ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u10	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Pavlikek, an accent, clear for the future. Well, despite the fact that the last few weeks of masks have been mandatory in closed spaces, many masks have fallen these days. Here I am sorry that my colleague Stier had just come out because a few days ago in an interview on the possibility of introducing bilingualism into the city of Vukovar, he said as a Christian he had no objection to the introduction of bilingualism or the Cyrillic, let's say as letters, and I also want to remind him that his democratic party had just voted the Istanbul Convention here in the highest legislative body of the Republic. I regret that such topics are spoken of by persons and after that, Mr. Grbin has also been referred to through social networks that speak of Cyrillic in the city of Vukovar by persons who come to the city of Vukovar at most once a year. I think we should ask us something of the Vukovar that we think about and what co-existence is in the city of Vukovar. The easiest thing from Zagreb is to talk about the situation of Vukovar, about the situation in Eastern Slavonia and come once a year, to feel sorry for the victims and then make statements like this. In the last few days, we have heard Prime Minister Plenkovic, in particular yesterday, mentioning on several occasions the word "modern sovereignty", wondering whether this 22 billion-euro debt is also a sort of modern sovereignty, whether modern sovereignty is at any cost the introduction of the euro that this government has planned, whether modern sovereignty and today the unresolved border disputes we have with Rep. Serbia, I was in front of the city of Vukovar yesterday at the famous Vukovar resort, Vukovar Ada, an island in the middle of the Danube that catastrianly belongs to the Republic of Vukovar and the former municipality of Vukovar but is still legally not resolved with the Rep. With Serbia. We also have a problem with Charengrad Ade, and we also have a problem of 9600 ha of a catastrian Croatian country belonging to Baranian municipalities on the left coast of Danube, which has not been solved today. Is this modern sovereignty, I wonder when was the last time the international border commission was held that even the rep representatives had potential. Serbia but there was no interest on the Croatian side. I think that just like this and similar things should be resolved by the Croatian government and can then be admired by the thesis of modern sovereignty. It's absurd that here today, for 20 years we haven't been able to reintegration... As we chaired the EU, we settled these border disputes. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And these border disputes create a major problem for people along the border. Those who are 200 km or 30 km from the eastern Croatian border may not know this, but it is a daily problem for fishermen in the area of the town of Vukovar, fishermen in the area of Sharengrad and Ilock, farmers in Baranja. And these are topics that Croatian sovereigns in this assembly of parliament will point out daily to resolve as soon as possible, in order to make life easier for our fellow citizens on the eastern borders of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u11	Thank you, Mr. Pavlovichk, I'll remember. ... Pavlik, I have to remember. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] And now we're going to move on to taking a stand on behalf of the Representatives' Club and the Independent Representatives' Club. The first is Mr. Marin Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u24	... colleagues and colleagues. [[Specially enabled.]] When an earthquake occurs, the first thing we do, we take people to safety. It's kind of a first, if we meet in a shaking building, first go out to safety, and then we think about how to rebuild the buildings, in the end, we've been talking about it here for days. The earthquake is currently happening in Mariščina, in Viskov, and we are all waiting somehow for what will happen, so people should be brought to safety, and bringing people to safety means that Mariščina must be closed immediately. Some say where we're going with the waste if Mariscina closes. We say 2015 and '16. While Mariščina was closed, a vehicle was trashed and taken care of outside the river and river ring. So it could be then, it could be again. In May of this year, Ekolus conducted the same tender, the registration number for the purchase of MV 0420 for the collection of waste for a shorter period when they plan to carry out the work on a sustainable.../incomprehensible/... on the maintenance of the plant. Some say if we change technology we'll have to pay back the money, pay the fines, and we say, so here we've been listening, from this assembly, how people are praised by diplomacy, and then make a story that you can and lead to no penals being paid. At the level of all cities and municipalities in the PGG urgently, new decisions should be made on municipal waste management. Some say it is not possible to find locations for the compost, and we say the mayor of the Primorje-Gorski County, Zlatko Komadina, said it is not a problem. Some say we have no money, and we say 760m euros are offered from the EU funds to address these waste management problems. Therefore, the money is there, we can look back at the County of Međimurje, we can look back at the island of Krk, they can, why can't we? Some say we have no place with plastics, and we say make an effort, encourage entrepreneurs, activate composts and sorters at the level of each unit of local self-government. Important information is that the Vishkova Municipal Council decided two years ago to close Mariscina, the same decision was unanimously confirmed by the County Assembly, so Minister Coric, what you promised the citizens of Viskov, that you would close Mariscina, the citizens expect you to do. As far as Rusha is concerned, 30 years of population of Rasha have a terrible and inhuman problem. I've met several times on several occasions there with people, dear colleagues and colleagues, it's very important here to be very plastic, the feces of Labin do not go channelling but spread through the ground towards Rasha, polluting the sources of drinking water at... and Fontagai. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The people of Rush are attacked in a literal sense, if I wanted to exaggerate, maybe I'd say environmental terrorism, but we won't go too far, and we need to talk about it openly, the channel is all dry, so where's the whole story from Labin going? Who's responsible? The water supply and disposal of Labinština, director of the Labin water line Mr. Dino Škopac, Tulo Demetlika, who was president of the waterworks assembly, Mayor of Labin, perhaps Mr. Valter Glavičić, who is the 3rd president of the waterworks assembly and Mayor of Labin. I don't know how long it takes for IDS colleagues to solve the sewer problem until 2030, okay? By 2040, okay? By 2070? The people of Rush no longer have patience. The questions will be raised very openly, they will go into demonstrations, all of those democratic and legal methods to protect human lives and end up poisoning the citizens of Rasa. We in the Bridge propose a third-degree purifier because the one that exists or doesn't work or we don't even know what's going on with it. That purifier would bring life to the position of the Plomin thermal power plant because that's where it's actually going. Fecal waters Labin should be placed in a pipe and the central purifier can be used in Rasha. The pump goes from Rasha to the Krapan mining tunnel, so there's no digging, no new investments, so even through the Krapan thermal power plant goes the whole story from Labin to Rasha. It can be done if you want, so let this be an appeal for citizens of our country in 2020, so the citizens of Rush to be given a normal sewer system, a normal drain system, and to protect the springs of drinking water. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u35	It will be Mr Davor Dretar, a representative of the Homeland Movement Club. I said right? Okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u36	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, here I am going to turn my focus a little bit off the budget, with loans and these very difficult topics, but I'm also going to talk about another very serious one. I'll start with just one little reminder, here we were two years ago marking how we were abandoned by one of the biggest Croatian singers and musicians Oliver Dragojevic and I believe Oliver is now alive to be in the same situation where many of his colleagues and fellow musicians are, so to face an exceptional number of canceled performances and, of course, everything that comes out of it, and primarily financial uncertainty, but I'm absolutely sure no one in Croatia would have thought to tell Oliver Dragojevic, so find a real job. Here, in the past few days we have witnessed one right we can freely say madness on social networks where most of all here I will mention both Nina Badric and some top music stars who are invited to come and dig potatoes or work in the field. So I would like to warn you that yesterday a press conference of the Association of Croatian Music Managers and Organisers was held in which members and members and many Croatian musicians and musicians and here in my hand I have a statement that you will not be angry with if I read to you if I only got into hands a few minutes ago. It is mostly an extremely unfavourable situation for the entire sector that we can call it creative music industries, for 6 months because of the disabled work of course due to these epidemiological measures and this unfortunate Covid-19 people have been left without any income. I know that everyone's primary perception is easy for Nini Badric she has money, but I ask you that all of us here, and our public really imagine if we are talking here not only about these call them stars but that this is about more than 15,000 individuals and their families who depend directly on this sector. So think about thousands of tone technicians, tons of masters, stage workers, monitors, electricians, security guards, drivers, various organizers and managers agencies. Let us not forget that they generate more than 10,000 different events as a modern tourism engine of content and events in our Croatia annually, and thus accumulated consumption of more than 10 billion kunas. So it's a serious industry that's now really brought absolutely to the edge of the collapse and it's complete. Not only are they not allowed to work, but there are six months of people standing without any income. Therefore, in this statement, I ask the Government of the Republic of Croatia to meet them and provide at least clear criteria for them to be able to function minimally while respecting all epidemiological measures because this is the only way to preserve 15,000 jobs in this sector. In order to be in charge of the existing financial support package for the maintenance of these jobs, measures 4,000 kuna and to require the Government of the Republic of Croatia to urgently open a specific credit line with the HBOR and the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development on the same principle as for tourism, so that the affected entrepreneurs can implement liquidity funds as soon as possible. Forming a special fund at the Ministry of Culture during the Covida-19 epidemic for all industry individuals who realised their work through contracts for a minimum income work to enable them and their families at least minimum conditions of existence. I believe, and I believe that you too believe that during the years of their work, all of these individuals have earned the status of their taxes and many humanitarian activities that we often forget and believe that this unfortunate Covida-19 is not to be followed by this tragedy of the Zagreb earthquake of the concert hall being filled with Croatian musicians and musicians who would participate in and help rebuild the Croatian capital through humanitarian concerts. So let's not forget them. There is something more to be asked and here I would appeal to the Croatian government to try to agree and tax relief by reducing VAT on tickets would also make it equally important to facilitate the functioning of the music or creative industry and the formation of funds at the Ministry of Economy or Tourism, and this fund would serve to support marketing activities events that will, in the future, when epidemiological measures stop or at least reduce the ability to promote such manifestations on the domestic and foreign media market. There, once again, I would like to ask the government of the Republic of Croatia and Minister Maric who, unfortunately, is not here. I have this paper ready for him and all of you whenever you hear a song on the radio or when a song makes a beautiful day for you to remember that someone is singing and currently not up to it because there is no life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u52	Now it is up to Mrs. Anka Mrak Taritash to be the position of the IP, Smart and Glass Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u53	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues. In recent days, there has been an increasingly loud debate on the National Civil Protection Centre, on its way of working, on how decisions are being made, and on who oversees these decisions. I think it is very important that we do not leave this issue to the case, or to forget, and that we here in the Croatian Parliament are aware of what is going on and what may be the consequences. And when I'm talking about headquarters here today, I have to point out just so we don't have any misunderstandings, I'm not talking about medical, epidemiological or any other assessment of headquarters. I'm not even talking about the justification or regularity of their decisions, I'm only talking about the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, about the division of power, about institutions and their roles and their mutual surveillance, and that's the part that I'm particularly concerned about. Our prime minister, who doesn't normally have a great past of respect for the institutions of the country whose government is chaired, gets pissed off every time someone mentions headquarters. But those who should be upset should be us citizens of Croatia. Now for months now, we have one body, this strange beak that I don't really know where it belongs, but it certainly doesn't belong where it is now, which is that it decides to abolish or reduce individual rights and the freedom of citizens without asking anyone about it, the exact opposite of the Constitution of our country. Hundreds of times have already been quoted. 16 and 17. The constitution, but it seems in vain. Freedoms and rights can only be limited by law, so where? In Parliament, and certainly not without the Parliament's participation, it's unacceptable. Art. The 17th is telling us again that the rights can only be limited by a two-thirds majority in the Parliament. And what exactly do we have? A group of people the public has no idea who they are who they are and who they've been dressing our lives for months. What they say is, it is placed above the law and above the constitution. Unless, of course, you're always a member of the HDZ. And your boastful stories about the government watching the headquarters and that it's settled and that we're even bothering him with it, the prime minister can hang a cat on a tail. It is not the role of the Government to oversee the work of a body or key chain, it is the role of the citizens of this country, or their representatives, in the hope of still the highest legislative body of Croatia. My colleagues and colleagues, regardless of political colors and various understandable differences, we must take matters into our own hands in this case. Our obligation is to protect the division of power, constitutionality and legality under the urgent need to listen to the most prominent Croatian constitutional experts and here in the Assembly to initiate procedures and mechanisms, if necessary legal changes, which will once and for all end this situation, so that bodies that should not at all take the powers of the highest institutions of our country. The National Civil Protection Centre is not the government of this country, and it is certainly not the Parliament. This is the moment when, as Parliamentarians at the beginning of this new assembly, we must stop all those who steal powers that do not belong to them, if we do not do so now, all our further discussions will be irrelevant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u54	Thank you. It is now up to Mrs Sabina Vosovac to present the views of the Club of Representatives of the SDP. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u87	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. A year ago, I appealed to the Ministry of Science and Education, not to apply the newly adopted Rules of Accommodation in the student dormitory to students with disabilities, more specifically PhDs, which would have been thrown out of the student dormitories on the street by applying the new rule of law to a very unfavourable position and more precisely, more specifically from 30.09 last year. Today, at that time, this application is respected and we have saved the fate of young people who do not have much, who, despite their disability, decide actually to further education, achieve, achieve the highest degree of academic education and thus contribute to Croatian society. Today, a year later, students with disabilities unfortunately face the same problem. For this reason, they addressed State Secretary Branko Ramljak on 6 April, asking her to take into account the fact that, in fact, the whole of Croatia was exposed to the pandemic, but also to the devastating earthquake in the City of Zagreb, which has made it impossible for them to search for housing. I note in this case that students with disabilities are in no way equal to finding private accommodation such as that for students who do not have disabilities, because they need special apartments adapted to persons with disabilities, and in the Republic of Croatia such housing units are slightly less than 5%. Ms. State Secretary, after applying to students with disabilities on April 06th, replied that while respecting the extraordinary circumstances of the pandemic, as well as the earthquake in the City of Zagreb, the time of accommodation in student dorms for disabled students will be extended until the beginning of the second semester of the academic year 2020/2021. That is, she gave them a deadline to find an alternative solution by March 01, 2021, and until then they can be in dormitories. However, after that, on June 2nd, a co-operative shift takes place, the same secretary of state disproves her e-mail to the students about going out, and calls for a regulation that prescribes all obligations for all students and says that they must leave their dormitory by September 30th this year, and explains that in the previous e-mail she sent them in the pandemic, on April 06th, she answered instinctively, emotionally, but that unfortunately they have to stick to that Regulation, therefore I am using this opportunity and appeal once again to the Ministry of Science and Education to make an exception this year and to extend or to adopt a decision to exempt students with the disability of the post-graduate, graduate and specialist studies from the Department Regulations for Accommodation in the Student House because of extraordinary circumstances which have made it impossible for them to resolve housing issues, which they were not able to influence, and to find a single system in the following year, and in order to stay with the following year. For example, this solution would be to provide them with some possible state or city apartment or space, and I am convinced that in the City of Zagreb we can find it, to adapt to their needs because the only thing they want is to actually, to be equal in society and to contribute to them as young people and educated people. We have to keep in mind the particularly vulnerable groups in society, I know that law, law, rules exist to respect them, but sometimes the human factor must be in front of the legal one. I will just point out that it is not good that and in this way we are sending a message to persons with disabilities in Croatian society that they are secondary, which is unfortunately a fact because I will remind them that at the time of the pandemic, the government has re-scheduled funds from the Fund for the Employment of Persons with Disabilities for the Development of the Economy, and the City of Zagreb has informed them recently that they remain without transportation for people with disabilities because they do not have a residence in the City of Zagreb. I ask you to go where we can meet these people who are not by their own fault put in an unfavourable position of the same reason we respect. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u88	Thank you. Thank you very much. The next is the Club of Representatives will be the HDZ, and on behalf of which the respected representative Davor Ivo Stier will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u97	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I noticed that some colleagues responded to one of my statements, to one of the answers I gave in an interview at the beginning of this week on Cyrillic, the first reaction, though, was from a colleague of the Grbs on social networks and I did not intend to react to it, I did not intend to engage in the party process in the SDP. Today, however, the question was mentioned by my colleague Pavliček, and because of the archives, since it was said in this high house, I would like to mention once again, indeed the Cyrillic as a letter as such is not and cannot be disputed and it also bears the name of a saint, a Cyrillic as a symbol used as a symbol of large-serb politics, that is, the problem. That's what I said this week, that's what I said on October 26th in an interview in the Evening List, that's what I said before, and even when we organised in the European Parliament the first ceremony in the fall of Vukovar in the European Parliament. So the continuity of these messages, the continuity of a policy that wants to build a culture of peace on the basis of justice and on the basis of truth. It is a policy that some may agree with, which some may criticise, but that is, a policy that is both democratic and state-of-the-art. So neither I nor my HDZ colleagues are involved in the issue of sovereignty, in the matter of patriotism, nor will we be given cover. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u98	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u102	It is now Mrs Katarina Nemet's turn to present the position of the IDS Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u103	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs come from Istria in which, despite all the difficult circumstances, there is still a relatively successful tourist season. Tourist arrival, overnight and consumption figures cannot be measured with previous years, but the situation is, most tourist employees will agree much better than expected. We hope that this positive trend, despite the ongoing uncertainty, will continue in the coming season. In a literal daily struggle to get the most out of the new circumstances, tourist workers are faced with a number of new problems they are trying to solve in walking, and they are doing very well so far. But there are still other problems present for years that this coronary crisis has only further apostrophe. First of all, I will highlight the great tax burden that has put the tourist Croatian brand in an unfavourable position in relation to competition from other tourist countries for years. A further reduction in VAT rates on accommodation services and reducing and equating tax rates to catering services is something that we should seriously think about whether we want to give Croatian tourism such a straw of salvation in this unprecedented crisis. I therefore appeal also to the Croatian government to show good will and understanding, to find ways, and certainly before the next tourist season, to take concrete steps towards the fiscal discharge for which our tourism is crying out. One of the problems in the tourism sector that I want to point to on this occasion, which has been particularly updated over the past few weeks is the non-reporting of guests especially in so-called. Non-competitional accommodation. It is about owners of apartments and holiday houses, foreign and Croatian citizens. These persons have a legal obligation to apply as tourists and pay a tourist tax at a discount of as much as 70%. Despite these favourable conditions, however, many of them have not reported their stay for years and do not pay the fee, thus significantly cutting public budgets both local and state. Since the pandemic has helped control the border crossings, many tourist communities have registered double and triple the number of guest registrations in non-competitional accommodation compared to the same period last year. In some areas it is a 15-ac share and more than one percent of the total tourist traffic achieved. The citizens of the Republic of Slovenia who have forced this decision to return to their country at the border must justify staying in Croatia, for example by staying in our country. It is ironic, therefore, that the situation on this issue is being brought into order collaterally thanks to measures imposed by another country for a very different reason for the pandemic of covida-19. However, he should be aware that as soon as the crossing of state borders of things is normalised again, the situation has confirmed that the existing legal frameworks that regulate this issue are not adequate and effective and that they need to be changed. What the new adequate legislation should provide is certainly an opportunity for powers and autonomy to be monitored and sanctioned by black-door accommodation to municipalities, cities and local tourist communities. I say doorways because it worked very well there by the end of the 1980s, when these jobs were done very effectively by auxiliary tourist inspectors in the direction of the municipalities at the time. I think it would help bring this down to local and regional level with a proper legal framework in many ways to address this situation for multiple benefits. It is therefore another segment so much needed decentralisation that we in the IDS have always advocated, and we will continue to do so in this mandate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u104	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u1464	As we announced yesterday, we're going to discuss the point of the MIP report today, so I'd like to ask Mr. Robert Jankovics to file a report, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u1465	Dear Vice-President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, MIP HS at its 3rd session held on 30 July 2020. Considered the written request of Representative Josip Salapic of 30 July 2020. informing the President of the HS that he has put his mandate to rest for the conduct of the Secretary of State in the Government of the Republic of Croatia which is incompatible with the conduct of the agent's duties within the meaning of the provision of Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Nine. Law on election of MPs in HS. HDZ in accordance with Article 1(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013. No. 42st century 2. The law on election of MPs in HS has been designated by Maja Grba Bujevic as deputy representative Josip Salapic. The commission found that the law laid down the conditions for the start of the stay of the parliamentary mandate for Josip Salapic, as well as the conditions for the start of the behaviour of his deputy deputy, Maja Grba Bujevic. No discussion of the MIP based Article. 9, 11 and 42. The law on election of MPs in HS unanimously proposes making a decision on the standstill of MPs and the start of acting as deputy deputy MPs. On 30 July, the term of office of representative Josip Salapic, acting in accordance with Article, begins to rest. 9th century 2. The Rules of Procedure of HS shall begin to act as deputy representative of Maja Grba Bujević on 30 July 2020.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u1466	I thank the President of the Commission. I'm opening a debate on this report. No one's answering. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on that when the conditions are met. As you were informed this morning, tomorrow we will continue at 11.30 p.m. with the presentation of the position of the club representatives, and we would vote on the debated points at 12.30 p.m. Have a good afternoon. The session was interrupted at 15.10 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3109	Dear colleagues and colleagues, good morning. We continue with the work and foundation of art. 247. The Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget proposes that we conduct a joint discussion on the next 3 points. These are: - Final proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the Loan Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development in response to the crisis and support for recovery, second reading, P.Z. No. 3; - Final proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the Loan Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the Afterquake Reconstruction Project and Strengthening Public Health preparedness, second reading, P.Z. No. 4 - Final proposal of the Law confirming the loan framework agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the Council of Europe Development Bank for project LD 2056 (2020) – support for measures in the Republic of Croatia related to the pandemic of Covid-19 — public sector financing instrument, second reading, P.Z. No. 5.; The Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. 85 Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia. 207. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Pursuant to that Article of the Rules of Procedure, the laws which are approved in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia by international contracts are laid down as a rule in one reading. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Art. 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. I would now like to ask the motionary's representative to give us an additional explanation, with us is the esteemed Deputy Prime Minister and Finance Minister Zdravko Maric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3110	Thank you, well-respected President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. As the President of the Parliament, here, in the introduction and said, in accordance with our acts, confirming international agreements with international financial institutions, of course, goes through HS, in one reading and what has been in some way so far, we can say, in the usual circumstances, not to say, in normal circumstances, that is a point that would not attract any too much attention in terms of opening statements, nor in terms of the presentation of the clubs themselves or the representatives themselves. I hope that given the slightly more specific circumstances that are, that today we will still discuss these points a little more in detail and a little bit more broadly, and that is my intention that in this opening statement I am not only focusing on these 3 contracts but also in accordance with the provisions of the Law on the implementation of the State Budget for 2020 which, though, the 9th Assembly of the Croatian Parliament voted on two occasions, in March and in April, which includes, among other things, that the Minister of Finance is, among other things, in charge, so that both my and the obligation and duty is, not only the Croatian public but also the Croatian Parliament, specifically, the Committee of Finance and the State Budget, to report on the actions taken, taken, and so on the financing of the state budget, so here, this way, I will try to do so. We had the original budget for 2020 and its financing account, I would say in one very pleasant environment after 4 years of balanced budget, 3 years of budget surplus, so, surplus, general government budget, where each year we exceeded our original projections and forecasts. For this year for the first time, we planned a surplus of the general government budget of about a billion and a half million kuna in terms of, among other things, continuing this trend. The total financing account amounted to HRK 30.5 billion, which involved practically full refinancing, so not financing because it was surplus or surplus, but refinancing of bonds' maturity, vault records, loans from some previous periods. For this year, I'll just remind you we had a few bigger ones, like domestic bonds of 1 billion euros and 5 billion kuna. A large record of over a billion euros in the domestic market will reach the vault, as well as a large international bond in 7. I mean, a billion and 250 million dollars. Of course, it all got one other look and another perspective when the Covid pandemic came along, when, among other things, there was a lock-down of the economy, our projections at that moment, although they were still current, they were still official, we will update macroeconomic projections most likely at the end of August, early September. When we're done, of course we'll report to HS, but also to the public about it. However, what I am saying is, therefore, the projections, among other things, are the decline of economic activity, so the reflections on budget revenue cuts, and also on the increased needs of the wasteful side of the budget, mainly for health care, i.e. for measures to help and support the economy, led us to the fact that the planned deficit, so from the planned surplus, we go to the planned deficit of nearly 25 billion kuna, which must have had their own repercussions and on the financing account and the total financing account according to the law, i.e. according to the budget rebalancing and the State Budget Law, amounted to €63.4 billion for 2020. i.e., March, I will use this revenue and once again opportunity to thank all clubs and all MPs in the 9th meeting who have responded adequately to the government's initiatives and all our acts and regulations, i.e. the laws which, among other things, have been focused on supporting and helping the economy and citizens, both in the economic and health field, in the shortest possible time, among other things, voted and gave support that these measures can be revived as short as possible, and then, of course, we all know, what the effects and how it is today, about the situation. However, as regards the financing account itself, the 63.4 billion kuna at that point certainly sounded and it was a very large amount and it was very, very much of course both in the media and in the public space and among the professional public very much controversy in which and how to provide these funds. What we've already communicated, and it's not just communication that matters now, but more importantly what we've done, I'm going to try and explain right now. We have said that we want to make one truly Colloquitically stated under quotes attack on all possible markets at our disposal and that we want first to start from the domestic capital market, domestic financial markets which we believe, given the situation and liquidity and capitalisation and the general health of our financial system in this area, we can, as soon as possible, provide certain liquidity needs to take advantage of this opportunity and, in that time, prepare for the issue and exit to the international capital market, as well as our discussions with the EU and the European Commission, respectively, with international financial institutions on an international basis as regards this same source of funding. Knowing the procedures and knowing the state of affairs not only for our sake, but mainly because of these very international financial institutions, we knew it would take some time for these loans, loans to negotiate, structure and ultimately become operational. What was done by then before the outbreak of the Covid crisis was issued by the state on the domestic market for the first time on 20 years, 1 on 14 and 1 on 5 with historically low yields. This one at 5 was 025, 0.25% interest, 1% was interest on the 14th year bond, and 1.25% on the bond that we issued for the first time for 20 years. When the crisis broke out, many expected, of course, that there would be a significant growth in yields which, on the one hand, was reasonable, expected, perhaps I would say justifiably that some are so announced because both the international and local public perceived and the decline of economic activity and a very high share of service activities, any tourism, any transports, and as activities and branches of industry, or economies that are more affected by the crown, would have this, of course, and some kind of added repercussion to the expansion of so on. Risk premiums, therefore growth, additional interest growth. We issued the first bond and the first debt instrument on the domestic market in collaboration with the CNB and the domestic financial industry of a billion EUR 455 million at 7 years at an interest rate of 0.75%. I think that this interest rate and this manual confirms in some way that we have managed to save already in those first steps that our contributions or that our interest rates are not taking some unsustainable path up. At the same time, with domestic banks, we have achieved several bilateral arrangements to finance our needs. All total of around €1 billion. We also refinanced that large vault record with the domestic financial industry of EUR 1 billion. After that, we began to prepare in parallel with that and for the international capital market. In the international capital market I repeat once again there were many appeals, constructive, well-intentioned, and I welcome this and in any case thank all the main and professional public who, among other things, suggested that we should go to the international capital market as soon as possible at the very beginning of the crisis. We said a good preparation was necessary for such a date. At the same time, we knew that we would meet all the criteria and measures for entering the exchange rate mechanism 2. This is an extremely important indicator in the eyes of the international financial community, which is ultimately recognized in the various reports of the relevant institutions. We also managed to defend the Croatian credit rating that he was still according to the SMP and Moody, a pardon to the SMP and Fitch in the investment zone, and what followed was the end of practically our EU presidency we ratified or implemented a legislative procedure related to that so-called. The Shure Programme as well as other packages which were part of the first original European Commission package of EUR 540 billion for the EU or EU member states. What we may not have calculated so much at that time, and it must have been easy for us to propose, then a proposal, and yesterday in the Croatian Parliament, or in the Croatian Parliament, you discussed the report from the European Council, which was a recovery and resilience plan for the EU, a €750 billion plan of which €9.4 billion was allocated in some way, intended for the Republic of Croatia. All of this had its positive repercussions and we went to the international market and issued an 11-year bond of the largest amount of EUR 2 billion so far. A bond that is at an interest rate of 1.6 per cent, i.e. 1.5 per cent, which is in some way an indication that even on the international capital market, there has been no unconstitutional growth of yields and interest. I can freely and responsibly say everything I say is responsible for the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian public that we went to the international capital market a month earlier, the interest rate would be almost 1% more expensive than the conditions we set at the moment we went out. After that, we have another bond on the domestic market of about 5 billion kuna, and now we have actually these three loan contracts in front of you, about the loan. Before I come to them or go into the details of each of them, I can say that with today's day of that 61.4 billion kuna, the need for funding for 2020 over 56 billion kuna has been realised. So, at this point in time, at the end of the 7th month, I hope that the Croatian Parliament will ratify these three contracts tomorrow. In parallel, ratification remains in some other parliaments, or in some other legislative procedures of other Member States. We planned it in our financing account of 3 billion kuna, and we will in this way, which will happen according to all the information that we have from other EU member states, which will happen in the next few days, which we can say practically that here until the summer break and the summer break we have provided complete funding needs for 2020. I'm not a health professional or an epidemiologist, but even if I did, I don't think any of them can be sure about what's going to happen in the fall, in the fall, in winter and so on, but according to these findings, according to these indicators that we have at this point on the economic plan. I said we'd update macroeconomic projections in the next month, month and a half, and then we'll see what our new state of affairs is. However, according to this information that we have, with the ratification of these three loans, with the activation of the shur program, we have fully met our funding plan and we can certainly see for 2021. On the one hand, this budget is a major challenge, of course we will discuss it at the autumn session, but also next year's financing account we also have maturity on the domestic market of 6 billion kuna and on the international market billions and a half of dollars that reach the 3rd and 7th months respectively. As far as these three loans are concerned, so we're talking about the World Bank, two loans totaling $500 million, but I'm going to speak more in terms of the euro, so one is a loan that has one coloquial term that's development policy Loan or operation, so a development loan, for development aid of some kind, so it's a loan that has one general budgetary purpose. On several occasions, the Republic of Croatia has had similar loans in its recent past with the world bank, with a total of 275.9m euros, and its purpose is this, the general budgetary needs of financing. However, if the loan had occurred, certain criteria had to be met, certain conditions that we discussed with the World Bank teams were very intensively prepared and, finally, at the end of the 6th month, the World Bank Executive Directors Committee approved the loan. As far as the conditions are concerned, he is 14.5 years old with 5 years of starting, so the payment leaves in 2025 to 2034, the interest rate is variable, it is sum of two indicators. On the one hand, the six-month EURIBOR which is currently still negative with today's situation is minus 0.37 plus a fixed interest margin of 0.75%. I think that when we translate this into a language of real values and circumstances, of course, it's hard to project the values of the EURIBOR movement over the next 14.5 years, but according to these indicators now, it's about 0.3 to 0.35% interest at 14.5 years. I think you'll agree that these are very favourable conditions. As regards the second loan he is a little more specific for purposes and two days ago you had a debate in the Croatian Parliament or here on the Law on the Reconstruction of the City of Zagreb and the two counties, so that is exactly what the second part of the loan is for. It totals 183.9m euros. The terms and conditions are exactly the same as those of manuals, interest rates and all these other details, but we can also say that it is very favourable. As a project and as a loan there are three components in it, the first component is recovery and recovery after an earthquake of 165.5m euros. There are several sub-components, emergency interventions to protect public security, rehabilitation or reconstruction of health and education institutions, and a draft programme to support the restoration of residential facilities. The second component is the supervision and preparedness of public health 13.8m euros in total value. Two components, so-called. Case management therefore all that would actually strengthen the system of disease and equipment control, public health laboratories, epidemiological capacities for early detection and confirmation of new patients and the willingness of public health. The third component is project management of 4.6m euros. Finally, the Council of Europe Development Bank which I do not think has been in the Croatian Parliament for some time, but we have renewed our cooperation with it as from the level of the direct state budget, which from the level of HBOR. It is a valuable institution that has been working with us for many years and decades, and is also one of the most important institutions that we are working with and are in this 200m-euro loan. Its purpose is all related to the pandemic of covids, so measures to reduce the spread of infection, the purchase of protective equipment, the preservation of the wide availability of medical services, and the provision of support in the form of unambiguous loans. Remember that in the draft budget rebalancing, we said that we would unambiguously lend HZZO and units of local and regional (regional) self-government, given the also envisaged drop in income. So this 200 million euro is according to the following conditions this is a 12-year loan with a 3 year head start, an interest rate there are two options, one fixed which is 0.24% or variable again related to a six-month EURIBOR with 0.36% fixed margin. In translation, we can even say something even more favourable than this World Bank loan itself if we translate this variable interest into today's moment, it's interest literally zero, and on the other hand this fixed interest if we want to sort of figure out how to lock it in the next 12 years at 0.24%. Either way, we're talking about this first loan to each other. We're talking about its two components. I would like to thank all teams and the World Bank and the Council of Europe Development Bank and our teams for doing a very good job. I will take this opportunity just a few seconds to say that here today is with me and my fellow newly named chief state treasurer Ante Matijević, and among other things, the opportunity to get to know him better is that you will often see him during the 10th convocation of the Croatian Parliament mainly on budgetary topics. For the past year, he has personally been our representative at the World Bank. We were not so perceptive that we could predict the crown, but he, along with the executive director in our constitution in Washington and teams in Zagreb and Brussels, did the biggest job and most of the loans with the World Bank. I will also take the opportunity to publicly thank his predecessor, whom you have well met Ivana Jakir Bajo, who has done her entire career at the Ministry of Finance, HS voted for Vice Governor of the CNB, so she continues to serve the Republic of Croatia, but in any case she has put all of us together in the Ministry of Finance for the permanent purpose of this. One big thank you to her, too. Here I would stand, of course, in any case looking forward to your comments and discussion. But what I'm about to say as a closing statement, a few months ago, that 63.4 billion kuna really didn't sound nice or pleasant. Our both international image and reputation, and what we have done together over the past few years, has given us for, for the right to believe and hope that we will succeed, to meet all our funding needs, which is here with ratification of these 3 contracts, with ratification of the Shore instruments, we are practically ensuring fully and of course I am looking forward to having a constructive discussion on both the following instruments and on the next economic financial topics, as was the case two days ago on the Committee on European Affairs when we talked about the package and the recovery plan and the resilience. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3111	I thank the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance and we're going to the replicas now, there are 20 of them, the first fellow Bull is here.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3112	Thank you very much. Minister, I'd like to ask you what our citizens are most interested in. The season is a tourist bad, the workers are touristic in problems as well as seasonal workers and farmers, we have a large number of people who have huge loans, and they can't pay it back because they're not guilty of the coronary crisis as you say all the time. We know that the banks are solvent, we know that only for fees and commissions of 4 billion kunas sucked out of citizens' pockets and of course at this point what citizens expect to have at all money to survive, that's what MOST has proposed in the last term, and we expect that decision from you because Slovenia has made, will you bring the moratorium to interest and credit? It's crucial for our citizens at this point to survive at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3113	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3114	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So a topic that is extremely important and I think we've been dealing with it, I'd say, at the very beginning of crisis management. You know that at that moment practically on the side of all banks came a public declaration that they would approve moratories to start at least 3 months, and depending on, of course, the development of the situation and extend further. What I can say is, those banks that are somehow under management, or how the Republic of Croatia or government can influence, there is, above all, HBOR, I can say that HBOR has extended this moratorium to 6 months, those who are harder hit to 9 and as far as the tourist sector is concerned to 15 months. What's important with the approval of the moratorium and I'm going to take this opportunity and your replica that's very good, and this way again, we're going to put a constructive positive pressure on the banks, not just on moratorium, what's crucial in weeks. which follows are new crafts, so new loans. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3115	Comrade Bartulica, you can't replicate now, you could replicate the exposure that was introduced. Now it's my colleague Zekanovic's turn, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3116	Your Honor, yesterday I asked the president of the government who he didn't know how to answer, you might know. What about the EU's revenue side? In fact, you mentioned 7 hundred billion euros that the EU shares or raises the loan. How will these funds be raised in the EU budget? Is it through the increase in membership fees, so also the Republic, is it through imposing some pan-European tax, money no one has in the safe, money is not printed, money has to be obtained in some way? Here's a simple question, yesterday the president of the government couldn't give me an answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3117	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3118	Thank you very much, Your Honor. The Prime Minister knows very well, so these 750 billion euros will be issued by the EU to the bond on the international capital market, so through debt, the idea is to pay it off by 2058. I think that given the credit rating and the EU's own status it will be safe under the most favourable conditions possible, and then all further conditions and circumstances will be at the moment of issue itself. This is as far as the 750 billion-euro package is concerned, therefore, unlike the multi-annual financial framework that continues on the same system as it has been so far that Member States through so-called so-called ‘the European Union’. The system of own resources shall be paid by part of the VAT, paid by part of the customs duties, paid by part of the agricultural and their fees. The debate has also opened on some additional revenues, and among other things in the package, as you could see in that report, since 2021, the introduction of own resources based on unrecycled plastic waste has been envisaged, and since 2023 the introduction of a mechanism for border adjustment of carbon emissions. All Further Like digital ones, come on, I'll give you a good answer later. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3119	You got it. Comrade Grmo, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3120	Dear Minister, you said you hoped to resolve the funding issue with this, but given these circumstances he mentioned already and my colleague Bulj appears to me people from our south, from Korčula, traffic is somewhere at 25% of last year's, and I think the problems will be very big. So, and that the impact on our economy, and therefore the budget will be very large, no one can be immune to this kind of blow and this kind of crisis, but our economy is not ready for a much weaker impact, and here I see the problem of not implementing structural reforms, not a single reform of this government has been implemented, it has not been done in reducing the state apparatus, cutting the charge, it has not encouraged our entrepreneurs and businessmen, and how do you comment? Are you sure the situation will be as optimistic as you announced?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3121	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3122	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So here I am, all my exposure, as well as these replicas, and throughout this entire period of the epidemic, I have tried without any characterization or valuable courts about this very cold, sober and clear, unequivocally present both to you and to the Croatian public. So I speak once again at one point the need to finance 63.4 billion kunas are almost fully met. And I said that no one can predict the development of the situation further, but I think this is the way we have shown, firstly, an adequate and timely reaction to the crisis mainly not only in the health care but also in the economic part, we have shown that we have our own strengths but we are fed up with some of the following steps. It's hard to speak hypothetically about these or those relationships, you mentioned tourism, we'll probably refer during the debate and a little bit more so I'll take the opportunity and then give a little bit of our latest information that we have on tourism not only in the 7th month but in total, there will be opportunities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3123	Here you go, fellow Shower.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3124	The Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, quite the opposite of what his colleague Grmoja says, nothing in his business life and so does the financial life of the state. Thus, neither can these loans which today are ahead of us nor the conditions that the Croatian state has achieved through negotiations with financial institutions and lenders in these loans, which are indeed the best that can be achieved on the market at this time. It should be made clear that these loans will at this time preserve the stability of the state budget, allow the continuity of Croatian economic recovery policies, our health system and in the context of the Covid-19 crisis and the context of the earthquake in Zagreb. Al should also say that they are the result of a continuous economic policy by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, all the tax measures of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the continued surplus of the state budget, the strengthening of the credit rating at the extreme of Croatia's entry into the European Course Mechanism 2. So that or.../incomprehensible/... we can talk, but at this point it's an optimum of the best which we could achieve based on the competences we've had so far. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3125	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3126	Thank you very much. Here, I'm going to use this replica to bring myself to that previous answer. This year, from the beginning of the year to today, we follow on a daily basis and the number and value of fiscalized accounts. I think today the value of fiscalized accounts is where and where the relevant indicator is. In the already mentioned segment of tourism, of course we know well that tourism is not the only branch, but it is often referred to and referred to from the beginning of the year 46% is a lower value of fiscalised accounts compared to the same period of the previous year with yesterday. But what if we can say again without intending to make something beautiful or create some unfounded positive atmosphere, the fact is that things have improved. Of those 90% declines in the 4th month we are now in the July month which, in terms of total income, is much more productive at minus I will say under quotes only 39%. That sounds very big but still relative to the total amount 39%. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3127	Comrade Troscott, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3128	The Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Minister Maric, our question is about these loans, two of which are actually the following. The first thing we saw was that it was related to these credits that we received from the international reconstruction for the development of whether, under the same conditions, you would give these loans to Croatian entrepreneurs, given that these loans are related to the Croatian budget so that we could help our entrepreneurs too. And the second question is about something that you didn't mention in your presentation, about the health contract, is that that 200 million is actually 90% of the funds that the Bank of the Council of Europe approves of the other 10% we have to finance ourselves, given that the total project is EUR 225 million. Ours, ours, ours worrying is that it refers to medical, medical supplies. Which protection mechanisms will be introduced to ensure adequate medical equipment Get it? [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3129	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3130	I'll try it really in a minute as soon as I can. As far as HBOR is concerned, it is always so now that there are elections in the financing of international financial institutions with the least possible margin, and in these circumstances we will bring the margin further down, so it is aware of what the cost of processing these loans would say, so this component of our own in total loans, because HBOR as long as it has its own credit activity as it now has along with HAMAG, however, as far as it extends to the economy, it must be inclusive and commercial banks they have their own businesses and networks and analysts, etc. However, even in this situation, commercial banks have slightly more interest through certain and different types of programmes that we have negotiated with the European Commission over the past months, there are also opportunities to subsidise part of the interest entirely. You heard yesterday was among other things the presentation of a programme concerning creative industries and cultures that a 100% guarantee of a country that could be reduced. I'll answer the second part of the question later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3131	My colleague Peovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3132	First of all, we are interested in the medium-term projections of public debt growth in view of the coronary crisis, the fall in economic activity, the fall in tax revenues. So, the loan will have to come back regardless of the low interest rates remaining the return of the principal debt, and if there is no significant economic growth, and in the medium term this will certainly not be the case, the debt will have to be returned either from the tax increase or from the cutting of public spending, meaning less will be for investments and so on. The possibility of more favourable refinancing is almost zero because interest rates are at the lowest levels anyway. Loans, therefore, arrangements of this type are known for being related to the requests of creditors for the implementation of the so-called so-called so-called "Seconds". structural reforms mean privatisation, labour rights cuts, public spending cuts, social transfers. So the purpose and purpose of these loans will not be to change the unfavourable economic structure. We want to know how it's gonna affect people's lives.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3133	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3134	Thank you well-respected MPs, so here's part of your replica, of course, I can agree because that's the way of thinking that we have, of course, every debt and every loan, every bond must have some sort of sustainability in terms of payment. A similar question and a similar theme was being addressed in 2016, and then we were faced with the situation, for years previously growing public debt came to some levels of over 85%, and then we presented the programme we are still holding. So, Covid, regardless of what will affect the one-time increase in public debt, will not distract us from our focus on continuously reducing the share of public debt in GDP. It has been an average of about 3 percentage points for the past 4 years, and you know how we did it for the budget part. So, a rational, sharp, transparent control of budget spending within the limits, and you know for a fact that at the very beginning of the mandate we have launched a tax discharge project. With similar principles, we will continue to lead.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3135	Thank you. Comrade Cellic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3136	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister Maric. You pointed out that the health and public administration reform is the priorities of this government's programme, we are facing the final proposals of the three approval laws of the Loan Treaty, and I would briefly refer here to the empowerment of the public health system and what my colleague Troscott was saying. I don't think these loan contracts are in any way related to the problem of paying the costs of the drugs, but rather to strengthening the preventive public health system and empowering the lab. I will also mention eight major health institutions are seriously damaged by an earthquake in the City of Zagreb. The damage to HZZ as a commanding institution is greater than 100 million kuna and I think that the right to reform will happen when we move from a curative point of view to a preventive approach in health.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3137	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3138	Thank you very much. So here's the esteemed representative as you yourself referred to the previous replica of the Troscotts, so in this loan from the CEB you said well there is that we can call it a national component, but 20 and a few million euros and you know well how many Republics have singled out during the crisis and for the acquisition of equipment and respirators and some other needs in the healthcare itself. All the time we've been very careful, of course you know it wasn't very pleasant and comfortable when there was a shortage of certain protective equipment, but to make everything transparent, that Croatian citizens don't have to fear for their money or taxpayers' money, and as such we will continue on. What's important is what you've said to your esteemed representative, health reform is clear to everyone, not only to you who are from the health system but I'd say to the entire population, we've all very well known what the values and quality of the health system are, but we're also aware of the financial unsustainableness. So we have to put these two things under the same umbrella and make a significant step on that trail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3139	Thank you. My colleague, Mr. Tarritash, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3140	Thank you very much. I may be bound to the replica of fellow Cellic, or what was the last thing he said about prevention. The whole world after lockdown found itself in a really invisible situation. It is very logical why these loans are, but what we should ask ourselves now is Croatia lives on loans. Among other things, this lockdown showed the problem of not developing the economy and everything else. It seems to me that this has become a key moment to try and move on. So this government's responsibility to see what to do further because after a month or two of lockdown worlds has proved that the world's economy doesn't support it all together. We if we'd continued to lockdown we'd all be hungry together. I therefore think that this moment in which we need to examine ourselves and say that prevention is important or important is to start developing all branches of the economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3141	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3142	Thank you very much. Dear MPs, so I can also agree with your remarks, I think we are aware of how self-sufficiency in the food area in the protection area is, for example, health care, transportation, some of the key strategic branches that have proved to be extremely important here in the covido. However, I will also refer to that first part of your replica, I think that we have shown in 4 years that Croatia can live without additional borrowing, so completely when you have balanced public finances, when you have an surplus in the budget the only borrowing instruments that we have issued to the international domestic market have been to refinance the commitments made from some past. I will also briefly refer to health care, so at this point we have reached a level of nearly 10 billion kuna of total liabilities, but what is important is that these obligations continue to accumulate at the monthly level, so one step must be made to stop this growth of these commitments, and then at the same time to meet all of our obligations that they are. However, in any case, responsible behaviour and public finances management can be lived without additional borrowing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3143	Thank you. Now it's my friend Zurovec's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3144	Honored Minister. My question is in principle whether you are satisfied with the expenditure side of the budget i.e. Do you think that this spending party could be cut a little bit more? And on the other hand, I'm curious about where the debt money will be found according to the big drug that I've realized is over 4.2 billion kuna, you can correct me if I'm wrong about the number. We should also point out that our decline from tourism is quite enormous. If I'm not mistaken in April there was a 99% falcon, it was already around 75 in May, something now, let's fix June, although the first half wasn't very optimistic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3145	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3146	Thank you very much. Your Honor. This last part was on tourism or something? Yeah. As far as spending foreign budgets are concerned, I don't think any finance minister can ever be completely satisfied with the distribution either, but we do a lot of things. I'll just remind you, at the beginning when we had a redistribution then in the budget rebalancing of 7 billion kuna we had an additional need for expenditures that we didn't originally plan, to support economics for paying part of the salaries and for health care. These 7 billion were found in a way that all government colleagues found savings in their portfolios, so we simply ran the so-called months. We say in English the zero baset budgeting so from the bottom up, we're only doing what's necessary and that's what I think the principle we need, we can say at this point constantly stick to, but to which we should tend as such. As far as tourism is concerned, that's what I said at this point in July alone, 39% is less fiscalized accounts, a total of around 46% since the beginning of the year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3147	Now it's time for my colleague Bencic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3148	The Honorable President of the Parliament, the Honorable Minister. I have two specific questions, first of which is one of those 7 billion that went to the health care fund, but also those companies that ended up with a large amount of profits in 2019, including those that pay that profit. I wonder if you will ask those who are paying the profits for 2019 for a refund of support and for support to reroute them to where we have mostly taken them, and that is the Fund for Employment Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities that have been taken from that Fund significant funds. My second question concerns the general plan to actually restructure the debt, which is whether you worked at the Ministry of Finance to simulate the possibility of restructure the debt that is older and has higher interest rates, in terms of how much it would save if we could reprogramme some significant part of that debt to know how much we can leave with some of the resources that we can now put into action. recovery and recovery activities. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3149	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3150	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So as for this second part of the replica, I'm going to start with it, so from the 1st day of our term, we've put a very big focus on credit rating, on ours, let's call it image, reputation, first of all from the interest rate perspective. Here, just take for example the last bond to be processed in this short time. With these 2 billion euros, we refinanced a bond that sang a 10-year bond of $1 billion, a pardon, a billion and 250 million, at an interest rate of 6.675, and we issued a new bond at an interest rate of 1.5%. So that 4 and something percentage point difference, to that amount, I think we can easily figure out what that savings is. Finally, in 2015, then, in some ways, it was the peak of the total expenditure on interest paid from the state budget, 12, almost 12 billion kuna. Today, that amount is slightly below nine billion. I'll always say that the space for progress is even more. We'll figure out the first part.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3151	Comrade Stier, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3152	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, from the first part of your presentation, it can be concluded that for the development of the Croatian economy, one responsible fiscal policy is essential, and then to make good use of our membership in the EU and other international institutions. When both problems were achieved, some key problems began to be resolved, the budget balanced, and the balance of payments traditionally in the deficit, the surplus was achieved. Of course, this pandemic is a big blow to the global economy, and so is ours. The EU responded in a way that those most developed countries have now finally agreed to the EU Commission come to the international capital market on behalf of the EU as a whole. The decision was raised in a public debate, and even in this parliamentary debate, whether it is good or what the quality of the decision is, so it would be important for Croatian citizens to hear how crucial it is for our recovery What if we didn't have such decisions from the EU? [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3153	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3154	Thank you very much, Your Honor. This particular element that you mentioned we very often apostropheed at the beginning of the crisis. You're so-called. The deficit of twins, both the budgetary and the current account of the balance of payments were what we had at the beginning of the last financial economic crisis and one of the reasons why this recovery lasted so long. The situation in which we entered this crisis is still reversed, regardless of all the challenges, but also the balanced budget, surplus on the budget items, as well as on the current balance of payments account, has given us the trust and hope that we can put into operation a number of measures that were really in some way and unimaginable by then, so I will refer to the previous question, and this support measure that we have defined, I would say that it will be as long as possible, that 600 and a few thousand workers are the beneficiary of these measures, however, during the time we had to tighten some criteria, so, among other things, and this part of the disbursement is obtained if you are users of the support measures Not just in... [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3155	My colleague Jackov, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3156	Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. According to the loan agreement between our state and the bank, the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the initial fee is 0.25% of the loan amount and is paid out of the loan. Tell us, it's important that the public knows what the fee is for unpunished assets and what it can actually mean.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3157	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3158	Thank you very much. So what's important, these fees are as well as the overall criteria, i.e. the overall conditions indeed, I would say very competitive with regard to some alternatives, both in commercial and in some other markets, but what's important is that the processing fee, or for that request, is something that we will pay, however, the compensation for the unused amount of credit, will not even come to it because these are the amounts already provided for in the draft state budget, or its funding plan. A good part of these funds, in particular this part that we just referred to and with the CEB is as such, and we know well that we have already given the unambiguous loans to both HZZO and local and regional self-government units, as well as the purchase of a number of equipment, so in any case, the overall conditions, can say that they are very, very competitive in the circumstances as they are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3159	Now they'll be replicating a colleague of the Greeks, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3160	Thank you, Mr. President. I had to correct my intention a little bit, given that this was the story of the 750 billion fund, I don't think there's anything else you've pointed out here the whole time. So as a guarantee component on the side of the debtor, which is the EU is determined to increase its own contribution by about 0.6% of GNI. So gross national income. This raises the total component from 1.4 to almost 2% of GNI. You know what theoretically that means? If I'm right, I think I am. That's what the documents say. This means that in some theoretical case, Member States, some less, some more, can contribute with 2% of GNI budgets, in order to repay that loan, and that is an important amount greater than that which is now in the Republic of Croatia's budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3161	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3162	... Thank you very much. [[Specially enabled.]] The proposal was at 2, but it was much lower, and you just said, when you sum up these two numbers that you mentioned, that's significantly below 2%. Our assessment in the next 7 years because here we are talking about the multiannual financial framework is an average payment of about 650m euros per year. Compared to existing ones moving somewhere at about 450 to 500, this increase is, however, when not so significant, when you take the entire balance sheet as much as is available, 650 million euros times 7g. in relation to the financial perspective which amounted to EUR 12.7 billion in the multiannual financial framework and, moreover, what Mr Stier mentioned, the Recovery Fund, etc. The 9.4 billion-dollar reaction of the EU, so the balance in terms of what we will pay and what we stand as the potential of withdrawal is extremely positive for the Republic of Croatia. But what we said the other day on the board, it's up to us, we're taking on a huge responsibility all together. to as large an absorption as possible. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3163	Comrade Bačić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3164	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, on 12 May, 6 days before the elections, and before the disbanding HS, we brought about a rebalance of the state budget. Then we established the deficit of the state budget for this year at a level slightly less than 25 billion kuna and then from the opposition, I remember very well, it was claimed that it was actually pre-election rebalancing, and as the real rebalance awaits us in the autumn, as the rebalancing is short and short breath and, in fact, HDZ then unresponsibly claims that the situation will be better than it will be. Well, now a few months after the rebalancing, and also by the basis of our announcement that we remain at the deficit of the state budget of 25 billion, and in light of the fact that these days you said that the tax revenues of the Republic of Croatia are only 14 to 15% lower than last year, whether this government still remains in those positions. Or is this rebalancing as they predict it going to be much harder and worse? [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3165	Thank you, Comrade Bacic. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3166	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Well, thank you very much for the replica to remind us of these circumstances as well. This is another in a series of indicators as to how responsible and transparent we are in any of our actions, so unbound at that pre-election time, we went extremely responsibly and this projection and the decline of GDP and its components and regarding the budget it remains current. My intention, yesterday I told the media and cameras in no way, so of course it won't be in front of HS to make anything beautiful, this year is ugly enough to make it difficult and beautiful. However, we must, of course, be transparent about all the data. As for the total revenue side of the budget, since the beginning of the year it has dropped between 14% and 15%, VAT is somewhere around 15%, contributions are about 10%. However, over the past few weeks and months, the situation has been slightly better, so here is the mentioned indicator of tourism actually suggests. But within a month, a month and a half, the government will most likely come out with an updated macro projections, so we'll talk about it a little bit more. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you very much. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3167	Comrade Miletić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3168	President-in-Office HS, respected ministers, fellow MPs and fellow MPs. Minister, my question to you is in the government program where it's being talked about done, about the blocked, there are only three sentences, we've already talked about it, we're going to be coming fast, we know that there's going to be a crisis, we're going to see to what extent, can you in one way guarantee the Croatian public, we're talking more than 260,000 blocked, we're going to extend the particular story to the moratorium on top, we have a moratorium on loans and on interest, and we're going to re-incentive people to spend, not to live in fear of what will be, are we going to have bread? Here, thank you for, for, please answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3169	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3170	Thank you very much for asking. So I think the problem and our relationship with the blocked throughout the mandate has been permeated, what you say three sentences or how many sentences in this programme have been in the previous programme as well. However, what is most important are measures and activities. You know that we've also passed a one-time write-off law, we've written down 10,000 in the programme, the HDZ programme and the government at the time, said it would be up to an average net salary, so in the translation of about 6,000 kunas, we've written off 10,000, we've changed the law on implementation of the implementation of the implementation of the budget, where we've practically led to some people who have had long and old errands that we've been standing on the shelves, and at the beginning of this crisis, we've brought in three months, and recently, three more months of delaying the implementation of this. However, what is important to say is that in this whole problem we must nevertheless protect both financial stability and financial discipline and accountability and, of course, we must not ignore And we don't ignore the blocked, but of course there are those citizens who despite all their difficulties. [[Intruder: Thank you]] They settle their obligations neatly, so financial stability is also very important to us. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3171	Comrade Škoro, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3172	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, when the crisis occurs then an individual, a family, an entrepreneur, a businessman, and even a state in the ultimate line or has the strength to get out of that crisis and deal with it or not. If we don't have enough of our own strength as our country doesn't have because our economy is unfortunately not so strong, then we're in debt, we're assessing under what conditions and what, most importantly, we're going to do with the money we're in charge of, are we going to use that money to get back these 30.5 billion that you said at the beginning that we've made a commitment. What I'm interested in, or of course we're going to invest it in that economy to develop it a little bit, to help him. If, a very simple calculation, if 300 billion kuna is gross debt, if 400 billion is our GDP, we're at 75% level, right, of that debt, are you afraid that by the end of the year if our GDP falls 11%, it means some 350, and we get a rise in In fact, this whole thing, so that for the first time, the public debt will pass over to us. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Total GDP? [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3173	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3174	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Our last projection is 86.7% of GDP at the end of the year. It calculates both the economic activity and the deficit and our funding needs, so all together it is this projection that, to refer to what the previously respected representative said in her replica, so regardless of what will come to this one-time increase in public debt, we will continue her path of reduction and that is what is most important, among other things the vis-à-vising international financial industry, but mainly us, but here I will somehow connect your replica with the replica of my colleague Stier. You are right both in public finances and in corporate and private investments or private finances. Not every debt is like such a problem, or question, of what it is spent on. I think that this debt and this rebalancing account has its own justification because if it hadn't been for him and we couldn't launch all these measures, I believe that today, unfortunately, we would have counted in tens of thousands of new and additional unemployed, but here this story with the EU fits significantly well in this whole issue... framework. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3175	Thank you. Comrade Peric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3176	The Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Vice President of the Government. Well, here are the witnesses that even during the rebalancing, and during all the other debates, the opposition has often warned that you are not doing enough, that it is not timely, that the effects are not achieved, but quite the opposite. All that he did, starting with those savings that you found inside the budget, and after that, the changes in the budget itself proved to have responded at the right time, for the right measures. Moreover, what gives us faith is that, during this six-month period, the Council's presidency has been achieved and that the frameworks of the European budget itself have been achieved, as well as measures of 9.4 billion euros that we can very much help our economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3177	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3178	Thank you very much. Dear MPs. So I think you've kind of summed everything up, especially this part that I think is extremely important, is not only relevant to adequate measures but also to their timing, as well as everything in life, and in crisis situations for the economy, it's very important and designed appropriate measures, but in time you put them into function. I said in the opening statement there was also the Croatian Parliament played its part, all clubs and the positional and opposition in the 9th session that as soon as possible we changed certain legal regulations and regulations that would allow us to be able to put such a function in place. And I think we've shown that we know each other and we can deal with the crisis. Every debate, every criticism constructively and the opposition should take into account, however, here is exactly what you yourself said as colleagues Bačić earlier shows that all of this was said at the very beginning and achieved, or that it was true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3179	Now it's time for fellow Pavić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3180	The Honorable President of the Parliament, the Honorable Vice President of the Government. Congratulations on this package, I think it's a great success. I also remember when we were working on a package of government measures for March, it was also for April, and I think it was a key component of responsibility. The responsibility not to enter the package without knowing where the money will come from. I think the key was, too, not as much as you have communicated to the public the observed credit rating situation, that it is preserved, that it is the consequence of the stability of responsibility in the management of public finances in the last few years, but an even less known component of the swap credit with the European Central Bank before entering RM2. I think it contributed to our credit rating, and then it contributed to having a package like this on the Parliament table today. Can you further clarify this swap loan and what significance it had in stabilising public finances?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3181	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3182	Thank you very much. Your Honor. Well, very important, was this, among other things, significant improvement in the perception of the Republic of Croatia's reputation on the international market. Credit rating agencies are looking at a lot of things, but among other things when they saw and recognized that Croatia will meet the criteria for foreign exchange exchange exchange exchange exchange exchange rate mechanisms 2, that we will meet the criteria for entry into close co-operation with the European Central Bank, and then on top of that came the instrument for the first time and the CNB and the Office of the Prime Minister and the Ministry of Finance have worked on this for a longer period of months to implement among other things something that is a signal and a strong lever that we have another additional instrument in the specific case of defence of the kuna course which may potentially come under some kind of pressure from the depression, taking into account the state of debt and debt structure and the economy and citizens and cause some additional problems. We kind of actuated it, among other things, with that instrument. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3183	Comrade Petyr, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3184	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Minister. Each euro invested will receive 4.5 euros from the EU, with 22 billion euros and these loans should help implement the measures to mitigate the crisis. What I'm interested in is, can we expect these funds to support and pay subsidies, to increase the coverage of poor citizens by free health insurance of income support for elderly people without income, especially those living in rural areas, and how do you estimate that these funds will contribute to the overall mitigation of the effects of the economic shock resulting from the coronary virus?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3185	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3186	Thank you very much. Dear MPs. You said well, therefore, 22 billion euros which are a really great opportunity, and we need to be very clear there, again I say cold-blooded, without excessive euphoria and in the best possible way to prepare ourselves, we have weeks and a few months ahead of us to prepare in the right way, to approach European institutions, the European Commission and the European Council in order to make the best and quality of the programme that involves structural reforms, so this resistance and investment is both public and private sectors, but it always sees what is written amongst other things in the RU Constitution, which is that RH and social state. So the care and care of needs in any segment that you are also instructions is certainly something that will be recognized as being so focused in terms of the implementation of these measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3187	Thank you, Deputy Prime Minister. Before we go further, just information for tomorrow to plan your day. So we'll continue at 11:30 by taking the club stand at 11:30, and the vote will be at 12:30, so 11:30 clubs, 12:30 votes. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? If not, I am opening the debate and first in line is respected colleague Vesna Vucilović on behalf of the House Movement Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3188	The Honorable President of the Assembly, colleagues and fellow MPs, ladies and gentlemen, Minister Maric presented to us not only these three new financial arrangements but also one review of the financing of this situation which we have heard many times already is unprecedented not only here in Croatia and Europe but throughout the world. These new three financial arrangements, as so far, have been made according to the rules of the profession and we must point out that Minister Maric, and the teams in the Ministry of Finance, have set it very correctly and deserve praise. We should also point out that capital markets have been extremely favourable for a long time during the entire term of the current and last government. That we're in trouble and this is funding and borrowing, I'm going to have to illustrate with one piece of information. It means 24.2.2020 and why I'm taking that date because we registered the first case of Covid-19 virus infection. So from 24.2. to 19.7.2020, there was a reduction in the amount of fiscalised accounts from 19.3% compared to the same period last year. If we turn that into absolute amounts then a 15 billion kuna drop has been recorded. This decline was, of course, the biggest in that initial period when measures were introduced as the epidemiologists call them fighting the hammer virus, are we now at some stage of dancing with the virus, as appropriate they were not on me to judge, I'm not an epidemiologist, but they have produced a number of problems in the economy. The largest drop is recorded in the accommodation and food preparation and service activities. We look forward to the data that the situation is being corrected that we are no longer on these defeating figures, but the real projections of macroeconomic we will have, as the minister insisted and said only sometime at the end of the 9th month. What will be the decline of our GDP at this point is difficult to say, the estimates go from 9% to 11%, 11% is an assessment of the Vienna Institute which is a very relevant and respectable institution. So we can say that anything that would be below 10% or one-digital is going to be very good in this situation. Only then will we know, as the minister has said, how much it will be, how much it will be, or how much we will miss it. What do you do in this situation? Debt or raise taxes. We heard in discussions these days that some advocate and raise taxes. I can say very responsibly that the Homeland Movement will not support anything like this, no new introduction of taxes would be appropriate in this situation because the Croatian state is very tax-laden and citizens, as well as our entrepreneurs. That is why, because of the expensive state which is still extremely expensive, investors are bypassing Croatia, and these existing ones are leaving Croatia. There was a reference to the case from my hometown in Osijek of the Maggle factory that decided to leave Croatia, shut down the factory, shut down the business of 160 workers should be left out of work, and it's seen twofold depending on what perspective, but we have to say that Meggle has been working with losses for the past 10 years, it's a private company that works on a market that grows at some rate of 0.7%, and in the overall incomes of Megle, it may be about 5%. If you are looking at the investors' side, the entrepreneurs' decision is logical and very culturally announced it within an appropriate time, although some local officials were startled, but apparently it was just a surprise to them. There's been a lot of talk during these days about that famous 22 billion. Some have negotiated more, we have negotiated so much. At this point in time, being an EU member and being available is indeed positive, desirable and in any case good. What's important to point out is how we manage these funds. And here we have reason to worry about a few things. One thing is that the newly elected minister in an interview for a daily newspaper declares that Croatia must urgently develop a national strategy, a development strategy from 2021 to 2027, so we need to make a strategy so that we can withdraw funds. It's weird to me. Why is that weird to me? Because economic theory and business practice don't know that way of doing business or thinking. So we need a strategy to withdraw funds. The EU has a strategy by 2050, too. Why is Croatia gone, why there is no master plan from which then strategies would be made which would result from action plans without these strategies being as usual just a dead letter on paper. I will remind you of our sustainable development strategy until 2019 for this 10-year period. The strategy defines 8 areas as 8 key areas to work on. At first, there was an incentive for the growth of the number of population in the Republic of Croatia, which was the first key area, we all know what happened, we have lost 400,000 inhabitants since our entry into the EU, and so I say that these strategies are often a dead letter on paper, and why? Because they're working here to pull my funding. And when we withdraw funds then it usually looks like that, at least through these development funds, that there are cycling trails, legposts, homes of health in which there are no doctors, you have one in the municipality of Lower Motičina already 2.5g. The building was built, no dentist, no general practice doctor, but just some sort of overhead cost the municipality has to pay. I will give you another example, and it refers to the measure that has been taken in order to tackle the problems caused by the crisis, and the purpose was to help Croatian entrepreneurs with the crisis affected by the corona. The tender was a credit for crafts with a favourable interest rate carried out by the Croatian Agency for Small Economy, Innovation and Investments and HAMAG Bicro. The applications were from 23.3, most of them didn't get an answer, let alone the funds, it's been four months. Short-term measures, not for basics, for crafts. How much capacity do we have in our institutions to withdraw these funds means and if these people don't get an answer for four months now, let alone get the funds, how will we manage, and how will we withdraw these funds that will be available to us? Also, today some colleagues have mentioned it, and here I am going to repeat it because I don't think the media has made much of a note. The EU is in debt as an entity for the first time, this has not been the case so far, whether it will lead to some fiscal centralisation, we will see. We also heard from Minister Maric that we have taxes at European level related to single plastics, carbon footprints, etc. So, a colleague of Zekanovic's, however, received an answer to his famous question about whether we would come up with taxes at European level. I can tell from all this that we're always kind of going back to a few key things. One is public administration reform, a set of states, a country that simply overkills through taxes, through parafiscal burdens, and it's not my finding now, which is what the European Commission tells us every time we get a report. In addition, in a letter of intent co-signed by Minister Maric and Governor Vujčić, which they sent last year, and regarding the introduction of the EUR, we made a commitment to implement structural reforms and also to reduce the number of parafiscal burdens measured in hundreds, counted in hundreds, over 400 of them. That's all the things we've been listening to for a very long time. Structural reforms, territorial reconstruction, where the syntagms we most often listen to at pre-election times, and then somehow after the election disappear, but without it it will hardly become interesting to investors and we will hardly raise our economy to a higher level of competitiveness and hardly raise productivity. What I want to say is this is the fact that professional and democratic control of spending is crucial and that is something we must insist on, only so we can make reforms that are crucial, only so the Croatian economy can become more competitive on the world market, until we do investors will continue to bypass us in that broad port, and in that EBC formula... Thank you. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3189	We are now going to the 2nd debate, dear colleague Grozdana Peric on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3190	The Honorable President of the Assembly, the Honorable Deputy Prime Minister of Finance, Mr. Maric and his associate. Here, we have before us this package of three actually laws that we want in a certain way to strengthen and verify everything that the government has done in the past. Before the contract itself, you mentioned respected ministers all of what the government is and what we've been doing for the past 4 years. and how the budget is structured, how certain surpluses have been achieved, and how much attention has been paid to spending and reducing public debt. It is also very important to mention everything that happened in this previous period when this famous virus appeared that practically brought down the entire world economy. In this way, the Republic of Croatia listened very carefully and carefully to everything that was happening in the world, and also to all the signals that we had from the EU, and also to the World Health Organization at the right time and I always want to point out that the pandemic and also to all the measures that were being taken to cause this pandemic, in order to have an impact in a quality way and in this way, and to those measures which then gave certain results, and in one way to give one security and trust both to the economy and to the population and to all relevant factors in the Republic. We know that on 13 March, the Government of the Republic of Croatia made a decision on the closure of kindergartens, primary and secondary schools, and on 16 March it also happened for universities. These were really the key moments when, in fact, all of us had changed lives and each of us had to ask the question of how further, in what way, then it was locked up after that and only the economy and each of us wondered what and how we would continue to work, and also with attraction. However, as we have seen, the EU has raised the risk of coronarys from moderate to high on March 2nd, and at that time we have had the first reactions we have heard and seen, which was happening in Italy, which was happening in Slovenia, Hungary, so to us very close countries with which we are bordering, and thus the warning signal that we must respond in good time. By then and then, there were over a million people in the world who were infected, and we know that by then about 53,000 people died. Our government made a number of decisions during that period, and until many thought about what and how it would continue to work, we were participants in the past meeting that were first spent savings in the state budget of over 2 billion kuna, and we were also in that meeting when the first budget rebalancing took place, which actually created the conditions to account for over 600 thousand employees. These measures were very high-quality, very fast because you saw that despite being inclined to criticise our institutions, in fact by working often and from home, quality measures have been taken that intervened against entrepreneurs and employees. This actually created a framework where you could think further about how to help yourself first, and in these conditions we primarily think about how strong we are as a budget, as a state, that we can withstand all these challenges. However, like other countries, we are not strong enough to last too long. The warning was just from the tax administration's state budget on how much fiscalized accounts were less, we knew that no tourist season would happen the way we were used to before the crisis and, in fact, it was projected that this tourist season would fail even more than 70%, respectively. Here, according to these announcements and the results we have now, the decline will still be less, or we expect about 50%. Of course, since all this decline, therefore, we are always used to positive numbers and great achievements from our tourism, and indirectly from our other economy, this need for the additional funds that the government has found and that we can, but thanks to the fact that we know how to manage public finances responsibly, we must not forget that our rating has been raised three times in this period and all this has actually provided additional reasons for optimism that despite all the measures and despite the crisis that we can endure this crisis. The crisis isn't over. We are not allowed, as the minister himself says, to be envied that we have solved all the problems, but for now with these problems we are very good at dealing with. What was the aim of all these measures was, therefore, to help the private sector, to preserve jobs, to ensure payouts, to solve the problem of liquidity, and also to preserve the income of the most vulnerable groups. We also saw in several March, or April measures that actually led to the launch of direct budget support, which included a delay in direct taxes and contributions and a delay in the payment of income tax, i.e. with a delay in July 2020. It was also parallelly reduced unfortunately by the revenues of the state budget from taxes and contributions. Let us not forget that during that period more than 6.7 billion kunas were paid for that very purpose and that, as I said earlier, more than 600,000 jobs were preserved. Unfortunately, at the end of March, there was also an earthquake in Zagreb, which further complicated the whole situation, which was also needed to find additional funds. Just before us are the funds that have been achieved from the state budget, primarily from the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, and also from the Council of Europe Development Bank. These are two contracts from the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which is 275.9m euros and is next 183.9m euros. We know and we see that interest rates are very favourable and very low, but I say and thanks to our credit rating. The starting fees are 0.25%, and the first and second loans from the international bank are 14.5 years, 5 years are starting, so that's the advantage of having a period of 2025, so all that we achieve in this period is a positive one that will make it easier for us to return. What is important in the loan itself, which relates to 275.9m euros? It is important that HZZ measures can also be financed through this loan, for liquidity support, just what is already partially and to a greater extent respected. There have also been significant legal changes through intervention measures, the Law on Credit Institutions, on Climate Change, on the National Compensation for Elderly Persons and other legal changes that have followed these very sources that are available to us. The next measure, i.e. the 183.9 million kuna loan, also enables and facilitates the establishment of key health and education services after the earthquake, after the recovery and reconstruction of public buildings, as well as for the preparedness of public health and prevention. It is important to say, through the loan of the Council of Europe's Framework Contract, that measures or what this loan will be used to finance the reduction of the spread of covid infection, the availability of medical services, the provision of the necessary pharmaceutical products and the needs of medical protective equipment, and also what is equally important to provide local self-government and regional self-government units with unambiguous loans to mitigate the measures or the fall of income resulting from the cancellation and postponement of income tax and cut-offs. So, all of this once again shows that the government reacted on time to everything that was happening during this crisis and that exactly what I said in the replica itself to the minister, so the new generation institute, or instrument that is new in terminology, and also in the EU of 750 billion euros, gives Croatia 9.4 billion euros, of which 5.9 billion is non-refundable, and 2.35 billion are loans. The aside which is another 12.6 billion is from a multi-annual financial framework, so this is the 22 billion-euro package that will certainly support HDZ. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3191	There is now a third debate between SDP's and respected counterpart Branko Grcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3192	I'm going to get on to my colleague Grozdan for the last time, no free lunch, unfortunately, but free lunch. So what we're going to get is borrowed money and that's what the European Commission's documents say, it's borrowed money. One model is distributions such as EU funds based on certain programming documents and it is called grant money, and the other part through loans. However, Croatia as well as all Member States will pay back that money eventually. And what I was just talking to the minister here, so it is very clear that this own contribution from Croatia to the current about 3.6, 3.7 billion how much we pay in the EU budget annually will be increased. However, the documents say that these 0.6% of GNI will therefore last as long as the commitments are paid, so not between 2021 and '27, but only after 2027, and theoretically until 2058, how dynamically this large loan of EUR 750 billion will be returned on behalf of the European Commission or the Union, but above all for the account of the Member States. And that's true. And I don't need to talk about it, as I would say, it's one normal thing that's one financial structure that's the only way to hold water. So it's about the model zero game itself, so the sum of everything is zero, one gives, the other gets something more, all of us are supposed to profit from it, but the money we have to pay back because it's a loan, because it's bonds. So we need to be quite clear here. But I will return to the EU a little bit later and I would like another very important thing that I wanted to ask the minister, so here is Mr Matijević, for sure. So my question is, within 65 billion kuna, how much does the Croatian state or budget want to borrow, or must be, in debt this year, how much of this came from pension funds? Why do I care? I'm interested because that's why we're in opposition, and some experts and financiers and analysts insisted that we try to go to the international market and look for money. Because the interest at which the money was taken to say so from the pension funds is somewhere between 0.7-0.8% that's far below the market rate that's moving, I don't know right now, but between 1.5 and 1.7%. Why am I saying that? Well, it's a very simple thing, if we took some money from the pension funds into the state budget by 0.7%, it's very good for the state, but it's not good for all of us sitting here and all the people who are looking at us and paying into the second pension column because the pensions of future generations are going to lose on it. It will lose to that difference between 0.7 and 1.5 and 1.7%, respectively, of the actual market rate. It's another victim for the state and for the minuses in the budget. I wanted to really point out that people understand what this is all about. So when the Ministry of Finance boasts that it's cheaply in charge of pension funds, then it's not a good thing in this case. If it had been done outside the international market by 0.7, everyone would have welcomed it, but there is a victim here, and the victim is all future pensioners who thus lose on pension funds. I think it's very clear and transparent and that you can't object to it. As far as these three loans are concerned, there's nothing to say. This is very correctly done these are extremely favourable loans, de facto I may be able to ask a question which seems to me my colleague Vesna has already told me about these fees for, which remain to the World Bank, CEB etc., but that is, that is, that practice, when interest falls, increases fees and banks have to live on something. As to the content of the story about these 3 loans, it is certainly what is being financed with them, so the measures behind which we have already heard a lot in the debate here. I would like to say that it is certainly problematic and we have already commented very much at the time when these measures were emerging, it is very problematic about some of the criteria that have been applied, and ultimately and for the purposes, some groups of our citizens very vulnerable in this crisis are completely abandoned, pensioners with the smallest pensions, socially needed. We've mentioned many times that just say buying masks at the time when masks picked up 10 times is a problem for pensioners who have a pension under 2,000 kuna. When you look at two pensioners in the family, monthly they need 500-600 kuna for masks and disinfectants and I don't know if they're still using gloves, it's a huge amount of money, and that's exactly why we suggested that 750 kuna per month help these people. All the countries in our environment had a package of measures for the citizens. One Slovenia is de facto not going to say half, half but a very serious share in the total expenditure had a package of measures for the citizens, for the pensioners, for the unemployed, even students, all students in Slovenia received 150 EUR when it was necessary to maintain a certain level of aggregate demand for spending so that GDP would not fall more than it should have. Our remarks went to, say, a measure to preserve jobs. We've already heard some serious remarks here and we've had them precisely because, for example, there was no money for the citizens, for the retired, for the socially needed, for the unemployed, etc., and there was a hand and a hat. When I say that, I speak with an argument. So among the first 100 companies that received the support of 85,000 and 90,000 companies, the companies that achieved in 2019 were 6 billion kunas, you won't believe 6 billion kunas and they took 150 million from the state. It's unreal to me. That sounds unreal to me. True criteria are equally applicable to all, but then the question is how did we define these criteria when they could use government measures as well. In the 10 first biggest ones that have achieved only 10 imagine at the top of the list, which have achieved 2 billion kuna gains in the previous year are two casinos, please come on. These two casinos made 750 million profits in 2019, and they took back from the state. That money was supposed to go somewhere else, that's what I'm talking about. Who? Well, it's this poor woman and these people who were locked up in times of crisis, who didn't have masks, gloves, etc., etc. Here's some citizens assessing whether it's fair. Furthermore, I have a whole series of open stuff and questions. Strengthening company liquidity is certainly one of the priorities. The whole time we've been bothering the minister here and he remembers whether, when these loans, when this HBOR with direct loans will do its part of the job, why business banks don't issue new loans, yes, unfortunately this situation is still very similar because what HBOR can do with business and HAMAG is too small. Look out here yesterday we heard the HBOR report they broadcast annually 5 billion kuna credits, it's far too little for the needs that objectively exist in the economy. So the message is that state institutions cannot solve the problem itself. Business banks must be involved and I repeat it all the time, including bankers, help Croatian entrepreneurs, small craftsmen, OPGs who are most vulnerable, not well capitalised, difficult to get money and otherwise under normal circumstances, and in these circumstances, especially. Help them. You have a social responsibility in this country, too. Business criteria are understandable to us, clear, but the situation is that if entrepreneurs die, banks will die, it is a very clear situation, and then all those who pay taxes will mutilate all those social funds and others, from health care, pension and we will not be able to meet certain obligations. I don't, of course, create panic, I don't think that's going to happen, we're going to get out of this crisis, but it's important that this burden of crisis is justly, justly deployed. What I still want to say is tax relief, so we, or the government, did a big job in that part of the 3 months, big money went towards entrepreneurs, including income tax exemptions, contributions, and those delays for others. However, apparently by the end of this year, and perhaps even at the beginning of the next year, we will still need to help our entrepreneurs in some way, I say, this time, let's say 100-110,000 private renters in tourism, we have results that are so encouraging in this way, but we must consider that now the heart of the season, if there are no tourists at all, then there will be none, if there are no tourists in Croatia these days, then there were no them at all, right? However, there are a whole series of these small tenants that are not in the city center, which are not in an attractive location, which are in southern parts of Croatia, so Dubrovnik and Dubrovnik coast where traffic is below 20% compared to last year, in my County Split-Dalmatia, where it is 30%, to Istria where it may be 50-60%, but these still need help. So, there's been a delay, not a delay in the pardon, I think it's a full exemption from the obligation to pay a flat tax and a second quarter tax, but I'm asking you both ministers and the entire team in this government, consider the possibility of really helping people because maybe 10-20% of them will do something, but 70-80% will definitely be far, far below the incomes of normal people from which they can pay taxes, taxes and taxes. What I was going to say is that, you see, these loans are okay and the minister talked about it earlier, we closed this financial structure at least for the time being, we'll see what the results will be, but I still believe that the EU funds' capacity has been poorly exploited. The European Commission has given a very flexible framework for the re-use of a significant part of the European Funds for the purpose of addressing the consequences of the root crisis. I don't know if you know it, but it's true. But here I don't have that information I hope the Minister of Finance will later say, I think somewhere there was a mention of about 400 million euros that it was repurposed, I don't know if it's any later, but that we, as chairman of the crisis, had to insist that this part be bigger, that it was even more flexible, that even more money could be redeployed for these needs because then we would do a double job. In this way, they would absorb a significant part of those EU funds that will never be spent, and unfortunately that is a large part of the funds. My friend from the Faculty of Law, Vedran Djulubic, here and I will also tell me the name, the other day, means one of the best known statesmen in the system not only these figures but the state of absorption capacity for EU funds in the country is estimated to be used maximum by the end of 2023 by EUR 7 billion. And I agree fully with him, so between EUR 3 and EUR 3.5 billion could remain completely unexpended, there are major environmental problems, in transport these are major projects they are very difficult to implement on the ground. I know what a tough story it is, I've had a chance to lead it, and there's a problem. So, that money if we were even a little more engaged and hard in the negotiations maybe as in this phase now around Next Generation to do a great thing for Croatia. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3193	We are now going to the presentation of a respected colleague named Zvonimir Troscott on behalf of the Club of Representatives of Independent Lists. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3194	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers, distinguished MPs and MPs and respected citizens of the Republic of Croatia who look at us through the screen. Given that today, if the topic were these loans that we discussed, we'd like to look back as the Mosta Club on these 3 loans, just further through a few tips on why I think we touched everyone today during this debate. We would like to further link this together with the economy and the movements, therefore debt and GDP, to the EU itself and the very problem of this borrowing, and what possible repercussions could have on the Croatian economy and see it through some structural reforms that we should make as a people so that these financial resources that we will withdraw will be used as adequately as possible. Regarding the loan we received at 200m euros under LD 2056, I don't know if Mr. Jelic is here? It's not. I would just like to answer that it has been confirmed on the Committee on Finance that 10% to be financed by the Government, of the total amount of 225 million euros will refer to medical equipment, if you do not believe, you can take a look at the session on Youtube. And here we actually express our concern that I have set up our minister for the reason that it is some amount of 20 million euros, and our concern is next. So as not to show up some company like KING ICT in the form of some medical equipment that's tied to the state and that's how one company wouldn't fit. Well, here, just to introduce some additional mechanisms, if nothing else chooses 3, 4, 5 companies that are on the market and which medical equipment could equip us in the cheapest way and actually the best quality equipment needed by Croatian health care. What has not yet been touched with regard to the loan is that it is a credit that must be withdrawn at least two tranches. The first tranche is something we must withdraw in the first 12 months from the date of signing the contract, and the second tranche, so I speak minimally, and the second tranche is in 18 months at the time, from the date of entry of the contract. In the first tranche, the maximum amount we can withdraw is 75% of the total amount of 200m euros and what the minister has not stated in the presentation, it is not as important because it is technicalal, but it is important for a later debate is that for each of the tranches a request that can be and does not have to be accepted, but can also be rejected at the end of the day. So, these are all short deadlines for withdrawing these funds so here, frankly, we're just giving it as a guide, not as a guideline, but as some kind of appeal as an opposition, in the sense that we have very short deadlines to withdraw large funds of money and I sincerely hope that the projects as such are already ready, or that the documentation is ready for us not to have an appeal for the Ministry of Agriculture when we asked for a moratorium to protect agricultural land, which unfortunately just went on the last day, we almost missed the deadline to protect our agricultural land. Regarding contracts from the World Bank, therefore, they amount to some $500m, amounting to some 460m euros. What we've expressed through the question, we're going to repeat in our presentation, so the truth is, through contracts when they're read in detail, that they have two components of interest, one is a 6-month Euribor, and the other is a fixed component of 0.75%. I pulled out 6-month Euribor in the last period, I added up with a fixed component, and there's about that interest of some, on average, 0.5% when they add up because Euribor is negative, when it's added up and it's moving from -0.25 to -0.37%. When you're talking to 0.75 fixed, you get some kind of average Euribor movement at this point of 0.5%. Also, what we've asked is, today, we're going to ask through this exposure again, whether these contractual terms in terms of interest will also be paid through HBOR to our entrepreneurs, or whether through HBOR and business banks, through certain fees, they will be further cut off. We believe that commercial banks should also earn money, the HBOR needs to earn money, but on the other hand, I think given the situation we're in, I think the cheaper entrepreneurs should get these loans. The other thing is that we also touched, one measure since we've heard a lot about some new sovereignty and then purely from the economic side, new sovereignty should be protecting our citizens with a moratorium on loans and interest at least for a period of time when the crisis is going on. This one sovereign approach to the economy has actually taken over our neighbouring Slovenia, so it would be very good for us to take over as well. The third one point I thought a lot about was also the appeal of the finance minister, since we debated together during the political campaign, there was a lot of talk even about the financial resources released by the CNB to commercial banks, which simply did not let them into the economy. It's not a problem, for real estate loans will be big problems, but when it comes to non-intentional cash loans, commercial banks are doing so regularly. What can at least be considered as a measure, purely as an appeal, is to introduce some kind of, some kind of penals to commercial banks to retain liquidity funds intended for the economy for reasons of the CNB or commercial bank cannot be a golden calf in an economy to which the whole economy should be worshiped, but should be some kind of fuel and some kind of mechanisms that the economy should need help. As for the debts, I managed only to sketch new debts as Mr. Maric is the minister of our finance speaking, here I was able to sketch the following, so from the World Bank we took over some $500 million, we discussed them today, from the Council of Europe we took over 200 million euros. Before the crisis itself, we issued three 20-year bonds, 14 and 5 years with interest rates 1.251 and 0.5%, and we withdrew 9.4 billion euros from the 750-billion-dollar fund, of which 5.9 billion is non-refundable, and 3.5 billion is returned. It's also loans that we have to pay back. So these are just new debts that I was able to settle, and the key to the story is that 11% of the GDP drop we've been communicating during the political campaign will affect 11% of the debt growth that we see with these bonds and loans that we've discussed here, which we've touched. There is concern about the reason why tourism is the only branch still in the Dutch patient's principle, that one syndrome we suffer from as an economy where it's the only branch from which we draw our money, and there we have recognized as a club Mosta the additional two branches, which is agriculture and telecommunications and computer industry where we can really do a lot in IT, given that there may be the greatest potential in the world we would even dare say because our children go to mathematical Olympics, go to China, Singapore and with very little money to invest in them 5, 15th high school in Zagreb win medals at mathematical Olympics and that in front of a Singapore where I live and I know how much money they invest, especially in mathematical literacy that I think is extremely important. So this one pool, this one potential we see for the reason that there was an Infobip in Vodnjanje that was first a local company and then it was created as a regional and now it's operating as a global company, so no one can convince me that we can't do it. The next concern that is related to this whole story we have touched is that for the first time, the EU has committed itself, which will surely lead to certain issues that we must ask, and especially what this debt is until 2058. And he asked Mr. Zekanovic well, how this will manifest to our economy, will we have to introduce some eco-taxes, digital taxes that may even Europe and introduce that the United States is not opposed to this, given that IT companies are the most represented and the highest incomes they bring to the US economy or economy. What is further our concern is whether it might mean that the EU will introduce some compensation for the use of the EU market because the issue then also brings up the free market at least what Adam Smith described in his book "The Richness of the People" in which the arm of the market operates invisiblely. As far as borrowing is concerned, globally China is a country that was in debt in 2007, and this is the only example of a country that can bring here that has succeeded from the task of coming to an 18% stake in the world economy. The example of Croatia is that with borrowing we failed to impose ourselves in the world or at least not in the global then European economy. So what the EU is in charge of is a precedent that we must discuss since it will certainly have consequences for Croatia in the near future. Since I lived in Singapore, I would like to tell you here that Singapore has become a financial centre that has even passed over the financial assets of one Switzerland for the reason that all the assets of India and China are being left there today, and they speak local languages so that they can make rich individuals who have a deposit of over a million US dollars, so all of this is being left financially in Singapore, and they have been able to do so since 1967 when... they came to power, when they have implemented some of the reforms that we, like the Mosta Club, propose, and these are the reforms of the judiciary for the reasons that unfortunately take us too long and none of the investors want to come to a country that has the potential for his case to be in court for 10 years. A reform of the electoral system where there is a certain then indicator of political stability and an increase in democratic processes. The reform of tax discharge has been dissipating a lot during the political campaign with income rates, down from 36% to 30%, but the question is, how are we going to raise these funds that we lose in some way by reducing the tax rate, is this introducing a new tax, in which way will the spending side be reduced? Here are certain questions we'd like to know the answers to, but concrete. Furthermore, the elimination of parafiscal duties, we consider, for example, one HGK should function according to the Anglo-Saxon model, which means market, that companies should not pay HGK but should act as a company. Since the most significant industry in the world today is the science and data management, even the past energy and telecommunications on the world markets, and since they have large databases for the Croatian economy, given that new programming languages such as AR are coming in statistically, I think that all of these could be adapted, and our HGK and sell data packages to Croatian companies, if not Croatian then to the European and thus be a self-sufficient enterprise. Croatian Tourist Board, why is there such an institution if we have the Ministry of Tourism? And the last point I'd like to touch is what's also connected to these loans, so it's all connected somehow to this topic that we've discussed this week, which is this model 60:20:20, which we, as a Club of Representatives of the Most, consider unsustainable and here we're giving constructive criticism for the reason why, because only 7.5% of the total was provided of the total, of the total estimated damages. Zagreb, we showed that Zagreb will not be able to pay off its obligations, our citizens will not be able to pay off, so by model 20%. And why are we asking that question? So we're not asking that question so that we can attack the HDZ Club or the SDP or anyone else but we have an example of a national children's hospital in Blato that is still unfinished today, and how much funds have crashed into that facility. Our concern that we will not have enough money for these renovations, and as a club of representatives, we have advocated that if we do not already have to start from those, of those objects that are most important for our society, these are our Vinogradska, Holy Spirit and Petrova hospitals that need to be completely restored and our schools so that we do not experience the 2002 Molysia. when very many children died Thank you very much. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3195	Thank you. Now, on behalf of the IP Club, Smart and Voice, Mrs. GLAS will speak first. It's a pulack, and then it's Mrs. Devereaux. Dark-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3196	I thank the vice president of the assembly, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. I won't be as detailed as my colleague in front of me even though I agree with most of what he said, but here's the RH today's poor country at the bottom of Europe, at the bottom of all the rankings in Europe. What we'd like would be to live in a country that doesn't live on debt, which won't depend on loans, which won't depend on the World Bank. The last 30 years. We live as drunk rich people who act very disillusioned because when money disappears, we're sure there's someone or whoever we can run away from, who's gonna save us, where we're going to be able to borrow and borrow the next generation. We would like to live in a non-exhaustive country, which is rational, efficient, in a state where local self-government is such that it does not spend almost half of its budget for staff expenditure, in a state where there are no 556 cities and municipalities are already united in 100 urban centres, in a country that does not have 20 counties but are united in 5 regions, in a country where entrepreneurs are free to breathe because they are not burdened with hundreds of parafiscal duties, taxes and taxes, and then they can create new values, they can also create new jobs, and as they create new jobs, then we have more people who pay taxes and so full of the state register, and when the state register is filled with social programs and can also be a better social state. So we would like to live in a country that has implemented all the structural reforms that have been discussed here for years, various governments in the last 20-30 years. all mention these structural reforms, announce them in election campaigns. However, if the Republic of Croatia had implemented all the reforms that have been announced for years, today they would have lived in a richer society, and then the richer society is more social. Today we are in a crisis and this is a global crisis that none of us could have predicted, none of us could have been prepared for it, but if we don't go into the reform revolution soon we will be getting the longest out of this crisis from all European countries. In the end, we have no choice but to support this kind of duty. However, we must not forget that debts are not there to finance our internal non-realities, which there is much because of this kind of behavior and long-term not implementing reforms. Here, so much for me, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3197	Thank you very much. - Mrs. Crescent. Dark-Taritash, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3198	Thank you, well-respected Vice President HS, dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a decision on 3 loans made by the Republic of Croatia to two different institutions. One loan is with the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, and one is with the Council of Europe Development Bank. The total amount of these loans is EUR 659 million or almost 5 billion. The loans are mostly intended to mitigate the effects of the crown crisis and the smaller part of the earthquake in Zagreb. Unfortunately, there is one fact, which is that the whole world is affected by the economic crisis and other negative consequences of the pandemic of the virus or Covid-19 disease. And this and the strongest economies in the world are having a hard time sustaining this year, even though this handsome number of 2020 will be a major challenge for all economies. This makes it more clear that a weak economy such as ours with too little innovative and modern industry, which is sufficiently diverse and brings added value and with too much focus on service activities such as tourism, could not withstand this crisis without various types of direct and indirect assistance. So, if you've been mingling in security for years, considering that everything is fine, of course when you get this big crisis you see a real situation which is no matter how much we warned about it, and for years we've warned that the state that depends on tourism will at some point, and our tourism is related to weather accidents, it's related to a series of things that are very sensitive that at one point it should come to charge. And so it's no wonder we're taking these three loans. The first of these loans is intended for the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development to support employers and workers, as well as the liquidity of businesses, the availability of health insurance, the postponement of tax obligations and enforcement, etc. This loan is based on a programme based on which it is approved and there is the greatest danger and the challenge of really being able to spend money as purposefully as it is imagined. Of course, the lender made it clear in the contract and made it clear that to pay the tranche, he would be satisfied with two things. The first programme and its implementation, and the second one is much more interesting by the general appropriateness of the macroeconomic policy framework in Croatia. The second loan of EUR 200 million is with the Council of Europe Development Bank. This loan is aimed at strengthening health capacities and units of local self-government whose revenues have been reduced due to income tax cuts and taxes. So, when it comes to units of local self-government, this clearly shows that they are connected to the state with the umbilical cord and that their life and their existence in general depend on the state and that's what we talk about decentralisation, when all those who advocate decentralisation, and here we are, too, pointing to that fact. What is more interesting about this loan can be financed by preserving the wide range of availability of medical services and pharmaceutical products. Given the state of which we have been warning for some time, and this is because of Covid's pandemic in Croatia, the significantly impaired availability of health services especially for those who are not infected with the coronary virus, and we hope that this loan will also be used to solve Croatia's burning problem. I must remind you that during the time we were in lockdown and during the time that we really all believed it somehow and the headquarters believed it all I had at one point made a joke, so I will also do it from this pay phone that the headquarters then said that we all had to stand on one foot and be on the blow for half an hour we would have done it because we faced something unknown, but at that point all health institutions were exclusively related to Covid-19 and those services that were meant to be for some other patients were indeed in a reduced form and the question is what would be the consequence of all this. So this problem I think that both the government and the prime minister and the health minister are trying to push under the carpet and pretend it doesn't exist, it exists. So Croatia, parallel to Covid-19, experienced another problem, its capital, or the City of Zagreb, had an earthquake. The earthquake also showed something else, and this is the way and all the weaknesses of Zagreb and the way in which the City of Zagreb was managed. So, in Zagreb it's all seemingly working until the earthquake has shaken the city, and it's behind it and all these floods and it's actually shown that there's only one illusion, that from the outside it's trying to leave the impression that it's all working, and inside it it's all rotting in both real and transmitted terms. So, non-preservation, inaction, negligentness, corruption, all of this came at a charge in Zagreb at the worst time. And the third of these loans that we are discussing today and tomorrow we will decide on is the loan of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development which again covers public health needs and recovery after the earthquake. Here we borrow 180 and almost 4 million EUR and says we could set up a system for planning the reconstruction of public cities and establish key health and education services. And this loan is based on a project that is partly carried by the Ministry of Construction, Spatial Planning and now added management of state property, and the other part by the Ministry of Health. In particular, as regards the earthquake, the reconstruction of public buildings for health and education is covered, as well as the development of a draft programme for the financing of the renovation of residential buildings. When it comes to public buildings or public buildings that were injured in the earthquake, it would be interesting for another reading of the law we discussed on Tuesday to see, for example. one piece of information on how many buildings these countries have secured from earthquakes. On several occasions you mentioned the obligation to take care of your property and you have to, it would be convenient to see how many countries or cities have secured buildings from earthquakes and you are comfortable to see buildings that have been invested for years, one of the projects was also a project of energy efficiency that allowed you to solve and the part that is related to construction and stability, how much funds were spent, and what was made of this. Is it possible that these projects were carried out properly? Perhaps even the damage from the earthquakes on those buildings would be somewhat less. And what we read as one of the biggest problems is the ability of our public bodies to consistently and in line with the programmes on which these loans are based, these loans really do work, not only because of lenders and money payouts, but primarily because of ourselves and our responsibility to spend huge loans where they need to be spent on what they need. I also warn that often in our country, unfortunately, it has not been so in the past. The promoter assures us that it is favourable loans with small interest rates and great beginnings, it writes and there is no reason not to believe it and there is no reason not to, but it should not be fooled by the general assessment of the situation in which we are. And this situation is next, and we have to be all aware of it together, which is that in the debate that is going to be in charge of this country today for the new 5 billion kunas, it's something that we have to keep in mind all the time because even if we spend that money in the best possible way, it didn't fall out of the sky, but we're going to have to pay it back for years and years. Every time you experience any trouble or a new negative situation, it seems to us that you need to see from it, from everything negative and bad, you also have to read something good. So we've lived on debt for years, we've been in debt for years, not just ourselves, not our children, but in some cases, let's be clear and open, and our grandchildren. This pandemic Covid-19 actually showed weakness not only in our country but it showed weakness in both Europe and the world economy, that this one lockdown that lasted the month, the month and a half put questionnaires above our heads for everything and how to do further. So, a task that doesn't blind it, don't put it, you know, when you're a kid, so close your eyes, you get the feeling that something's not happening, we really need to ask ourselves and start investing more and take more care of our economy. The Green Plan is one of the great challenges that we need to have, the responsibility to climate change is also one of the great challenges that we need to have and from this we need to learn the following: that we are really living in a time when one next crisis or everything else can disrupt relations and let us not allow the next crisis that is happening so strongly that unlike other economies that somehow predict that it will recover relatively quickly, the economy of the Republic of Croatia is one of the economies for which they predict the longest length of recovery, we need to think about it now because when the crisis occurs it is too late. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3199	Now, on behalf of the Green-Left Block Representatives Club, Mrs. President will speak for the first time. And then Mrs. Peovic. It's a ben.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3200	I asked the minister today, and I was hoping for a more concrete answer that we were interested in what medium-term projections of public debt growth are in view of the coronary crisis, the fall in economic activity and the fall in tax revenues? The loan will have to be returned regardless of the low interest rates remaining the obligation to repay the principal debt, and unless there is significant economic growth in the medium term, for example. 5% and above, the debt will have to be paid back either from tax increases or from cutting public spending, so it will be less for public investment. The possibility of more favourable refinancing in the future can hardly be because interest rates are at the lowest levels anyway. Loans from the World Bank, but also from the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, arrangements with the IMF are known for being linked to the requests of creditors to implement structural reforms. This means privatisation, labour rights cuts, public spending cuts and social transfers. Here is a mantrically repeated classic set of recommendations or tasks, privatize, flexible, reduce wages and social transfers to retirement. So, the principle is that repaying debts is a priority over everything, including social security, over meeting the fundamental needs of the population. We see in the example of Greece what the three-way arrangements, the European Commission, the IMF, the European Central Bank, have led to a humanitarian disaster, so that the debts of the believers can be paid back. It is also possible that pensions or salaries will not be cut but will not be raised or will not be followed by an increase in the cost of living and inflation, but this is the same form of cutting in one, under quotes, a more elegant way. This was the case in the public sector and in the good part of JLS after the 2008 crisis. where there hasn't been any pay for a decade. The education unions thus strike and win the raise, or what they needed long ago, where collective agreements were suspended because of the crisis. And now there's been a new crisis. What can we expect? That there won't be any raises again. And this recovery package is also related to the European semester, so the policies and austerity and financial consolidation measures, so they also refer to those 22 billion Euros which are expected to have the same magical effects, and they will be supervised by some commission in Brussels, and their approval will certainly depend on and be conditioned by savings policies or famous structural reforms. We have brought ourselves into a situation that due to the skeletal structures and the stuporing commitment of the kuna to the EUR-o the only way we can increase the short and medium term our competitiveness is by cutting wages and cutting labour rights so-called. internal devaluation, that's the only way we have left. The purpose or purpose of these replacements is not to change the unfavourable economic structure, which is why we also have the deficits of the trade rate, the much higher value of imports from exports. Let us remind that for 2019, the EU trade deficit was 71 billion kuna and a 6% increase compared to 2018, so the trend is negative. If we do not ensure changes in the economic structure or an increase in its robustness, that products of high value added products at a much higher rate.../incomprehensible/... total employment, then we will continue to be in a position to agree to the conditions of the creditors, to savings policies, to an insufficient height and to an unfavourable structure of public investment, to race towards the bottom and to a growing comparative lagging. To Europe, not other, but third speeds because the past neighbours who were once behind us as Romania, Hungary. The question is how many current investments that will be invested by this loan have an impact on the change in such an unfavourable structure. Small or no, therefore, emphasis should be placed on the importance of the investment structure, not just repeating how much money is available to us because the amount of money is not as large as the repetition of those billions of mantric targets on the euthanasia of the majority. I will remind you that these funds, so here we are talking about this 22 billion euro, do not reach a two-year amount of pre-crisis investments in 2008. As far as loans are concerned, loans now offered as a rescue solution should also be critical of them. Loans are, as it is said, virtual lending from the future that has real effects in the present. What effects in the present are produced by these loans so that those in the future, who have to pay them, will have a lower burden. These loans produce the effects of maintaining and deepening an unfavourable economic structure where in the future the burden of the loan will be increasingly pronounced. Loans offered do not make assumptions for their easier return in the future amid a changed economic structure that will be based on complex products of higher value added value and a higher level of total employment. Therefore, as with these 22 billion euros, loans should be extremely critical and should be extremely critical of them.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3201	- Mrs. Crescent. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3202	... Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. [[Specially enabled.]] So, apart from the criticism of what was otherwise the way we've been spending so far, we want to give some of course concrete proposals, in which this borrowing should actually be tied up, and in order to have the effects that we're talking about, which is to change the economic structure and create the basis from which these loans will be able to return in a sustainable manner. First, we believe that the task of this committee is to force this government to actually create a single recovery program that will also be our green development plan. The aim is to detect those economic branches of investment in which it will have 3 significant effects and to bind all investments to those 3 objectives. The first is the creation of an offer or an economy that can meet essential social and economic needs in the crisis. And this is, for example, the food industry, pharmaceuticals, health care, etc. to create resilience to this crisis, but also to the coming crisis and to strengthen, of course, self-sufficiency in these sectors. Another important objective must be a significant effect in terms of reducing CO2 and contributing to reducing the risk of climate change, and thirdly, it is extremely important for us that such investment must ensure wage growth, improve working conditions and create better jobs. So, in our view, all of what we now have as a recovery plan and what will be the measures in the recovery plan must make a clear contribution to these three objectives. Why? If we do it this way, then these investments, or this debt and loan that we have, will not only have a negative effect in the sense that we will increase the absolute amount of debt because it is less important. What will be an effect is that the share of debt, public debt in GDP will be lower if we invest and change the structure of the economy in this way, and that is actually what is important, not the absolute amount of public debt we have. Furthermore, what we are specifically asking to enter the recovery programme is an investment plan in a scientific and technological industrial complex that will allow our companies to start producing components for renewable energy production. So it's one of the most important measures we want to see in the recovery program. In the scientific sector, we already have clusters working on innovations in sustainable sources, renewable energy sources and we need to connect them with our technology companies and directly invest in the development of these innovations, as well as the pre-phase to strengthen the technology base of these companies because they are actually technologically uncompetitive today. Furthermore, if we know that large funds will be invested in reconstruction over the next 10 years, and perhaps 20, then we should now, as a pre-phase, invest in strengthening the construction material manufacturing sector and in concretely sustainable building materials and technologies. This sector is in our turn, but with more serious investments, we could raise it, and in that case, when we call for a renewal tender, we could place elements of green public procurement and ensure that domestic companies are competitive enough and that they have an offer that can respond to these competitions, and in fact what looks like a cost now would become actually an investment. Furthermore, investments to strengthen resistance to the Covid crisis should also focus on the agri-food sector, i.e. the integration of agricultural production and the food industry, in order to ensure food self-sufficiency on the one hand, as well as transformation towards organic and natural cultivation. What is particularly important to us is that all the support that will now go towards the private sector is therefore meant to ensure these three objectives, but to separate the support for workers. Workers' support must go to the workers. What we have now done with these aids so far is that there has been malfeasance with these aids, that not all support has always come to workers on time and in full scale, that there have been cases where workers have been asked to return some of those support for their salaries, but what is most important that we did not tie it up and target those companies that really need it but were also getting companies that ended up with 100 million kuna last year. Which I can pay in peace now because we didn't tie that obligation to them. So in the future, we want measures to differ, measures towards workers from measures to restructure the economy. And another thing we'd very much like to see in the recovery program is that we have some clear indicators of success that will attach to these three goals. What growth do we expect, in which sectors, the transition to green technologies, in which number of companies, the reduction of CO2 in which is measured over the next 5 to 10 years? So we want to see where we are now and we want to see where what we are aiming to achieve so that we as Parliament can actually monitor how successfully this really invests in what we are going to be in debt now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3203	Now, on behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns' Club, Mr Hrvoje Zekanovic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3204	Right at noon, the bells of the church of St. Mark. I'm the Honorable Minister, the Honorable Vice President of the Assembly here, and today I've asked one question, I've got one half answer, I'm going to ask it again, although I have to tell everyone who's been following this session that you've explained to me a little bit more in four eyes what this is about, but here I still have a few questions, and those answers you've said to me in four eyes I'd like you to repeat them here for the pay phone again. To be crystal clear, concrete, and not abstract here, I'll try to explain what's going on next. When a man raises a loan for a car that will pay for 5 years, he must have in his home budget 2,000 kuna each month, for example. In order to pay the war on that loan, when you buy a cell phone at the same time for two years then the war is 400-500 kuna a month, 300, it doesn't matter, either, you have to have that money to pay the phone bill. It's the same with housing loans. That person who has a salary of 5,000 kuna and raises a housing loan that has a war on a 2,000-dollar housing loan per month is mostly bankrupt, rare cases are and I would say it is impossible for a person who has so much to receive such a war of credit to simply manage to repay that loan. I'm a little worried about this, this marble, if you could just keep it down a little bit. So, Croatia is in a position to borrow today, not to raise it directly Croatia but Croatia has raised it here we have heard a whole series of credits, this time these loans are being raised by the EU and now what citizens must understand and understand that the EU did not print it, so there is no printing machine today, I think there is but no money being printed because then inflation starts, neither does Mom Merkel or Macron or anyone else in the safe, so they will open the safe, so they will give us money, but whether we receive it as a direct loan or as a grant someone has to invent it, he does not, so someone has to create it. In other words, all we will get from the EU those 22 billion EUR we will have to pay back, okay, I will even praise the amount that Croatia has received and it is the most favourable money we may even pay back a little less than we will get money and it is great and I here here you have the commendation on my part Minister you always know that I commend you when it is necessary, but no one has said that we will have to increase EU membership fees. No one said that. Here's a little while ago you said that to me in 4 eyes, here I will repeat, so correct me, if I understand you mentioned a 650 million figure, I don't know whether it's EUR or kuna more money that we're going to have to give to the EU annually, even though it is, on average, an average annual basis. I will repeat here are the key figures, here they come, the camera came perhaps this is very interesting for Croatian citizens, so the total annual Croatian state will have to pay 650 million kuna more in the European budget, pardon, EUR, EUR here I made a mistake. 650 million Euros per year on average, and that's one scary number, and now what's making me angry. I'm angry that yesterday the Prime Minister was here on my question when I asked him about the income side, he said it wasn't discussed, and he didn't dare say this number. Even you respected ministers whom I really appreciate you as the expert of the best in Croatia in the economy did not say it so loudly, and the citizens must know it. That number will come out sooner or later in the light of day, no one's talking about that number. So our membership fee will be bigger and significantly higher. Now that's not all, that's not all. And with that increased membership fee, we still don't have enough money to borrow. So we borrowed $750 billion like the EU again, and we're missing our colleague Pavic again, and you know it just as well. There's no money missing, and now there's talk of getting that money, you can't make Croatia give you 2 billion and more when there's no money. And now some taxes are being considered, and now if that's the French tax, digital tax, for example. What Face, Google, YouTube over there, okay, here I will raise my hand for that money to be taken, but what if it isn't, if there's a new tax burden, for example. As we already have some kind of tax on sugar for I don't know what it's all about, for energy that we're going to feel directly as citizens, and then we're in trouble. So I must say that here is a very skillful hidden truth from Croatian citizens and this money is shown as a gift. It's not my people's gift. It's a loan. I said at the start of this speech what it's all about, when you're buying a car, you have to be 2,000 a month for the next five years if you want the car to pay off, if you don't want to get the job done, the bank takes it or licking your house whatever it is. We do not have that money, and no one is here to us who are actually making a decision, the Croatian Parliament is making a decision, and not even to the HDZ people who will support this, not even to the SDSS, but maybe you know it, I didn't know, that our membership fees would increase, so our monthly war will be much bigger than it was. Here's a colleague on the left, and I want you to make this topic a little popular to talk about. I won't agree here with my colleague Peovic as she spoke earlier, the loan should be taken because without the loan today you can't. And I'm driving a car on credit too today, I've been listening, and I've realized, but the loan okay, I understand part of it, but I've realized from your speech a lot you've done so beautifully poetically, I didn't know if it was prose or poetry, but okay, a loan without a loan can't and this is a favourable loan. Just if we have money in perspective, we're going back and if we're going to come back later, what's our perspective, that later as a state, we're raising less favourable loans to return the interest or the war to this super-favourable loan. And then we're back on the same thing because in the second step, we're going to unfavourable to repay a favourable loan. In the end, the math to simplify is such that we're going to be in an unfavourable position, not favorably. Or then the key question of the Minister of Finance, which is your portfolio, where will Croatia find this surplus of 650m euros every year? Is that through credit, through bonds? Of course the answer is yes. On what terms? Worse than we currently have means European duty. What did we get? Well, nothing really. We didn't get anything, and this is what we need to talk about. Here's the minister, if you'd like to explain a little bit more to us, I'll be happy to replicate if there's any more details that I don't understand. There's a colleague and a colleague so much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3205	Thank you very much. Now he will speak to Mr. Stephen Nikola Bartulic's individual debate. He's gone. He's losing his right. Mr. Marko Pavić also had an individual debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3206	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President of the Parliament, Your Honor. Let's start to remember where we started, we started from the situation that the covid came, that the economy had closed down, that the Member States had closed down, that we had after that March 22nd and the earthquake and the government had started preparing a package of measures, a package for March, a package for April. When we look at the total amount of these packages, they have so far been one of the strongest in the EU 9.6% of GDP, and I think Malta alone had stronger. But we were also responsible for who the government was then, we knew where these funds would come from, we knew what these funds would be spent on and how public finances would stabilize this year. And congratulations to Minister Maric, the new treasurer and special commendation and welcome to the former state treasurer, Mrs. Jakir Bajo. Today, we have three laws with a total package of 659 million euros that will be included for HZZ measures, an active employment policy measure, and I was once Minister of Labour 7.5 billion kuna, which is twice as much as in the government's mandate before, and now we have provided more than 5.5 billion kuna for over 600,000 jobs. There are also funds for the National Compensation Act, funds for health and education institutions for the earthquake that are complementary to the Solidarity Fund, and perhaps less also known that we have sent a request to the Solidarity Fund and for covid. So we had an impact assessment on the 650m-euro economy and we expect another 34m euros from the Solidarity Fund for Covid. The third component of these loans is measures to reduce the spread of infection from protective equipment, loans to local self-government units and all that is needed to address this crisis. I would like to refer to some of the previous exhibitions, I am sorry that there is no Mr. Greek here, when we talk about maximum flexibility it exists, it exists and is the result of the Croatian Presidency. There were 2 legitimate packages of Corona's response investment initiative one and Corona's response investment initiative plus which ensured the maximum flexibility of the funds. However, since our contract rate is high, we were relatively unable to distribute more than EUR 450 million, and we also used that EUR 450 million for equipment, all the equipment that was purchased, the protective equipment in our institutions, comes from China, and is paid by the funds of EUR 200 million, i.e. The EUR 200 million went for HZZ measures and over a billion kunas of very fast loans, and I must commend both HBOR and HAMAB Bicro for providing credit lines in record time. I also need to say something about the absorption and consumption of EU funds. So, we, some countries couldn't use that flexibility because they already agreed over 100%, we're at 98% of the deal and as a smart state we're going to ic on over and over-contracting from at least 20 to 30% of this which shows enough what we've negotiated. I'm sorry there's no Mr. Greek here, the last four months of my term, a billion Euros agreed, four years. It's about the same. What is the plan to go to Overcontracting of at least 20-30%, the OPCK is now at 108% to ensure that this Overcontracting is not lost or liped, so congratulations to Minister Maric on the responsible management of public finances. This package will contribute to the stabilisation and also to the recovery of the Republic of Croatia Thank you. [[Intruder: Thank you very much, time]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3207	Thank you. The first line was requested by Mr. Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3208	Dear colleague Pavić, here I have listened carefully to you and everything you have said is true, I really agree with everything and I must say that there have really been some good measures of the government and of your ministry and of Mr. Maric's ministry and it is not disputed, and it is not disputed. And me, and with it not being the same thing that's been done and you know it's not as much money as it's supposed to be withdrawn from the European Funds, but it's not all so black, but it's not all so white. But what I would ask you here is that this is your portfolio if you were to tell the Croatian public how, if everything is as Andrej Plenkovic plans, the Republic of Croatia will pay total EU membership fees in 2021.? Let's hear that number from you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3209	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3210	Thank you very much. Well, I'm just happy that you're asking for both membership fees and payments, so now that we're looking at the ratio of how many membership fees we've paid and how much is in the budget, 26 billion kuna we're in plus in this envelope, in this envelope. When these 22 billion come, so this 600 and something million is an estimate for the total membership fee annually. Compared to now, we are already paying this membership fee, it will grow slightly above EUR 100 million a year, it will be an additional investment, but we will have much larger funds. This 22 billion Mr. Zekanovic is not a loan, only a small part of it is a loan from the Recovery Fund. In addition to financial instruments, the entire VFO are grants, EUR 12.7 billion, of these remainders 9 and just a small part are loans, so of 22 billion is the majority of the grants and we will not borrow Croatian, Croatian children.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3211	Here you go, Mr. Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3212	Dear Vice President, I would like a break from the Croatian Sovereigns' Club to consult with my colleagues on this set of laws. Dear colleague Pavić, you've said only part of the story again. I tried to explain it earlier at the pay phone, and I think people figured it out. That money was not from the safe, it wasn't Mrs. Devereaux. Merkel lit the printing machine, that money was borrowed somewhere, and that money's gonna have to be paid back. I will repeat, for the Republic of Croatia, it is extremely favourable or most favourable as it can be because we will return even a little less money than we will get, but this money will have to be returned by a Croatian state through an increase in membership, the Croatian state, through some new taxes that we don't know about yet, and it will be said, remember, this will be a key topic in the next period, a key topic and it would be nice for you now that you've been acting high-ranking in the Croatian government, and also Minister Maric, of course, will start speaking publicly transparently about this, because eventually it will be seen, and this will serve the opposition, which we are in opposition, we will make you say these figures, to be transparent and to see how much Croatian state of money will have to find, how much will actually be a burden for Croatian citizens. No one started the printing machine, no one pulled the money out of the safe, that money was borrowed from some institutions, and that money would have to come back. And here's all I want you to say, but on my side enough.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3213	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3214	Dear Vice President, on behalf of the HDZ Club, I'm looking for a break to further discuss all this about these loans. So it is not clear to us that some colleagues do not understand that we are a member of the EU, that we are negotiating certain conditions in our own membership. What's the alternative at a time when a crisis like this has arisen? Would you and such individuals wish hundreds of thousands of jobs were lost, if jobs and the economy had been lost in the first place if they had gone bankrupt? Therefore, all that is with these measures and these ways of solving the problem has been achieved, that means that they do not recognise how significant this is to overcome the crisis. We are aware that the 2007 crisis, '08, which was, has long been reflected on our economy and that this government is seeking to achieve a strong reform of all that is now in the short term, to achieve a very significant economic effect that will then not pose a problem to the state budget to raise additional funds for the payment or payment of part of its liabilities. You must also know that the EU is also a union of countries that are very solidarity, therefore, all of what we do for ourselves, they also partially do for us other countries.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3215	Thank you. 12 and 30 breaks. 12 and 30. It's 12.20 o'clock. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING AT 12.30 HOURS]] Now actually the replicas are still. The second line has Mr. Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3217	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The main line of criticism of the opposition is that there is no free lunch, that when the EU Commission goes to... He also owes the capital there on the most favourable terms, that it must be returned. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This is true, it will have to come back, but what the opposition does not say is that exactly the most developed countries will participate in some of these potential ones, or when they come in with taxes on European ones, and the greatest benefits of new members among them, of course, the Republic of Croatia. That is why the EU's most developed countries have long resisted such a model where the EU Commission can go to international capital markets on behalf of the EU as a whole. And I think that's very important, my colleague Pavić, you said that in part in your debate, and through this replica, I would like further clarification to the Croatian citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3218	Thank you very much. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3219	Thank you very much. Well, that's exactly right, Mr. Stier. There were some concerns that our youngsters would be returning it for generations. No, I'm surprised someone thinks about public finances as a household, if someone comes back, they'll bring back young developed countries, but they won't even. Money will be returned from an increased economic activity that will be stimulated by these funds. On average, 70% of EU funds go to secondary procurement in Western Europe because they are more developed, more efficient economies and as such needs a consensus of all prime ministers, so why would one Macron, why would one Angela Merkel and one Kurz sign if it is harmful to their countries because they know that these funds will provide additional economic activities to their economies, and also taxes if they are to be at all, will be proportionately developed because those who have more developed economies will pay them more. Therefore, Croatia as a net recipient, there is also a great gain of 22 billions of euros, just a few billion... [[I'm sorry, I'm sorry.]] are loans [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[I'm sorry, my mistake, I let you go...]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3220	...to talk too much. - Mrs. Crescent. It's a ben.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3221	Thank you. So the replica of what you said about providing support for jobs. True, you've provided support for jobs. What we propose to be in the next iteration of support is that it is not support for jobs but that it is support for workers and that it is given to workers because it differs, the workplace can work at Pero Perić and someone else can work so that Pero Peric is fired although his employer has received support. For this reason, we ask that those support that will be directed at the social security of workers be paid directly to them. The second part of the replica refers to that you boasted of the absorption capacity, based on the information on the contract. I want to tell you that the public should know that the absorption capacity is not only measured by the indicator of the contracted funds, but especially by the funds paid and, ultimately, by the means certified. For that reason, I don't think we can talk yet. on good absorption capacity. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3222	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3223	Thank you very much, ma'am. It's a In particular, active employment policy measures include a different set of measures. Some are paid to protect employers' jobs, some are going directly to workers, some are going to save jobs like these new jobs that we have provided 5.5 billion kuna for 600 thousand jobs. This government has provided twice as much funding for active employment policies as before. It is precisely for the absorption of European funds, I would just mention, some of them self-employment measures where a young person can and goes directly to the entrepreneur up to 100,000 kunas. In the Government program there are 130 thousand kunas, and we have also provided, say, a programme of requests that went directly to these women, over 6 thousand women lower education levels that use these measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3224	You, too. And at the end of the day, It's a feather.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3225	Dear colleague, you mentioned how much resources we have available in this perspective, and it should also be noted that it is precisely negotiating abilities and expertise, which allowed these funds to continue to be used by M Plus 3, that our participation is only 15%, that it is not increased to 2 or 30%, so 85% of the funds are therefore still non-refundable or European funds, and all of which, compared to the total resources that we withdraw, is something that gives us very much hope that we will use very much for valuable projects.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3226	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3227	Thank you very much. So exactly what you said, so the entire multi-annual financial framework package is a very large document that will also have one 50th regulation, and the key things that we have defended as a member state, and influenced who the country's chairman is that some of the things inside are being held back. He would point out that the co-financing rate remains at 15%. First proposal, so-called .../incomprehensible/... i.e. the negotiating box was to double to 30% so they cut to this council to 25% and now it's held the same. Doubled from that co-financing rate would be disastrous for our units of local and regional self-government. The second component that's been retained is the n+3 rule, that one year's funding can be used for another 3 years, and that's exactly what gives us the certainty that we're going to use all the resources and.../incomprehensible/...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3228	Mr. Nikola Grmoya is on his way now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3229	Thank you, Vice President. I have already spoken through the replicat Minister Maric about how a favourable debt that is not our merit but a reflection of the situation on the capital market can not be a reason for some celebration, especially if we consider that the government is the same government, almost the same coalition partners only now, instead of Milan Bandic, we have some independent representatives who have been elected on the HDZ list who support the government but the government's spine is the same that is the SDSS and minorities, in fact in the past 4 years they haven't done anything at all. You are neither about public administration reform nor about the reform of the territorial structure, nor about the reduction of the number of politicians and officials, nor about the efficiency of our judiciary and its independence. All these proposals that would actually enable the Croatian economy to be more resistant to these blows and the challenges the Most proposed over the past 4 years through the legislative proposals and the reform of the judiciary that was rejected here in the Croatian Parliament and the reform of the electoral law that was rejected we still had a stolen referendum and that is what is saddening. We also proposed the Law on Regional and Local Self-Government, which would reduce the number of officials by 3,000 more than 3,000, which was not even discussed here in the Croatian Parliament, and we proposed reducing the burden on our entrepreneurs, for our craftsmen, for our hosts, all of this was regularly rejected here. And here's the only thing I can express hope that this ruling majority, no matter what it's thin, but here's the prime minister who likes to boast that he's won a great victory in these past parliamentary elections, is going to implement some of these reforms. Every good proposal we will support here in the Croatian Parliament, but we will also propose our proposals, in fact enough to repeat what we have proposed in these past four years. It was more than 50 legislative proposals, none of them were accepted, not just a legal proposal, not a single amendment. This speaks of the prime minister's relationship with this ruling majority towards the opposition. We saw a very nervous, very nervous reaction yesterday, I don't know what this is about, why such behavior, but apparently the prime minister is nervous because the whole concept at which this election victory came into question. So it's clear to all of Croatia that this whole story about headquarters as one political body is actually one big con. It was also admitted by the present vice president of the Furio Radin Assembly that it is even questionable whether we had an epidemic in Croatia, let alone the pandemic, it is now clear to all. And that, the whole concept is being questioned from the highest position in the country by the President of the Republic and it's clear how such anxiety came from. We will further question it, we will not allow you to question human rights and freedoms during this situation. We will fight for freedom of speech, for freedom of people in their opinion because you will not surely do what you intend to do, and we will also fight for freedom of the market. So for a market economy that will have certain social components, but enough of this crown of capitalism, the delivery is that you control everything in this country, that only whoever is close to you, who has your party card, which is your donor, which is your sponsor in this country goes well. That's what we're going to fight hard, and we're not going to deal with the loan problems. We will solve the problems with courage to implement these reforms that I have been talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3230	Mrs. Anka Dark Taritash, she asked for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3231	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. The esteemed comrade of the bush that you're leaving so he won't get a chance to respond, but, no, it's not a replica, you have a replica, but all right, but something I wanted to say and point out we were parliamentary representatives in the former assembly, and you and I. We gave one 200 amendments to the 1 amendment was accepted. So maybe it was the only one or I don't know that other clubs would know, but why? Because without that amendment, and it was about the Property Act and they couldn't enforce the law, and they were aware that if they didn't accept it, they wouldn't be. But really, the fact is that in that assembly that we were in, we worked hard, we gave constructive amendments, we even made some proposals for amending laws without which the law could not be implemented and everything was in turn rejected. Maybe the living were and saw in this council's synergy being something different, I've got a lot of years, so I don't really have any hope for that, but the living have been seen.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3232	Would you like to answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3233	I'm actually saddened to listen to commentators who say this assembly's gonna be better quality because apparently in the last term we were excesses. That's not true. So, the last meeting was full of quality proposals from the opposition and as far as amendments and legal proposals are concerned, and the fact that most media is much more interesting when a fellow Pernar brings out of the assembly is not the problem of the last term, but rather the problem of general relations with this high home, according to quality discussions. There have been many of them today, and we know that none of them will be passed on. I watched this morning as HINA conveyed this beginning of the debate, only what Zdravko Maric said, there were quality replicas of no replica found in that report which was transmitted by portals and media, so clearly there is not just a problem in us.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3234	And now it's Mr. Miro Bulj's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3235	Thank you very much. Here we are talking about borrowing, Croatia, which is an overindebted state, is always asking where it will go with the money in charge, which will be channels, will be given to maintain this kind of administration, the county that should have been shut down already, would have already saved money would not have tribals or borrowed in essence. Countys are the main brakes of development of the Republic of Croatia. But I would talk here to the esteemed secretaries about very important things, treasurer, that's what the current situation is, and that's the move that has been made by Slovenia and many other states that have had a resistance to banks, and the feelings towards the people because the banks are solvent, the banks are full of money. As I said in the replica, annually on fees, fees, not interest, suck out of our citizens' pockets 4 billion kunas without interest, but hundreds of fees, hundreds and that money goes who knows where and di is invested. So it would be good for the Croatian government to propose a moratorium on loans and interest. We are currently in crisis with government representatives in a huge crisis, mainly in the tourism sector, unfortunately only the tourism sector in the Republic of Croatia is primary and should not be. It is important, but it should have been an additional value to our agriculture, to our economy that people are over-indebted and unable to repay their obligations and loans to farmers or workers, and mainly seasons and those who have invested in tourist capacities and all those who depended on tourism, and that is 90% of the people in Croatia depending on tourism, which means that this is a key measure. I hope that you will hear what we have proposed in the past term when the crown crisis occurred, but Slovenia did, too, so we can't say it's something populist. Moratorium on interest and loans because if Slovenia did so, if you have the strength of your sponsors to resist, from banks and various lobbyists. And of course where you can save a lot of money, it's very important, it's teleopers. It is not clear to me why teleoperators in the Republic of Croatia, it is clear to me that I have proposed legal proposals because they behave however they want, why they do not behave teleoperately as in their own countries, and not that in the Republic of Croatia 42% get Deutsche Telekom or their sister companies, i.e. 42% in countries where they come from below 20% and remain EU countries or do nothing, they don't need building permits, they do what they want. And what our elders were creating took over with our political servant who got certain functions and places in T-Com or I don't know di, they sold it out, and now we've put national security at risk because the biggest profits they have in the Republic of Croatia teleoperators. I've given laws that aren't accepted, teleopers do whatever they want in us, but that's where they could be saved. Why is 20% more profitable in Croatia than in countries where they come from? Why don't they behave if we're equal, both in agriculture and in many other things. So don't just favor your sponsors with political favors, but it's time to stand behind the people. The European funds, I spoke about the environment yesterday, I read in the Economist's esteemed List that the Fund for the Future is 9.6 billion, that it is the most for agriculture and green. Who knows where it's gonna end up in us? We're at the bottom of withdrawing funds from the eu funds. I was saying yesterday, I'm going to Sinj to the Sinj Council, that's what I'm going to ask them, that's what I'm going to fight for to agglomeration to preserve the environment i.e. The sewerage open to Cetina and other agglomerations, not only in Sinj will fail due to the lack of care of Croatian waters, due to the lack of water supply in these areas, is there bad estimates, bad values of these projects so that we have to catch up with what we have, rather than boasting about the borrowings and borrowing of future generations that will essentially be the same relationships as with teleopers and banks. So we have space, we can break up public administration, shut down the county, centralize funds towards local self-government to finally breathe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3236	Thank you very much. Mrs. Katarina Peovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3237	Here's a greeting for everyone. Once again, what was somewhere our intensity has been, so from this morning on, ask the question of what these medium-term projections are growing public debt given this crown crisis, right, since it's a downturn in economic activity we all witness and drop in tax revenues. The coronary crisis has brought us into a situation of really negative trends, and I don't think that it is, that we don't need to be overly proven. So when we talk about loans, we shouldn't talk about some kind of gift that will magically solve all the problems, but we really need to consider that this loan has to be returned, regardless of what we can all agree that the interest rates are low, this debt return obligation remains. If there is no significant or significant economic growth within that medium term, let's say 5% and more, it will become a problem. Now why do we think it won't come to that economic growth? First of all, because we have reduced our economies to one oscillating type of economy that relies on service activities and mostly on tourism where we have 20% share in GDP, no highly developed Western country has more than 4 to 5% of the share of tourism in GDP. So, in this situation where the decline of the tourist season will surely be present, so the most we can do is figure out about 30% of last year's tourist season, we have to expect to be in trouble. In view of this, then, the loan, which acts favorably, must be viewed critically. So if we're going to invest in the way we've invested so far, we can't expect that we're really going to become competitive. So let's remind ourselves that, I've cited it several times, so 2019's EU trade deficit was 71 billion kuna, which means not only is it a major deficit, that we have a large, and the stock exchange deficit, but it's also a bad trend, so that's a trend since the growth of around 6% compared to 2018. So neither the European Funds nor any further borrowing help us to overcome the situation in which we found these skeletal structures. What we should do, and my colleague Bencic said something about it, is really invest in a way that is invested to change that oscillating economic structure, so that we do not get to the point that debt must be paid or increased by tax means or by cutting public spending. And in all these current situations, we've had this very situation that we've had an unfavourable oscillating economic structure and unfavourable trends solved so-called. By internal devaluation, this means reducing labour prices, firing workers and similar measures, dropping standards will be the only way these rulings will deal with what is coming to us. So, in order to change this, we should primarily change the occipital economic structure from the ground up, that means really invest, that state can do huge things, it has the ability to protect its economy and change its economic structure in a way that means investing first makes an analysis of the activities in which it needs to be invested, and then the activities that have the ability to produce high added value, encourage, protect and intervene. No rich Western country has developed without interventionism and without protectionism, we seem to forget it, and then we are more sacred than the Pope and we want to participate in this free competition in the way rich Western countries participate and in this competition we are clearly losing. Why are we losing? Because we act and put ourselves in a position to fight like amateurs with professionals in high professional boxing, to show it so plastically. So, we don't have a market game, we don't have much of an exaggeration to overcome our limitations because of this skeletal economy structure. That's why we should be very critical of these new borrowings, not because it's about non-favourable borrowings, but because we have to set the criteria, we have to set the basic elements by which we're actually going to to invest this money. [[Intruder: Time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3238	Mr. Stier has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3239	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Peovic, you say you are not critical of this most favourable way of obtaining capital to finance all needs in this difficult situation where the whole world is in, and of course, the Republic of Croatia, I think you will agree that if you need to take one EUR and at the most favourable interest, that when you return it, it is much better not to return it yourself, so you do not have to return the whole EURo but only one smaller part of it, and most of it will return a much more developed economy such as German, French, Dutch, because this is exactly the model that has now decided that the European Commission, on behalf of the whole EU, can go to international capital markets in this new EU programme for the next generation.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3240	The answer to Mrs. Crescent's Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3241	Well, if that were the case, we'd be in the fiscal union, which we know we're not. If we were really in a position to overcome the meaning of these inequalities in the EU, we would have to put ourselves in a situation primarily of the fiscal union, so as is the United States where they are richer and help the poor, we know for sure how much we have been drawn together, we have heard from the Prime Minister himself among those so-called. thrifty, as euphemism says, the countries of the north and the less thrifty trees of the countries of the south as there was around so-called. Discussions on the so-called And I'm sure it could have been worse to understand each other, but we're not asking a fundamental question of unequal development that we can't overcome in this context, and it seems to me that our government does. He understands very well, but he agrees. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3242	Thank you very much. There's not another one, there's time for another individual debate. Mr. Cellic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3243	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. We have before us three final drafts of the law which should confirm the loan agreement. I will briefly refer to the one involved in the reconstruction project after the earthquake and strengthening public health preparedness. Every crisis and every stress should be seen as an opportunity, each medal has two sides and so is the stress except for that mental distress which is a negative component that is well known to all of us, there is also a positive side of stress, that is, our endurance, and that positive component allows us to work on certain solutions with a good analysis of the problem situations. When we talk about this loan, I would also briefly refer to the priorities of the Government of the Republic of Croatia's health programme, as regards investments of 3 billion kuna in the modernisation of the health system, in the construction of the National Children's Hospital and the revitalisation of the Immunological Institute to ensure the production of vaccines and the self-sustainability of blood products Why do I mention this? So, during the March earthquake this year, 8 health institutions in the city of Zagreb are seriously damaged, which is awaiting a major reconstruction. Here I would point out the Clinical Diseases Clinic in Klaic, and in this segment I see an opportunity to resolve as quickly as possible in order to realize the construction of the National Children's Hospital, regardless of the feasibility study, which we are waiting for, therefore, is the issue of withdrawing EU funds. It certainly requires a done solution to administrative barriers, but it should also be seen as a challenge to the question of the Srebrenica Children's Hospital, which has withdrawn 60m euros and which could possibly be an integral part of that National Children's Hospital. There are therefore many issues, mentioning health and public administration reform as priorities in this government's programme. When we talk about health reform, then first of all we think about hospital health care, primary health care. I would say that the public health system has shown its functionality based on old fame because it has invested too little over the past few decades in the development of epidemiology with the development of public health and there is definitely a space for further development where the Croatian Institute of Public Health, which is here, would become known and through the operation of the National Civil Protection Staff, should certainly play a much greater and more important role in the prevention issue because the development of preventive programmes may initially offer an increase in resources in the short term, but when we get to treatment, then we are already somewhat late and according to HZZO data last year has spent 7.6 billion kuna on medicines. This is an increase of more than a billion kuna compared to the last year, and most of that increase refers to particularly expensive medicines. So, the space for rationalisation definitely has, the public health system and in general the Croatian health system is in me, functional and efficient, but the focus from a curative approach should be shifted to a preventive approach. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3244	Thank you. It's been an hour, after all. The replicas will come after taking a stand.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3245	And now we're going back to the point we were at. We have two more replicas to expose the respected representative of Cellic. First one's an honorary representative of Anka Dark Tarritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3246	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague. You mentioned the theme of the Immunological Institute and the new hospital or children's hospital in Blato. That hospital that was there was designed for something else and it experienced its present and past as it is. Somewhere three years ago, you asked the current clock of Mr. Kujundzic about the new children's hospital Blato, no matter what we call it, and then he answered you to wait for a feasibility study. Three years later, in your individual debate, you mentioned that feasibility study again, and so in this government's programme is the Immunological Institute and the new hospital in Blat. So in this tall home we've heard it a few times, and we're exactly where we were three years ago, except that the area around the hospital in Blato is cut and no longer in the grass.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3247	The answer of the esteemed representative of Cellic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3248	Yes, my dear colleague, Mr. Taritash, you remember very well, I've been asking that question to Minister Kujundzic, and I'm going to ask that question to Minister Beros. The National Children's Hospital, in my opinion, is a major health administration project for whoever is in power. I would remind you that Minister Sinisha Varga also spoke about this subject, I did not talk about the location of Blatu, the feasibility study is related to the location of Blatu, there are other alternative locations that have been proposed. Wherever there is a national children's hospital I repeat is the priority and the Croatian government, whoever is at the head of it is obliged to enable the citizens of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3249	The next replica is respected MPs Dalia Oreskovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3250	I suggest you respect your profession's opinions and make a university hospital instead of a children's hospital. But what I'm saying is that every citizen of ours who's heard a sentence about how our health care system is functional has probably remained deeply upset and humiliated in his rights. Our health system is all but ineffective and because none of the ministers had the courage, responsibility, will and knowledge to catch up with the basic structural problems of the way the health system was organised. We only have 3.5 billion kunas in debt according to large-scale drugs, payment deadlines extend to more than 900 days, we violate that as a state, even a law that defines that payment deadlines can only be agreed for up to 1 year. It has been said somewhere that 805 euros is the amount we issue per capita for the health system and that we are the last to invest in Europe. The problem is... /The speakers speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3251	The answer of the esteemed representative of Cellic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3252	Mr. Vice President. My colleague Oreshkovic is always 60 seconds short. I appreciate your opinion, but I don't agree with him. For 20 years, I've been working at the Witch Psychology Clinic, and I can tell you that the system is very functional, there are debts in health care. Would you deny children with spinal muscle atrophy medication? So genetic therapy is 2 million and 200 thousand euros, promising results very much for spinal muscle atrophy. If you see what all HZZO pays and how much the costs are for particularly expensive medicines then we must have this situation, but health reform includes hospital and health care reform that needs to be driven away in a different way, but this is now another topic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3253	The next debate will be the respected representative of Michel Jaksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3254	The Honorable Chairman of the Academy, Reiner, dear colleagues and colleagues, good afternoon, nice greeting to all. And what I would like to emphasise in the very beginning of my debate is that I have no doubt that the accounting financial all this that comes today on behalf of the Ministry of Finance in front of Minister Zdravko Marić is the type of top without any and least mistake. It does not occur to me at all to dispute neither interest nor how it is presented in front of financial markets and financial creditors because I must say there are several mandates backwards, starting from Boris Lalovac to Minister Zdravko Marić we have a new generation of Croatian finance ministers, which I can say that they are doing a fair job from the point of view of the profession itself. But what I would like to ask as a question today is, and I also had a similar debate at the debate on the government's trust where the ultimate political content is and in which direction and why we are going or indeed going to the Croatian public, Croatian citizens, in front of this Assembly, parliamentary representatives and MPs, with lists of good wishes. It is not at all disputed that we all want you to be 22 billion euros, that we want to change this country for the better, but the key issue that comes at the very beginning is, when you're doing business with European and financial institutions, you're doing it based on some business plan, and we haven't seen what our business plan is to date and what we promised them, we said, how and why and in what time we'll do it, so we can withdraw those funds and we can transfer to what we allegedly have planned. The word structural reform has passed several times, we choose as a Croatian policy every few years one word and then we spend it so long as we don't spend it. So long as it is no longer clear to anyone what that word means or what it carries. We once had an evaluation, an evaluation, inflation, a transition, and now we have clearly chosen the word of structural reform, and what I would personally like to finally begin to be here and that the ruling start to seek consensus with the opposition is what structural reforms are and what we have ultimately promised the EU Commission that we will do. It's a little strange that in 2020, after 20 years of saying that this country needs structural reforms, we look forward to the future because we are going to structural reforms, but maybe it's not too late. But in order to determine what reforms these are, we need to start talking about them. We should finally talk about what we've drawn up, sent to the EU a commission on this money, and what we're going to do with local and regional self-government because I think we all agree here that removing deputies and reducing councils and councilors and perhaps a functional merger of some municipalities by now is still an unclear key, is not the right reform of local and regional self-government. The second is, which is tax reform and how it will reflect the functioning of the unit of local and regional self-government because this latest tax reform that is announced will release some of the resources of the local and regional self-government units, and we also know that the deficit of municipalities, cities and counties means something in the deficit, and what I can say according to so far with all the finance ministries, it has always broken down on the weaker ones, and these are municipalities, cities and counties. The second question, which we will finally change in the reform of our health, because, on the one hand, talking, here comes the funds, we will rebuild the buildings, on the other hand, back in the last few weeks, each of us has a little discussion of the debt towards wholesalerry, means that we have a structural problem, ultimately, academic Rainer knows very well, we are one of the last countries in the EU in terms of health and health care staff in our health institutions and institutions. The third thing we should also finally put on the agenda is how we're going to repay those loans. We are all looking forward to growing, but it would be good to have parliamentary representatives on the basis of which we project this growth, because if we project it only on tourism and only on the idea and vision that in the second year we might have a vaccine and that there will be no Covida, the question of how much economic growth we will have in view of how much our agriculture is, and also a good part of the industry is just facing our tourism. These are questions to which we should give our own answers and after that, I think it will be the least of a problem to find the general and national consensus in which we want this country to go and how we want to become a society with which I believe every parliamentary representative and representative in this House is ready and willing to fight and sacrifice and deny. In vague conditions, we return to the lists of good wishes and we do not have the ultimate answers why and why someone is funding us, and we know that some paper and document must exist. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3255	We have several replicas, the first respected representative of Dalia Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3256	Here, on the topic of health reform and how we use EU funds. I'll draw attention to the Silver Hospital that's heard in previous individual exhibitions. So, that December of last year, it was a hospital that successfully operated, had no debts, had no dues, had the right to co-finance a 60m-euro project. Afterwards they got involved in the business of the hospital of private interests, the people responsible and responsible for this project were removed, and the current health minister did not arrive in this, of course, but in the last term he did absolutely nothing to investigate or solve it in accordance with those powers he had. That's why I'm calling him straight from this assembly. Also, I would like to point out that many hospitals that were attached to the Clinical Hospital Center of Zagreb had previously done well, and today KBC Zagreb is one of the largest I owe you one. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3257	Dear Representative Michel Jaksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3258	So what I have to admit to my colleague Oreshkovic is that I really don't have enough information, except for the media writings, how and why something happened in Srebrenica. I don't doubt your discussion, but what I can say from the corner of Koprivnica, even other cities, because we don't have hospitals just in Zagreb, is that the vast majority of the health system is cramping in debt. The fact is that there are certain non-transparentities everywhere, but the fact is that our doctors, nurses, are doing the right job. That's what they proved by the crown of the crisis. But you can see in the end when everything is summed up, when everything is summed up, when the line is drawn, that it is definitely that the ultimate institutional framework and institutional support do not take over and lag behind.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3259	The next replica is the respected representative Zeljko Pavic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3260	Dear Chairman, dear colleague Jaksic. You presented several problems in your presentation. The first problem is that it is probably not the whole public aware that the money that has been negotiated is not and is not used to charge the budget is the project, it is the money that is intended for the projects, and unfortunately the projects do not have enough. We have another problem currently in Croatia that we have decided to take the strategy top down, and not botto up and the current strategy national is not adopted, neither the county strategies or regional administrations nor local self-government have been adopted. Since you are the mayor of the town of Koprivnica how this reflects on you and on your city. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3261	Dear Representative Jakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3262	So, for some personal reasons, I encourage some debates in Koprivnica because when you don't have a strategy, when you can't bring it in because we're going from top to bottom, then you just get into a situation where you're swimming about what kind of water you're carrying, and then there's a situation where you're chasing European projects because each of us is aimed at pulling as many European funds into our local and regional self-government units as possible, but you never know what's around the corner and what possible new opportunities might come in because it's not written anywhere, and no one has given you a clear framework. I hope that these funds that we have been promised and that we are discussing in part today, and that the new EU financial period will also encourage us to finally adopt a national strategy with which the unit of local and regional self-government will be able to move forward in the preparation of its strategies. And what is most important in this debate, we are going back to tax reform, again announced that cities, municipalities and counties will run out of funds, and no one answers the question of how we will absorb funds and pay our stakes in the European Funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3263	The next is the replica of the respected representative of Cellic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3264	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Jaksic, you have stated well, so it is much easier to renovate buildings materially than to take care of human resources. I'd ask you here, so we all agree that health care reform is necessary, for many years we've been talking about functional hospital mergers, here you come from Koprivnica there we have prominent orthopaedics Dr. Frost, over. The generation of one of the best orthopaedics in the Republic of Croatia, I think it would be much more logical to say such departments, specialized departments are not at three locations of Varazdin, Čakovec, Koprivnica, but to be all experts in one place, but I will not be talking about places outside of Zagreb now. In Zagreb at this time you have a duty from otorinolaringology in 6 places, and it is enough in one place. So, there is a lot of room for rationalisation and we expect this mandate to be a serious reform at last.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3265	Thank you. Dear Representative Jaksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3266	So, I'm not a health expert who you are, but I'm still just a financier, but absolutely, we just have to make up our mind and take this as a big opportunity for what needs and courage, but it's going to take some political steps from all the political poles, to put these topics on the table, and just give everyone our best shot at finding a consensus. I think we who are here in the assembly as mayors, mayors and mayors know very well that for many topics you are looking for a consensus because we are all ultimately taking care of our town about Koprivnica and Bakr and perhaps it can be a good incentive through this European story that such an atmosphere prevails in the Croatian Parliament as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3267	The next debate will be a respected representative called Brumnic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3268	Good afternoon and welcome to the chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I am sorry that there is no minister here because I have just wanted to commend him in the way he presented the point that we have today in front of us and the way he responded to the replicas, thus showing that we can really discuss it constructively in this assembly. I think that none of us here in this Chamber are unaware that after the crown of the crisis Croatia does not have fiscal capacity that would help it get out of trouble alone and that this kind of responsibility agreed is not unexpected. The more I think it's well arranged, so the need for money was there, the interest is acceptable. But what's being asked is that I asked myself a similar question when the government presented the program here. What are our objectives, and why do these objectives have no quantifiable data or something to monitor what the government will spend money on, and what will citizens actually get out of it? It would be good if the government, when it comes to the Croatian Parliament, had a clear idea of what it wants to achieve with the money it lends in this case because all the money the government spends is either taken from the citizens or borrowed to be spent, I hope for the benefit of these citizens, and then the citizens should in some way know what benefit they get every time their money is spent. Here's what I'm saying. I won't be long. A colleague before me said a lot of what might have to be done in the government program, so it would be clearer here what's going to happen. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3269	Thank you very much. The next individual debate is the esteemed representative of Stipan Shahlin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3270	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I want to say just one thing about where I come from, practically from the right bank of the Danube, or from Baranja from the small municipality of Draž Osijek-Baranja County, exactly where he mentioned a recent colleague in a discussion who still has one part in some way inaccessible or through the Danube, but it is now another point for the other and a much longer discussion about it. In the main only apropo of this I will say that if you want to solve this problem for dialogue it takes two, and unfortunately this dialogue still does not exist because the opposite party does not want to talk about it at all and it is indeed a very complex problem. But that's not what I want to talk about today, most of all, this one would like to look back on how we from the east of the Republic of Croatia look at this problem that we're talking about today, the one that's been having a hard time and what's bothering me as the head of the municipality, and all my other colleagues in Baranja, as well as in Osijek-Baranja County. We know that the economic and economic situation in this area of Eastern Slavonia and Baranja and before the covid of the crisis was extremely complex and difficult, of course this crisis has further agreed and that here we are all trying together to find ways, exits and solutions both as well as best and as quickly as possible, not. But if it wasn't all that black, and a series of positive examples that have occurred in the last few years, or in the mandate of the last government, can be listed in this space. So, for example. Here's my community that has some kind of original budget somewhere around 7 million kuna thanks to just withdrawing funds from EU projects, that budget last year was in 2019. Somewhere over 20 million kunas. Also, at the level of Osijek-Baranja County, we can say that around 48% is increased and the income and budget of Osijek-Baranja County compared to 2017, which in some ways leads to the conclusion that if desired, if there is a quality team, if there are quality people who can prepare quality projects, nominated and later realized. But what is most of the problems we are facing, and right here today we have talked a lot about having to prepare quality for the upcoming period in order to better absorb the possibility of these around 20, 22 billion, billions of euro available to us. First of all, I say from my own experience what, which was our biggest problem and what is the biggest problem is especially small I tell the JLS, it's a problem of pre-financing of projects because often these projects really require relatively big money for local unit budgets and simply many units give up in advance because they are not able to provide their own funds for pre-financing of these projects. Also, a percentage of some 15 percent for co-financing of projects is also often a problem, and I think it is necessary to find solutions of quality to ensure in time the funds available to JLS to even enter into the realization of such projects, right. I think one of the possible solutions for, for, for these problems is just to increase the advances in the project implementation process, so these advances are up to 50%. However, if it is a few million kunas for small municipalities and this is a problem, so I say it would be necessary to secure through favourable credit lines or HBOR or often and County subsidise such loans so that these funds are secured in time. I'm saying that if there were positive examples, I could say a lot of them here, one of them is safe and the project "Wish" where, in the district of Osijek-Baranja somewhere around 1300 women are employed right through project or somewhere around, about 21 million kuna. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3271	Thank you very much. We also have on your presentation of the replicas, the first to be respected representatives of Mariana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3272	A colleague spoke about Slavonia and Baranja, who has great potential for the development of agriculture and the development of continental tourism and just in his area of Baranja, we see these good examples. However, it is absolutely certain that it is right if we want this money provided at EU level of EUR 22 billion to be used in a good way, to come into the right hands, to have good programming, but that we also need to help small JLS in order to close up that part of co-financing that often causes the problem because the idea at local level has and they are good and they are sure that local people can best identify what projects they are, but they need assistance in realisation.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3273	The answer of Honorable Representative Shashin.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3274	Thank you. My colleagues, here's how I said positive experiences we already have, we'll try to say it both in a way and with the support of the government and with the support of the resolution ministries and in the future as best and as fast as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3275	The next replica of the esteemed Greek representative, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3276	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Shashin, I agree with you on pre-financing and co-financing. Pre-financing should play a key role for HBOR, and for co-financing there some time ago in 2014 when I was minister we set up the JLS Co-financing Fund. I am truly sorry today that as soon as the new government arrived, it was abolished because these were cumulative funds, so the funds from this year were raised with next year's funds, etc. And there would really have one respectable number of co-financing money for the weakest JLS. At the time, however, he was interested in moving the money quickly for small capital investments and disappeared. Afterwards we had it in the budget, but unfortunately in small amounts and not quite enough.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3277	Dear Representative Shashin.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3278	Thank you. Yeah, that was, but here's the government found other ways, and that's primarily through favourable lending or borrowing of JLS. We're lucky to have the county involved in this by subsidising the loan or interest, so here I'm saying, it's only normal that local self-government units have to take care of fiscal opportunities with their own resources as much as they can, right?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3279	Thank you very much, I will conclude the debate on these three points, and we will vote on them when the conditions are met. We will now move on to the next point, which is: - The proposal for a decision on the participation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the peace support operation "Sea Guardian" in the Mediterranean is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia under Article. 54. Defence Act and Art. 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Defence Committee. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Honorable Defence Minister Mario Banozic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3626	Dear Vice-President, distinguished MPs and representatives of the Croatian Parliament. The "Sea Guardian" Peace Support Operation was launched by NATO in November 2016, which contributes to maritime situational information, development of maritime security, ensuring freedom of navigation as well as the development of the capabilities of partner countries in the Mediterranean. This operation provides operational assistance and cooperates with the EUNAVFOR MED IRINI operation implemented by the EU to implement Resolution 2292 of the UN Security Council. Operation Sea Guardian has significantly improved security in the Mediterranean and has ensured the consistency of the committed resources of the EU and NATO Member States in achieving common security objectives due to their flexibility in action. Use of adaptation plans caused by reducing the number of operational resources for the implementation of the "Sea Guardian" operation and the size of the area of operation, the operational plan of operations allows the engagement of NATO Member States and in shorter periods in areas of special interest. The success of this operation has a direct impact on potential security threats and the maintenance of a safe and stable situation in the nearer area and the Adriatic Sea area, which has a significant direct impact on both the Croatian economy and social development. The Croatian Army is maintaining co-operation with the regional Navy and the Allied Navy Command. Through the exchange of information on the security situation at sea, for preventive action with the protection of common interests. Since it is a joint peace support operation in order to protect common interests as well as the opportunities to engage the Armed Forces in the protection of national interests in the area of close proximity to state territory which is of great importance to the Republic of Croatia and beyond, it is proposed to adopt this Decision. In addition to direct protection of national interests at sea, the participation of this operation would be a continuation of the visible contribution of the Republic of Croatia to allied efforts to ensure joint safety at sea within the framework of national capabilities and available resources. This would continue the process of developing the capabilities of our Armed Forces for joint action with the forces of other NATO member states as well as the development of defence and protection capabilities for the national interests of the Republic of Croatia as well as the fundamental tasks of the Croatian Army. In September 2018, our Armed Forces already participated in this operation with 33 members and the Vukovar ship. During their participation in the operation, tasks were carried out under the operational plan and guidelines of the Allied Navy Command in the central part of the Mediterranean. On the basis of the breakdown after returning from the operation, it has been established that Helsinki class ships have the ability to carry out their tasks in the operation and that the implementation of experience gained and lessons learned from the operation significantly improves HRM's ability to carry out assigned missions and tasks. Based on experience gained in September 2019, we again participated in the operation with 33 members of the Armed Forces and the ship Dubrovnik. To show professionality and performance and success in carrying out the task and contribute to improving maritime security, the commander of the Allied Naval Command expressed his gratitude and commended our members who participated in the Peace Support Operation "Sea Guardian" in the Mediterranean. I therefore propose to the Croatian Parliament that the Peace Support operation "Sea Guardian" in the Mediterranean in 2020 be directed up to 35 members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia by ship HRM. Planned reference to the operation of Dubrovnik from the Helsinki class in early September of this year for about 20 days. The financial resources for the implementation of this Decision shall be secured in the national budget of the Republic of Croatia for the division of the Ministry of Defence amounting to around €1.2 million. In accordance with the Defence Act on this proposal for a decision, the previous agreement was given by the President of the Republic of Croatia. Dear MPs and representatives of the Croatian Parliament, please support this decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3627	Thank you very much. We have two replicas, the first respected representative of Ante Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3628	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Minister, first congratulations on the Secretary of Defense's election to this honorable duty, I wish you good luck. With regard to this decision, as mentioned in HRM, I will not be out of the subject, we will remain on the Navy, but I am interested in the past assembly of both the Ministry and this Assembly, we have talked a lot, but we have also done a lot of work on modernising the General Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, and I am particularly interested in the construction of patrol ships that will serve the HRM and should be built in Croatia, in Croatian squares, as long as the modernisation and cannons and the construction of new coastal patrol ships continue as planned and will we continue to invest in HRM in this meeting of the ministry? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3629	Thank you very much. It's not exactly on the subject, but here it is, the minister will answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3630	So far, more than 24 million kunas have been invested in the project, the first prototype has been made and the first ship is being built at the moment, so the project continues. We are in the talks here and with the Ministry of Regional Development and the EU funds not only on ships but also on the whole industry, to see how it can be used primarily in researching development, both in this case of shipbuilding and in other industries, where the military industry can be involved, both in research and development, and tomorrow... We look at the use of the product. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3631	The next is a replica of the respected representative Ivan Celic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3632	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister with his associates. On this occasion, I would like to point out that at the head of the European Maritime Safety Agency, Croatia's Maja Markovčić Kostelac, who is taking care of maritime safety in some other way. I believe that peace support operations are this time engaged by the Croatian Navy are an opportunity for international cooperation for education and for strengthening the Croatian Navy. Our army has already shown excellent readiness in such actions, and without a strong and modern navy you cannot simply function in today's world full of challenges especially as regards the security aspect.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3633	Thank you very much. Does the committee reporter want to take the floor? Yeah. Dear Franko Vidovic president of the Defence Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3634	... congratulations on choosing a new duty. So, at the 1st session held on 29 July 2020, the Defence Committee of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposal for a decision on the participation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the peace support operation "Sea Guardian" in the Mediterranean, which was submitted by the Government of the Croatian Parliament by an act of 24 July 2020. In addition to the proposal for a decision, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has also delivered a decision on the prior consent of the President of the Republic of Croatia and the Supreme Commander of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. The Committee shall be based on the Article. 71. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed the decision in question as a parent working body. In his opening statement, the proposal's representative stressed that the "Sea Guardian" NATO-led operation began in 2016 to contribute to the maritime situation... to the development of regional maritime security, to support the fight against terrorism, to ensure freedom of navigation, to carry out maritime interception tasks, to contribute to the fight against proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, to protect key infrastructure, and to help develop the capabilities of the partner countries' war vessels in the Mediterranean. Operation Sea Guardian provides operational assistance and cooperates with the EUNAVFOR MED IRINI operation conducted by the EU. Furthermore, the proposer pointed out that the success of the operation has a direct impact on the potential security threats and security insurance in the nearer area of the Adriatic Sea, which directly affects Croatian economic social development. Until now, the Republic of Croatia has participated twice in the "Sea Guardian" operation with 33 members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia and ships of the Croatian Navy. Further involvement in the Allied operation would continue the process of developing the capabilities of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia to work together with the forces of the NATO member states, as well as the development of capabilities to defend and protect national interests. By participating in a peace support operation, the Republic of Croatia also confirms its credibility as a NATO member. It is proposed to refer to the Peace Support Operation Sea Guardian in the Mediterranean in 2020 to 35 members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia by boat of the Croatian Navy. In the debate, the members of the committee pointed out that this peace support operation was one of those that complemented the ability and readiness of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia and that the commander of Markom expressed the readiness of our members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia and for their participation so far praised for the proven professionality, impact and contribution to the improvement of maritime security. After the debate was held, the committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament a decision on the participation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the peace support operation "Sea Guardian" in the Mediterranean. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3635	Thank you very much. Now we're moving on to the debate. I am opening the debate and the first one on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club will speak to the respected representative Angelko Strick. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3636	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. We are ahead of us with a decision on the participation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the peace support operation "Sea Guardian" in the Mediterranean. When we discuss sending our members of the armed forces to the mission's retirement, it is good to remind ourselves that in the early 1990s, we as a state have used such peacekeeping missions on our territory, so that already in 1999 our soldiers would participate in the first international missions in Sierra Leone, since then our soldiers, officers and officers have participated in peacekeeping missions under the auspices of NATO, the EU and the UN in areas 27 or 28 of the world. These data tells us enough how many crisis hotspots there are around the world today. The Peace Support Operation "Sea Guardian" is a NATO-led operation that contributes to the development of regional maritime security, the fight against terrorism, ensuring freedom of navigation and the fight against proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, the protection of key infrastructure and the development of the capabilities of warships of partner countries in the Mediterranean. This is the third time we've sent our armed forces on a peacekeeping mission like this, so far they've been on September 3rd to 24th and also in 2019 from 30.08 to 17. It turns out that in this peace operation, we send more or less of our soldiers at the end of August and in early September. This is sent to 35 members of the Armed Forces and is intended primarily to raise the security issue or contribute to peace. In addition, what matters to our soldiers is that they cooperate with other Mediterranean armies. Because among other things, we are a Mediterranean state, and I think it's important that we know what is literally happening in our backyard, especially because of the new circumstances surrounding Libya. Wherever our soldiers participated in peace operations, they were praised and rewarded everywhere. It has also been common for countries seeking international aid to participate in peacekeeping missions by themselves. I think they're also great promoters of our country. And also important to emphasize that they are well-trained, trained, equipped. And among other things, recently in the past year, two in the peace missions go all equipped with Croatian products, which is also important to highlight. I can therefore only conclude here that the Croatian Democratic Community Club will support the adoption of this Decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3637	Thank you very much. The next will be the Croatian Sovereigns' Club in the name of which the respected representative Zeljko Sacic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3638	Thank you. The Honorable President, the Honorable Ladies and Gentlemen of Representatives and MPs, Your Honor, the Proposer. We as the Club of Croatian Sovereigns certainly support this proposal without any reservations, and with great satisfaction and honor, we can actually join in congratulating our Croatian armed forces around the world in all these missions, 17 if they are there, protecting and promoting international relations, security, expanding the reputation of Croatia as the best ambassador of Croatian peacemaking and at the same time witness of a difficult struggle for the survival of the Croatian people of the 1990s in the Homeland Defence War and as such and living witnesses, followers, heirs in the best manner, actually respecting the Charter of the United Nations and all those associations in which we are in the alliance from the European Union to the NATO Pact do what we think and what they think at that time is best for humanity or for the region where they appear. As Croatian sovereigns, however, we will certainly give this respected House of the Croatian People, as well as the executive government proposals. Our resources are not boundless. We must certainly refer the Croatian youth to the further continuation of these famous Croatian traditions of military skills, martial arts. We believe that at this point our Croatian army, very soon you will come to this conclusion, if you have not already, is very weakly equipped down and around our maritime part. Not to mention the Croatian Air Force that we can only talk about. We must as the Croatian people and the Croatian state take care of these resources. We have to worry about that future. We must take care of Croatian youth who must have access to other civilised countries in other geostrategic endangered areas, and Croatia is in this area. We have to worry, it's our responsibility for the security of the people, the state and all the citizens who live here and the regions where we exist as neighbors do. So we experience the Croatian army in the best possible light as it deserves it. She's a promoter of all of us in the world, but she needs to be invested in. Security costs. On the other hand, we have a huge problem at our state borders, dear Franco Vidovic, you know that very well. We must, we have legal opportunities, we have, Your Honor, excuse me, we have legal, constitutional possibilities, and we dear friends have to think about what's going to happen now at the end of the summer, which in the fall. We must not allow not only the security risk to which we are exposed because of illegal immigration, the attacks of people desperate for bread, but without respecting the borders, not respecting those of the Croatian people and the state of Croatia. They cross, they want to cross. Bosnia and Herzegovina is putting them together just like that. That's not what a friend of a friend does, a good neighbor doesn't do it to make him camp for refugees, illegal immigrants five miles from the border. Why do they do that? We have to ask our diplomacy. Yeah? There are other models. And now we're kind of resisting when it comes to the big crisis down in Greece, so the European Union is behind us. But it wasn't that kind of time. Now we are here actually fenced by Hungarians, and Slovenians. Here, we're with one foot in the Schengen area, but we're not in yet. It may be realistic that these waves that have been stopped because of Covid are still intense because it is not right that, on a daily basis, our colleagues on the border have an army, they have their own safety, they have obstacles, they have a barbed razor wire and that every month their border police officers say to us every month that Croatians are doing your job, border cops, the security system right because we are actually correcting your mistakes. They report every month or every two months to the Croatian public that there, this one, they have arrested from a thousand and a half to even four or five thousand illegal migrants, so they have passed all of Croatia, reached the border with Italy where the Slovenians arrested them, processed them, and, of course, repatriated them or brought them back in accordance with the Marrakech and who knows what kind of agreement. We need to know that the potentials of the border police who are doing their job are correct, but they are too limited, in fact, and the Croatian military will eventually have to put the full function of our borderline, put them in a phase of logistics, put them in a phase of some intelligence tasks, whether at a stage of certain other jobs that are appropriate, of course none of us normal people thinks that with schmeisters, machine guns's nests, Croatian soldiers will come to the border and shoot, dead guards like it was in Yugoslavia, Albania or anywhere else, but we will have to adapt, it is in the interest of Croatian citizens, the future to get rid of it. The military period in Croatia must be put on the agenda for our youth, and not in the form that we are used to in SFRY, and even as in the early days of the Homeland War in Croatia, but it must be adapted to modern times and modern these examples in some European countries, and not to speak further outside European countries, it means that ‘it’s been given by camps twice a month, in a way we must to Croatian youth who is interested and who must, we must give them the opportunity to learn to defend ourselves, that we have not learned in the former JNA defend our country, we would not even defend it. Who would defend? Who would shoot a mortar, who would shoot a hoodie, who would do anything else if that enemy JNA hadn't taught us? God forbid we get into a situation where we have to use it. There are other times today. There will be no mortars, I don't believe, shoot, but we have the opportunity to defend someone, it's our sacred duty. And therefore, dear friends, I have gone a little bit from defence, security and general principles of peace in the Mediterranean until the military deadline in Croatia, but thank God to Croatian sovereigns is Croatian security on the heart. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3639	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives should be the MOST of Independent Lists and should have spoken to the respected representative Miro Bulj, gone, lost his right to speak, and then the next one will speak on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, the respected representative Franco Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3640	Thank you, dear Vice President. So here's to starting with a little privatization of the pay phone, a respected representative, and I can tell my dear colleague, Mr. Sacic, I don't think the refugee issue will only be solved with Croatian politics because it's not just a Croatian problem, so the problem is much wider without... and without a clear relationship and strategy on how to behave, I don't think a police force that is now making unmistakable efforts, but also military implementation, or anything at the border will solve this problem for Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, that, we are not an island alone in the world, we are integrated into the European Union, and in NATO, we have to act like a serious state, like a state that knows what YES, and what NO, after all, these migrants, whatever someone is saying about these people, are just people in trouble, and nothing more, and nothing less than that, so we have to act like human society, have a sense of measure, so don't exaggerate in anything. At this point, the pressure is no longer as close as it was in 2015, 2016, and it is a good thing that it is not, rather, we have enough problems with COVID as well, and with everything else, so let's wait for Europe to finally respond, that... design a policy, because the basic goal of such a policy should be how these people stay home, not how we solve them when they get to the border, that's a huge problem on one side. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As far as this mission itself is concerned, yes, I absolutely welcome this mission and the SDP Club will support participation in this mission. Here I will begin with a sentence that is there, as in the reasons and objectives of making the Decision, the high dynamics of security challenges in the Mediterranean area, requires constant presence of forces at sea with the aim of preventing potential threats, surveillance and ensuring freedom of navigation and peaceful use and exploitation of waterways and natural resources, also the success of the peace support operation has a direct effect on potential security threats and maintaining a safe and stable situation in the nearer area and the Adriatic Sea area, which has a significant direct impact on the Croatian economy and social development in its entirety. So, it is not disputed that the HRM has the abilities needed to participate in this mission at this time, but we must ask ourselves, and that is the belief of the topic we will be dealing with', I do not expect now the answer from you, no one is a wizard, it is the subject we will be dealing with 'probably next, next time, and I certainly hope for the next four years, which is the condition of the Croatian Navy, the state of the Coast Guard as in the end, knows that too many problems at once, and the situation of the Croatian Air Force. I firmly hold all of us who are in the SDP Club that Croatia must not lose the ability of Croatian Air Force, and on the other hand as regards the Coast Guard and the Croatian Navy, I think after some 12 years of life, that the time has come to review the role of the Croatian Navy, and the Coast Guard and their mutual synergy, or whether this is the best way to function, so more than I see any positive results in the progress of the Croatian Navy, and I do not see them in the progress of the Coast Guard, if we are all equally responsible and guilty of that part, if we will call it a success, then I am afraid that we have very small goals, that we have been set up as well. Therefore, I think that a full analysis, a serious analysis, the sum of analysis, the practical action of such a united one or what would happen, the perspective, which would happen if the coast guard were really put under civil administration because it also opens up the possibility and funding of the coast guard if we negotiate in the EU, from EU funds. In this way we practically have the capacity of HRM, the money that we spend in the military budget is practically spent on the coast guard, and the coast guard in most countries or is paramilitary in 99% of the countries, either it's paramilitary or it's civilian. We're the only example I think of what I've been able to examine, we're the only example where we have practically military civil protection, coast guard, I apologize. So here's one question to think about, this synergy, whether it's good, whether it contributes to the development of both kinds of abilities, or maybe it'd be better if we all sat together, so let's do these analyses and eventually take the ballad to decide what to do next. As far as I'm concerned, the operation itself is absolutely what we support and the SDP Club will vote in favour of this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3641	Thank you very much. We're moving on to an individual debate, and the first one will be spoken by the esteemed representative Davor Ivo Stier, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3642	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. This is one of the most important decisions that HS must make in accordance with Article. The 7th Constitution, which says that members of the armed forces cannot be referred to international missions without a decision of the assembly and we are discussing this today and we will decide tomorrow at the vote. And I think that we must support this proposal coming from the Croatian government, first because of our national security, so the security of the Mediterranean directly affects our national security and this "SEA GUARDIAN" operation in this context really contributes to it. Secondly, I believe less important, but it should be pointed out that this NATO operation is an operation that is performed in full cooperation and synergy and with the EU, therefore one of the examples where, two associations, where the Republic of Croatia is a full member and where there is an aspirations to develop the same within the EU as the defence component, and yet there is no duplication. This is one of these examples where resources can be used well and where both the EU and NATO alliance can work well together. And the third, of course, is an important decision for the further development and functioning of the HRM. I remember while I was still working on our ongoing NATO alliance mission when the first strategic defence review was made, so there was a debate on what role it was going to play, whether there would be any role for the Navy at all, or if we would only be aware that we had a coast guard or maybe some model that ended up being chosen on the basis of some experiences and models from Norway, as much as I remember where the resources of the Navy were combined, but also coast guard functions, however, where the classic capabilities of the Navy were preserved as well. And later with a long-term plan for the development of the armed forces, so a document that had to be carried out after a strategic defence review where a decision was made to go to the purchase of new Helsinki class ships that are now being used in this operation. Therefore, it seems to me that although, of course, both periodically and alone, these documents require revision, it seems to me that this operation is justified among other things and we must support it precisely because of the development of HRM, for all that it means, first for our national security and of course for the maritime tradition of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3643	Thank you very much. Your exposure has caused quite a number of replicas, the first one will be spoken by a respected representative of Ante Deur.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3644	Dear Vice President, dear ministers, dear colleagues and colleagues. First of all, congratulations to the Minister on this honorable duty that HS has shown you. First of all, this is a continuity that surely the Navy has before with the Dubrovnik boat, the Vukovar, now with the Dubrovnik boat. Surely this is the ability of the HV that we show together with the members of other NATO countries, and the security of this nearby part around the Adriatic Sea, and it certainly gives one strength and all together, this is one opportunity for us to support this continuity because it is certainly one ability of the HV that is good for all of us, and I think that this way, this security and the ability together we all need to support. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3645	The answer of the esteemed counsel Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3646	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Deur, I agree with you that this is a continuity and fulfillment of those decisions and commitment that we have made in our preparation for NATO entry when we were doing strategic documents such as a strategic defence review, when we had to decide which powers we wanted to retain and develop further at national level, so we made this strategic decision that we wanted to have a Croatian Navy, so in this respect this operation is certainly a confirmation of that decision that we made then and that we are still fulfilling it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3647	The next is a replica of the respected representative Matko Kuzmanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3648	Dear Vice President, I will take this opportunity first to congratulate the newly elected Prime Minister on taking office and hope that he will not continue on the way the ministry went in the last term. What pleases me very much here and makes me happy is that we have a consensus in addition to these important issues, but what I expect from the new minister is to seriously review the system of homeland security that has been discussed a lot in this assembly, and also to review some of the decisions that have been made so far because unfortunately in the past term, the Ministry of Defence has become a symbol of suspicious and hidden procurement, in part and corruption, in part and unfortunately certain tragedies, poor judgments and security failures. There, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3649	My colleague Bačić has been injured by the Rules of Procedure. What has the Rules of Procedure been injured?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3650	He was injured in Article 238. I apologize, bringing out such untrue corruption and secret procurement, the Ministry of Defence in the period of Minister Krstic's 3 years has a 100% open purchase for all, no secret contracts, nothing. So from where, I don't understand why bringing out such terrible lies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3651	My colleague Bačić, this is not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, I ask you nicely not to abuse this institution of breach of the Rules of Procedure, because carrying out false lies would be a violation of the Rules of Procedure, and I must evaluate probably all should receive some kind of warning. So, please, I can neither judge whether anyone is telling the truth or not telling a lie, whether it's true, whether he's telling it incorrectly, and it's not my part, but the breach of the Rules of Procedure isn't this. Thank you very much. Dear Representative Deur, I hope it's not something like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3652	Dear Vice President, the arrival of Minister Krstic's Croatian army has really gained one capacity.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3653	You can't, you can't, please don't, it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, I'm asking you nicely please look at what's written in the Rules of Procedure and what's the breach of the Rules of Procedure. The next is the replica, the answer I'm sorry, the answer to the esteemed counsel of Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3654	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here I am already congratulating the new minister, and when you talk to active military personnel, you will only hear the best about Minister Krstičević and I am pleased that the commander-in-chief of the armed forces and him will also honor him, surely it is deserved not only because of what he did during the Homeland War. As for any other one of your illusions, you need to be very specific or else it devalues the fight against corruption if it is not clear and concrete. Therefore, I would ask you to be very precise and concrete in the future, because it should be not politics but a truly common struggle, as I am sure we all agree that this good for national security too, a great contribution to this is certainly given by Minister Krsticevic during his term of office.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3655	Thank you. The next one is the respected representative of Ante Bacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3656	Thank you, Vice President. You have well emphasized all the importance and components of precisely co-operation in this peace mission, peace operation and ties between NATO itself and the EU and why this is all important for the Mediterranean and that component that we have not discussed so much, and it would be good to emphasize it, precisely this new ability of the Croatian Navy. So, these missions do not benefit us exclusively for the sake of visibility and self-cooperation with our allies in NATO, but precisely the abilities we need in the Adriatic Sea, means all these experiences that our sailors will later bring, which will also pass through military universities but also through cooperation with their colleagues will help our coast guard, and normal and preservation of our territory especially on this sea side.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3657	Your Honor, Mr. Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3658	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow you have said well that synergy is the key word at EU and NATO level that we do not double that we do not use or develop parallel defence systems but that we use what is common when we have common objectives, and indeed fight terrorism, safety of navigation, freedom of navigation in the Mediterranean is one goal common to all members of either NATO or the EU or in the case of Croatia that we are members of both one and other associations. Also synergy at national level, so that we also use the Croatian Navy with all its capacities in functions that are the classic functions of one navy, therefore in these defensive functions, but can also be used for coast guard functions. It is a practice that has been agreed on, during the preparation of this strategic defence review and I think it proved to be good, of course it's possible [[Intruder: Thank you.]] having audits, but so far it's been positive. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3659	The next replica is the respected representative of Frank Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3660	Thank you, dear Vice President. Well, my colleague Stier can say in principle, I can't understand every word because of these masks but in principle I agree with you, but as far as HRM itself is concerned, and as far as the Coast Guard is concerned, so after 12 years of functioning, the problem is that the Helsinki-type ships I think were purchased even before, and after that only one patrol ship was built. So, the Croatian Navy as one, as a very important ability, as a very important resource after all because the sea is our contact with the whole world in principle, I think we need to throw even stronger emphasis on the development of it, but at the same time the coast guard must not leave because it is also a European condition. So how we're going to get along after 12 years in all this is up to us. That's what we have to decide now, that's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3661	Your Honor, Mr. Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3662	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So exactly the purpose of these periodic audits is that all new circumstances can be considered. You're some of the mentions. What kind of decisions will that be, and the profession will give its opinion, and ultimately it will be a political decision. What is certainly clear is that such operations contribute except for our national security and development of the HRM, and then indirectly to the industry, shipbuilding, especially to the military industry.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3663	The next replica is the esteemed MPs of Vesna Nadj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3664	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Stier, you will agree that behind this operation it is necessary that we have extraordinary trained members of the Croatian Navy which we actually have. But we also need to have high-quality ships. Quality ships need to be designed somewhere. Since 1948 we have a Brodar Institute which is now a limited-responsibility society owned by the Republic of Croatia. I invite you to visit the Brodar Institute to see how destructive the environment is and to do something with this Brodar Institute to find a strategic partner and to function the Brodar Institute as necessary for the Croatian Navy. Minister Banozic was also Minister of State Property, and he is certainly on his way to this story. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3665	Thank you. Your Honor, Mr. Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3666	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and quite certainly the decision we are going to make tomorrow, and as far as I understand it, the SDP will support as our NATO membership in general will not solve everything. There's what we have to do and what our homework is. But this participation in this operation, as with other NATO membership, can certainly come in handy, there is one additional impulse to solve certain problems where they arise. For example. NATO membership alone meant a lot to the Queen when it was possible to serve in this way, for example. American ships. These are some elements that can serve us as an experience so that these remaining topics, and you mentioned one, can be solved.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3667	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Angel Strick.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3668	Comrade Stier, you have devoted part of your debate to the home security system, among other things, you have been a representative and in the previous meeting and have testified that no government has so far been following this part with so much attention as the former, and obviously now and the future one that has been voted. A National Security Strategy was adopted after 15 years. There have been numerous amendments to the law just to improve life, the standard of all components of homeland security from the military, police, civil protection, firefighters, etc. All these components have been budgeted, well equipped, trained and, of course, these peacekeeping missions also aim to exercise a little, cooperate with the countries of the European Union, the NATO Alliance and, of course, gather important information for us because we are still a Mediterranean state.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3669	Your Honor, Mr. Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3670	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. You're right. A step has really been made. What is important is to develop a concept that does not view different resolutions as silos, as something that will exclusively view its domain and not cooperate with any other ministry or service with which it should be integrated or with which it should have a very close cooperation. And such a concept of homeland security that includes this way and thus simply solves the challenges or faces challenges to our national security is one concept that has been developed in the past term and that I think was extremely good for the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3671	Thank you very much. The next individual debate is the respected representative of Ante Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3672	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the Ministers welcome you and your associates once more. I didn't mean it, but at first I have to refer to this violation of the Rules of Procedure on my colleague Kuzmanic down from Split-Dalmatia County with his request and request, so let me answer with his request and ask the new minister to be different and better than the old one just for transparency, to spend the defence budget. I have to point out and I think here's my colleague Vidovic was with me at the Defence Committee, and I think he can back me up on that. The defence budget itself, which varies between, say, 4.5 billion kuna from the increase in the previous government by a billion kuna with all purchases and modernization, I think here we are all members of the defense that you have here most of the last term, on every procurement plan we've been invited to the ministry, we've reviewed everything, we could be involved in any process. I must stress exactly the opposite of what you mention transparency and the difference in spending, of all these billions and hundreds of contracts that were mostly intended for Croatian military equipment manufacturers, I think we did then in the past meeting of both the Ministry and the Committee for the Defence of Great Matters. And I have to stress that for three years, and here's the secretary of state can correct me, that three years in a row was all public procurement open, public without going to a secret contract what is for the military and normal is if you're getting certain types of weapons that you don't want to show just the Ministry of Defense has even the right to secret contracts and secret procurement. This ministry in the past term has never exploited this right and public procurement has been fully public, open and transparent. That's just for that. As for the very system of homeland security and national security, we were just talking about something... Here is something that the Sovereignists mentioned about the revision of the strategy itself, I think that we have made big shifts just in the past session and the Ministry of Defence along with Minister Krstičević where we have distributed the military both in Vukovar and Ploče and Varazdin and Pula and have simply ensured that the Croatian army is on the ground, that the Croatian army is with citizens and that the system of homeland security along with other services of both the MUP and the firemen and the HGSSS and others is in the full range of what is in various and floods and fires, here recently and the earthquake in Zagreb has proved to be of great importance and strength of our armed forces. To get back to the topic, this is a continuation of the "Sea Guardian" peace support operation and I am glad that we have one consensus and that we will all or most of us support this very support of peace and this decision what is required of the Croatian Parliament and after the signing of the president of the state. This is the mission in which the Croatian Navy already participates as we heard with the Vukovar cannon, now the Dubrovnik ship, before there were 33 members of the Navy, will now be 35. Exceptionally retired mission, a peacekeeping mission where terrorism and prevention of conflict at sea, preventing human trafficking, but also protecting national interests from our ship, we must also stress will exclusively work to support the examination of other civilian ships in the mission itself and thus gain experience which I hope the commanders of the ship, but also our sailors will then return to the armed forces and transfer all of it. What we have highlighted is what is very important on our coast guard because here and last year I think and passed a new law after 12 years on the coast guard, something we must definitely not only invest in but rather develop and open the question of whether to remain under the Navy or to be strictly civil service. But what we all pointed out at the beginning, and I think it goes in a good direction that it is the means provided, and that is precisely the material things of the Croatian Navy, and these are new patrol ships. Prototype 1 excellently made, I don't think production should be pecked after those first little bugs that happened in the square anymore. That ship was first built, further we must build them and... /The speakers speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3673	Thank you very much. I would ask that we stick to the topic, which is a peace support operation, "Sea Guardian". We have several actually series of replicas, the first respected representative of Zeljko Sacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3674	In fact, it should certainly be reminded of the tragic cases, it has been a year since a tragedy, a terrible loss of our member of the Croatian army of the late Josip Brisko and the same task on the international mission with the wounded of his colleagues. And we are obliged by the minister to do everything to ensure, in such cases, that security is absolutely ensured after such events for all our soldiers in all missions that must be absolutely protected from all the risks that may occur to them, and in the most difficult cases of their family, which unfortunately was not the case until that time. It was only after we had the opportunity to see Minister Krsticevic had taken action, he had complemented certain measures, to take care of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3675	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative Ante Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3676	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Sucic, you did well to point out, there was just a dispute over the participation of our members of the armed forces in various missions to the peace-making aspect of security and that God does not let anything happen. We must and we all know that the Croatian soldier, regardless of whether he is in the military or on the field, is a very dangerous and risky job. But just in the last term, a great emphasis has just been placed on the safety of our armed forces, especially in these peace missions, not only in this particular area but also in Afghanistan and others to be very careful what part they will participate in and that they are not so exposed to the risks and threats that they expect there.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3677	The next is a replica of the respected representative Frank Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3678	Thank you. As for the medal for the "Storm" therefore, no former minister is awarded, but is awarded the wartime commander, Mr Krsticevic. And don't question it at all, not as a former minister, but as a warlord, just for that alone. So it's on one side. As far as spending is concerned, it was partly transparent, but what is the problem is that during this term, the Croatian military has been allowed to modernise fat. One was in the budget, and the other was in the annual reports. There you could see the difference exactly in the modernisation of the army of 200, 300, 500 million etc., so we can't say at the end if we were to assess the mandate that was quite successful. I think the current minister has a big problem with him.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3679	The answer of the respected representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3680	Thank you, Vice President. You first referred to what Comrade Stier mentioned by wartime commander and minister. Personally, as far as I'm concerned, let him be decorated as a warlord, but also as a minister. As far as the equipment of the Croatian army is concerned, I cannot agree with you, especially as you were involved. Okay, there were problems with both planes and supply and everything you first responded to and jumped to. But I think, as far as the other branches of the military and everything that's been acquired, invested, all the contracts, all the millions that have been spent, we can't say that now the Croatian Army, that the General Armed Forces are the same today and four, five or six years ago.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3681	The next replica is the respected representative Zeljko Pavic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3682	The Honorable Chairman, Your Honor. You're trying to defend the indefensible. You're talking about transparency, you're talking about honesty, but we have to point out here I haven't really read the register of public procurement. I wasn't doing an analysis, but from the media that we could see and hear, you know, which firm itself was... means that the clear supply is wrapped in a legal cellophane and a nice bow is put up, that doesn't mean it's moral and it's fair. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3683	The answer of the respected representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3684	Thank you, Vice President. My friend, you haven't read it, I advise you to read it. Two, two main highlights of what I noticed, maybe I'm wrong, let me correct both the Minister and the Secretary of State and the Secretary-General, the two highlights were no secret contracts, there were no ones, meaning transparency maximum, means all contracts public, you can shed it, there's everything on the Morh.hr and the other thing, a great emphasis was made on Croatian producers, and a large number of contracts went to Croatian producers, which I think we were all pleased that our military industry has profited greatly and developed over the last 3.4 years. So, I don't know where that gave you anything was secret or hidden. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3685	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Angel Strick.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3686	Thank you. Dear fellow Members of the Defense Committee, you have also been a member of the previous meeting, so I think you are very well acquainted with this resort. In addition to this legislative framework where amendments and amendments to a number of laws have taken place and the adoption of new ones to improve the whole system, to improve and raise the quality of the lives of soldiers, it has grown year and year and budget. Just so our soldiers are trained, trained, equipped. And that goal has been achieved. Public procurement, you have pointed out several times, and there has never been a public procurement that the constituency committee has not been invited and informed of every item that is being obtained, in what period and for what purpose. So I'm talking about really one transparent system. Also, there was no military exercise, an object being built, arranged, that parliamentary representatives were not familiar, or that the parliamentary board did not I was invited to testify. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3687	The answer of the respected representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3688	Thank you, Vice President. Well, fellow Striker, you were, and here's the other vice president of the Defense Committee, and here's what you can do, so I'm surprised my colleagues are just going to attack that side. Every public procurement of the MORH from the beginning to the finalisation of it was open and public and we were all involved in it, we could ask any question, everything was published, every member of the Defence Committee was involved in this. I'm surprised my colleagues now do not know either any political points or to open up any topic, use something that, which has been done a lot in the past, which the ministry has largely grown from year to year, invested in Croatian producers, increased the military after many years by a billion kuna, materially, financially returned to the soldiers and to the salaries and all the supplements and that now it's something negative, I'm truly surprised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3689	The next replica is the respected representative Matko Kuzmanic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3690	Thank you, Mr. President. I expected Bacic to apologize for the violation of the Rules of Procedure, but here I will apologize to him for not understanding me well. I just wanted to congratulate the new ministers, and I wish him a lot of success in his work. I don't want his plane crashes. I don't want helicopters to crash. I want armored vehicles to roll over. during his term of office. What I least wish would happen to him, or I don't want it to happen to him, to be embezzled again with some supply, like it was the purchase of an aircraft, so that my colleague Bačić, that was my opinion, and I only had a good wish when I directed it here's what I'm saying now that things like this aren't happening in the future, that you're not going on a boar hunt with military helicopters. And that during his term of office we do not have such an affair. [[Thank you. Dear Representative Bačić.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3691	Thank you, Vice President. Kolega Kuzmanić, Armed Forces are a large system with a lot of people involved. I do not believe that the new minister, that he will be able to influence every soldier normally and prevent any certain behaviour, if he had to call out that they were in the promiscuities, literally in the promiscuities, and we cannot say that the Croatian military was misbehaving or causing problems, that, from all these missions and all the activities they had here in the Republic, we were only getting praises, great thanks, and I think that after great darkness under the allegations of the Croatian Army when they were forced into military and shut down and moved from the streets, we were able to return in 3 years when the Croatian soldier was on the street, when the Croatian flag was on the street, when the honor guard was somewhere, that yet the citizens were happier and satisfied with it, regardless of what some had already locked them in the military. It's also a great success of this government.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3692	The next replica is the respected representative Josip Saric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3693	Honorable Vice President, honourable MPs and MPs. Dear colleague Bacic. I would just like to remind you of what you mentioned earlier in your speech, the status of Croatian soldiers, that by restoring the status of Croatian soldiers, such as the Croatian soldier deserves, not only the Croatian soldier, but all the employees of the Ministry of Defence have returned our pride to the Croatian soldier and the HV who, in my opinion, has been significantly violated. It is this fact and gratitude that I would say that it belongs to former Minister Krstic and his associates and here to present State Secretary Tomislav Ivić and to all the people who have worked on it, and I am confident that this will be so in the future and I would like to congratulate the new Minister Banozic and to believe that this excellent job done by the former minister will continue it as well. Congratulations.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3694	Dear Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3695	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague, you're right, I don't think we've talked about it, and here we are, and we've run off the subject and off this peace mission. This was definitely the mandate of a soldier although we called it what was a year of soldiers, so the years of sports equipment of soldiers, but I think this was the mandate of a soldier where he returned to the soldier as an individual that all the material rights that had been taken away, that they had equipped the military, that he had equipped himself a soldier, that had invested a lot in the very scientific part of it. Here is the transformation of the military university and universities which will help future officers and officers, not to mention what has been lifted from their addition to the watch, the holidays, that officers and ordinary soldiers have eaten different foods etc., etc., that is all back now and I hope that they will remain, I hope that this crown will not have much impact on the defence budget, that we will continue to work and improve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3696	Thank you very much. Now, finally, on behalf of the promoter, the Honored Defence Minister Mario Banozic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3697	Dear Vice-President, Parliamentary MPs, MPs, before I thank you for unanimously supporting the decision, I wanted to announce that by the end of the year we will have the document "The Long-term Plan for the Development of Armed Forces", it will naturally cover almost most of the topics that you have opened in this debate, so that I believe through the parliamentary committee and through the debate that will be here in the meeting on the topic of armed forces that we will find how solutions, as well as clear sources of funding and what will be equipped in HV. Our goal is to continue in all 3 branches to modernise, raise the level of training, as well as protect the current rights that HV has at the moment, which definitely meant the period of colleague Krstičević. I thank you once again for supporting this decision, and here I expect to discuss the long-term development plan in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3698	We have one replica of the respected representative Kuzmanic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3699	Thank you, Your Honor. Here, I look forward to it, and I expect you ministers to really, especially in this crown crisis that is ahead of us, a little bit of reviewing what has been done so far, to look at some of the necessary purchases, you know that before us soon there are also the modernisation of armored vehicles, and there are certain purchases that we may have to deal with, and as a minister we expect you to do a little better, of course all in the interests of HV and Croatian soldiers, the protection of our homeland, and of course the rationalization of our budget, which is clearly this year very, very, very, very threatened.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-30-0.u3700	Thank you very much. So I'd like to conclude a debate on this point, and we'll vote on it when the conditions are met. The next club of representatives is one of the Croatian sovereigns on behalf of whom the respected representative Željko Sačić will speak. Here you go.
