ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-18-2.u26049	We have one more thing, respected MPs and MPs, based on the article. 236th century 5. I will add the Rules of Procedure to the agenda of the 5th session with one point, that is: - Opinion of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system HS on the request for an opinion on the infringement of the Rules of Procedure of HS, which was submitted by the representative Katica Glamuzina.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-18-2.u26068	[[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING AT 11:02 A.M.]] We will now begin with the presentation of the position of the club of representatives and the first on behalf of the Club of Representatives Mosta will speak to the respected representative Marija Selak Rasdic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-18-2.u26069	Dear Vice President of the Parliament. Dearly empty parliaments and distinguished citizens of Croatia, for whom I hope they exist in front of the screen and follow this debate. The year is at an end, this is one of those years that we'll talk about for a long time and we'll remember and that'll teach us something about democracy and endanger it once the accounts really come together. Let us hope that this threat of democracy will stop at this and that we will soon be expected to have better times and that this is the only thing we need to revise. One of the basic questions that will subsequently be withdrawn because there is currently insufficient hearing for it in view of the difficult epidemiological situation in which we are located, the proportionality of the restrictions or the proportionality of the measures imposed, and in particular given that this proportionality is consistent with Article. 16. The Constitution, St. 2 relations and should be applied to the situation of each individual. In that sense, today I would like to talk about something that is less and less talked about, which will be a growing problem, or question, that will be brought before us. It is about the situation and the need for measures in those who are over the coronary virus. In Croatia, we currently have about 150,000 people who are over the coronary virus and 186,963 suffer from the coronary virus, I will be optimistic in this pre-blessed time and indeed express my hope that they will all recover. We currently have about 15 million people in Europe. From the legal point of view between them and those who are currently not over the coronary virus there are no significant differences, however, in practice from a medical point of view there are some differences between those who are over the coronary virus and those who are not and are thus shown to be not exactly equal. They are thus not subject to self-insulation if they choose to travel and can show evidence that they have been over the virus in the last three months. Similarly, the latest research of the Oxford article shows, a study conducted among healthcare professionals that those health workers who developed antibodies have never re-infectioned with the coronary virus and suggests that these people are immune for at least six months. Since we can also conclude the measures proposed now that people who are over the crown are not subject to self-insulation, it is obvious that they do not pose such a threat to the environment as those who have not yet survived and, of course, those who are infected by the crown. Why are we asking this question? Because we believe that if measures were revised and the specificity of the legal and then the practical status of those who are over the crown could have a positive effect on several different levels. It can primarily serve as some kind of incentive as a light at the end of the tunnel, even an opportunity to mentally heal the nation because it shows that life can and will eventually return to normal. Second, legally regarded in accordance with Article 2. The proportionality of the measures should be respected, i.e. it is necessary to demonstrate that the measure requested is valid for each individual and that such a denial of his freedoms is necessary in his particular case. If we are now acknowledging that people who are over and those who have not been over are not equal then obviously this should be implemented at other levels. The third economic since the number of overruns will be increasing, the question is, will it be enough at some point to enable some economic operators to work and thus save the fallen economy? Then, health care, we have a problem right now that we don't really know how many people are infected and how many people are over the crown. If we introduce some form of legal, and then practical respect for the rights of those who are over it could serve as an incentive to those who have not so far been tested to do so because they can verify whether they have been infected, and then, accordingly, they might be able to exercise some rights. Such a decision would then lead us to new opportunities to influence more correctly the adoption of future measures. In this sense, we feel that it is necessary to open up a question that will increasingly be on the agenda in view of the number of patients, and that is what to do with those who are over the crown? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-18-2.u26070	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is that of the CNS and independent representatives on behalf of whom the respected representative Predrag Štromar will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-18-2.u26072	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. Here I would only inform again and ask all our citizens, all MPs and MPs to watch today's game of our women's handball team who here will finally be on HRT. I thank HRT for still getting those rights and that in these difficult moments when we really have to be at home, when we don't have time to at least see the girls cheer us up again. Well done, girl, we will encourage you all no matter how you turn out, you have done a lot for Croatia and for all our citizens. And I think you've also shown politicians that only one teamwork, disowning, pawning and intensive work can be done. You have succeeded, we have never had such a result in Croatia's handball women's team. I hope that we politicians will see all this, that we will team up and start with our country, with a better life for our citizens, as you are playing better and better. And I wish everyone a merry Christmas and a successful New Year.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-18-2.u26073	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is that of the Centre and GLAS, and the Honorable representative Dalia Oreskovic will speak, she is not here, and then she loses her right to speak. This would end with today's work, and we'd end up and I'd close at that fifth session of HS. Thank you very much and once again, Merry Christmas and New Year. SESSION FINISHED IN 11.10 HOURS
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-18-2.u26397	We are now going to the Proposal for a decision to adopt a Council Decision on a system of own resources of the EU and repealing Decision 2014/335/EU EURATOM, is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on that decision. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that, unanimously with 128 votes, a decision has been made as proposed by the parliamentary working bodies. Final draft law amending and supplementing the Explosive Substances Act as well as the production and transport of weapons, second reading, P.Z. No. 43, the Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by MP Davor Dretar, Green-left bloc representative club and representative Mako Kuzmanic. We held the statement earlier at the session, so we will vote on amendments that the applicant does not accept. Let's take it in a row. The first amendment by Attorney Davor Dretar is not accepted by the Government. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment 2 of the same agent. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment No. Three, same agent, Davor Dretar. The government doesn't accept it. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. We are now going to the amendments to the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives, the first amendment is not accepted by the government. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment No. 2. The same club is not accepted by the government. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment No. 3. Again, the same club is not accepted by the government. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment No. The same club the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment No. 5. Again, the Green-left bloc advocates' club does not accept it. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. And the last 6th amendment of the same club, the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Now we're going to the amendments, the two amendments are to Agent Matko Kuzmanic. The first amendment is not accepted by the government. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment didn't receive the number of votes buried. And the second amendment, the same representative, the government doesn't accept it. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment didn't receive the number of votes buried. So we move to a vote on the final draft law amending and supplementing the Explosive Substances Act, as well as the production and transport of weapons. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The decision was taken unanimously and with 120, with 120... And did you want to be for or what? [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] Then one of them didn't work, did he? [[Clip intrusion: Yes]] So, well then, 126 votes for, it's a unanimous decision. ... Yeah, two of you. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] Okay, well, 127 means it was for and thus the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Explosive Substances Act and the Production and Transport of Weapons has been adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-18-2.u26928	Dear colleagues and colleagues, good morning, I welcome you all, today we will vote on the debated points. First under: (a) Report on consultations on the intention of declaring the IGP of the Republic of Croatia in the Adriatic Sea and (b) Proposal for a decision to declare the IGP of the Republic of Croatia in the Adriatic Sea. The Proposer is the Government. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives and the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns. During the debate, the proposer's representative accepted amendments to the Committee on Law, and they became an integral part of the proposal for a decision. The amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Sovereigns has been made earlier in the session, and we will now vote on this amendment which the Proposer does not accept. Okay, so we have two, two requests for the break so far, I guess, the first colleague is Zekanovic, then or a colleague of Grmoja, and then a colleague of Zekanovic. Here's your buddy, Grmo.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-18-2.u26929	Thank you. Here today is a solemn moment, the HS will vote on a decision to declare the IGP, and I must express the satisfaction that after the 5th. our struggles, as well as the struggles of all those who preceded us here at HS and in public we vote that decision. We are pleased that the ruling changed their mind, of course, it was done under the influence and initiative of Italy, but it is never too late. It is now time to protect Croatia's sovereign rights, to serve as a basis for protecting the interests of our fishermen, and that Croatia is finally beginning to lead solely by protecting its national interests. I would also like to emphasise here that we will also vote on the decision of the European Public Prosecutor Act. I would ask you, from the ruling majority, to finally begin to deal with corruption. If we were an orderly state, if our institutions were working, we wouldn't need an outside incentive to deal with corruption, they'd be counting themselves. We also have this corruption in our diplomacy which has not done enough all these years to protect Croatian national interests. On many occasions, here at HS, I was talking about diplomat Damir Sabelak, whom you are persecuting just because he exposed corruption. The administrative court has annulled the court's decision and I hope that this man will return to work soon. And all of you dear colleagues please finally in Croatian politics, in Croatian diplomacy, do not look at your pocket their interests rather than Croatian national interests. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-18-2.u26930	Thank you very much. The apartment will be approved. Here's my colleague, Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-18-2.u26931	Dear President HS. In front of the Croatian Sovereigns Club, I demand a 10-minute break. Unfortunately, today there is no reason to celebrate, today let it celebrate part of the opposition or some glory of the ruling, Croatian sovereigns will not celebrate because today all the misery and misery of Croatian politics has come to light. If Italy had not decided to declare an economic belt because of fishermen from Tunisia and Libya, Croatia would never have declared it. She would never declare it if the Italians hadn't decided to do it. We are one small country at the beginning of Europe, in every sense, economic, demographic, but also political and exclusively doing what corresponds to the big EU and world countries. Unfortunately, once we declare the economic belt, nothing changes, and the Croatian public must know. Nothing changes, Italian carriages will continue to plow and destroy the Croatian submarine. The only way to stop this, and therefore I call on both ruling and opposition colleagues to support our two amendments, one or both, because they are the only ones that fully protect the Croatian submarine and we are fully talking about Croatia's sovereignty over all of its space, in this case over the IGP. If these amendments are not adopted, and as things stand, they will not be adopted because the government does not want to adopt them, part of the opposition does not recognize them. Unfortunately, the situation will be identical. It is not a matter of declaration but of protecting, protecting the rights of Croatian fishermen and real sovereignty in that area. And I'll say it again, the Italian chariots will be fishing in the same place, in the same millimeter where they fished a few days ago.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-18-2.u26932	Thank you. Is anyone else picking up? Comrade Bačić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-18-2.u26933	Thank you, Mr. President. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, I request a 10 minute break so that we can send a clear message to the club once again that the Republic of Croatia protects its strategic national interests on the Adriatic Sea, that ZERP, which, according to its content, contains almost all of the IGP's specifics, came into force before 17. and it is unified in the UN and applies to all countries of the world except EU members of the first 9 years. Over the past 7 years. Since Croatia is a member of the EU ZERP as a common EU water, it is also in force for EU Member States and we must today say that by declaring the IGP, we allow the Republic of Croatia to build artificial islands in the ZERP or in the future IGP, and it can exploit wind and sea energy. As far as fishing is concerned, Croatian fishermen in IGP will continue to comply with the provisions adopted by the European Commission, but what is important also on the proposal of the country of origin in this case of the Republic of Croatia. The good side of what is happening in this joint statement between the Republic of Italy and the Republic of Slovenia is that in the future when the Italian Republic declares IGP that part of the Adriatic that belongs to the Italians will also become protected as it has protected our part of the Adriatic for 17 years. In this sense, I welcome the efforts of Croatian diplomacy to share this moment with our neighbours in the Adriatic above all with the Italian Republic and the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-18-2.u26934	Thank you very much. We've got two injuries to the Rules of Procedure, and it's going to be a replica, it's perfectly safe, but I need to make it possible for the MPs to do it. Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-18-2.u26935	Thank you very much, President. A colleague, Bačić, was injured by an article. 238. where it speaks and deceives the public that it is the same ZERP IGP and is not just a question in the islands of artificial and energy, this is about the sovereign right for the future centuries of Croatian people at 24,000 km2, but it is up to us now how we will apply, whether we will have a coast guard, whether we will provide fishermen to use that one of ours. [[The Intruder President: Thank you, dear colleague Bulj.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-18-2.u26936	I have to give you a warning last day I wouldn't like to, but I have to be consistent. Comrade Zekanovic, here you go. ... Thank you very much. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] A colleague of Bacic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-18-2.u26937	Thank you, Mr. President. I assume you'll give me a warning. Yeah, but then you have to punish more severely those who mention me in the wrong context. [[The President's intrusion: I will.]] I think Mr. Bully keeps earning it. So, fellow Bull, you're wrong, you need to know some things. I ask you, where will this 260m euros you keep here mentioning that Croatia is losing them in the next budget be visible in which position and who will pay /Speakers speak at the same time./... [[The Intruder President: Thank you, dear colleague Bačić.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-18-2.u26938	You're getting a warning, this was a pure replica. Come on, buddy Bull, can we give up now? This really doesn't make sense. Breaking the Rules of Procedure on one hand and on the other, lead the polemics, and everyone else now looks at you and sits here correctly, everyone might now pollemize. ... What? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] There you go, there you go, there's no rules like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-18-2.u26939	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Honorable colleague Bačić has injured an article. 238, where all the time untrue, deceives the public. In 2013, the European Commission sent a report and a study to Croatia saying that Croatia lost between 160m and 260m euros annually because it did not declare the IGP. And I'm glad you changed your mind, and I'm sorry you didn't vote twice for our proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-18-2.u26940	Comrade Bull, I'm giving you a second warning now. Let's move on, dear colleague Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-18-2.u26941	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected representatives. Despite these tiny trinkets, this is still a solemn moment, and I am glad that HS is completing a process that is still 2003. The government of the Racans began. There is some historical justice in what the right opposition is telling HDZ because that's what HDZ was saying to Racan's government in 2003. to not adequately protect Croatian national interests, to declare this and that, the objective situation was such that what was then declared could then be declared and what could now be declared as a result of good relations with neighbours. We will get the right to exploit wind energy, we will get the right to work artificial islands, but we have no right to make Croatia an artificial island in Europe to be quarreled with all neighbours and to do only what we have the right to challenge others that they too do what they have the right to do because then no one would be in good relations with anyone. Therefore, Croatia will not be an artificial island. Thank the Italian Republic for taking care of its part of the Adriatic, a little less thanks for being in our part of the Adriatic or this part of the IGP that they cared about. This time unlike many other debates on the stand are Western neighbours instead of eastern neighbours and then we also prove our patriotism in this way, but it is not good to prove your patriotism in a way that tells neighbors what should not be spoken of. Therefore, respected colleagues and colleagues, distinguished MPs, I congratulate you on what we will end up hoping unanimously, regardless of these petty charms work that was started in HS 17 years ago. Merry Christmas and New Year! Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-18-2.u26942	Thank you, Comrade Bauk. Here we go again with the injuries of the Rules of Procedure. My colleagues really, before I give it to you because I have to, I'm really going to suggest that we make a change to the Rules of Procedure because this doesn't make any sense, this is where the abuse of the Rules of Procedure started to be misused just as easily and it's not fair. You're all aware it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and you're doing it to replicate, so. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-18-2.u26943	Your Honor. The violation of Rules of Procedure in 238 would again call on HDZ parliamentary deputies to be a little awake. The truth has been told again, and I pray to Mr. Bauk who certainly knows that he does not continue to say it because it is not true that the process of declaring the IGP was started in 2003, but the process began in '94. at the initiative of President Tudjman and his government when it was first said that Croatia has 24,000 km2... /The speakers speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-18-2.u26944	You get a warning from your colleague Vrkljan, there are no injuries to the Rules of Procedure what you are saying is completely outside of the Rules of Procedure and has nothing to do with the violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here's my colleague, Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-18-2.u26945	238, just one remark from my colleague, Bauku. We are all for good neighbourly relations and, of course, with all the countries and with Italy that is our neighbouring country, but if we're going to build these good neighbourly relations in a way that we're giving up sovereignty, that's not right.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-18-2.u26946	Ha nothing colleague Zekanovic is also warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-18-2.u26947	Let's now vote on the amendment of the Croatian Sovereigns Club which the promoter does not accept. Please, let's vote. Who's in? You need to squeeze. Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that 90 MPs and MPs voted, the amendment got 10 for, 4 abstentions, 76 against, so it didn't go through. And now, in accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: 1. A consultation report on the intention of declaring the exclusive economic band of the Republic of Croatia in the Adriatic Sea is hereby adopted; and 2. The proposal for a Decision declaring the exclusive economic belt of the Republic of Slovenia in the Adriatic Sea is supported by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to support the strengthening of cooperation in the light of the declaration of exclusive economic belts of the Republic of Croatia, the Italian Republic in 2021, after which a decision will be taken to declare the exclusive economic belt in the Croatian Parliament. Please, let's vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that 130 MPs voted, 129 were for and 1 abstentions, and we have thus reached the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies. The Club of Representatives of the Croatian Sovereigns proposed to the HS the adoption of the following conclusion: The Croatian Parliament obliges the Government of the Republic of Croatia to refer, within 90 days of the date of entry into force of this Decision, the EU to the Commission for the full protection of the exclusive economic belt against any kind of fishing or fishing of other marine organisms. [[Applause.]] The government of the Republic of Croatia does not support this conclusion, so I am voting on this proposal. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that 93 MPs and MPs voted, 14 were in favour, 3 was abstentioned and 76 was against, so the conclusion did not go as proposed by the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-18-2.u27171	- Opinion of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system HS on the request for an opinion on the infringement of the Rules of Procedure of HS, which was submitted by representative Katica Glamuzina. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation The Rules of Procedure of the HS on the opinion of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system shall be decided without discussion. I am voting on the following conclusion: The opinion of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system shall be adopted on the basis of an opinion on the infringement of the Rules of Procedure of HS, which shall be submitted by representative Katica Glamuzina. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that 123 MPs and MPs, 73 for, 2 abstentions and 48 against, have voted, and thus the conclusion has been reached as proposed by the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. This is what we came to the end of the vote and before we move on to free speeches, just a few moments please. I would like to thank the Assembly services, all HS employees for helping in this very demanding time and successfully organising our votes and very complex logistics... provide very complex logistics conditions, so thank them and happy Christmas and New Year. [[Applause]] I also want all of you and your families happy Christmas and New Year's Eve to spend it with your loved ones, wish you health, joy and peace. And also to Croatian citizens and Croatian citizens on behalf of both Croatians and Croats around the world on behalf of MPs and MPs HS I wish a happy Christmas, a happy New Year, wish them as much health, peace, joy and have them spend these holidays in the circle of their loved ones. This is a different Christmas, a different New Year, but I hope that in 2021 at the end of that year and the new 2022 will be much better for all of us. Thank you very much. In five minutes, he's still speaking freely and I'll see you at the next session of HS. It's 10:00 P.M.
