ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u179998	Dear ladies and gentlemen, I am opening the 16th session of the Croatian Parliament and I warmly welcome you all. I particularly welcome the President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, Andrej Plenkovic, vice presidents and other members present and members of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This session begins with a regular session of the Croatian Parliament, which, according to the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, begins on 15 January and ends on 15 July. I invite you at the beginning to honor our country by performing anthem “Beautiful Our Homeland”. - The performance of "Beautiful Our Homeland" – I also invite you to pay tribute with a minute of silence to all those who have contributed to the creation and development of independent and free Croatia, especially Croatian defenders and all who have given their lives to the homeland. - A moment of silence - May their glory be eternal and thank them. Ladies and gentlemen, on today's day, the 28th anniversary of the International Recognition of Croatia is marked. After declaring her independence and sovereignty, she broke all state-law ties with the former Yugoslav state union on today on 15 January 1992 also achieved international recognition of her independence. The independence and sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia has been recognised by all 12 member states of the then European community that joined Austria, Bulgaria, Canada, Hungary, Malta, Norway, Poland and Switzerland on the same day. The 22-year end of peaceful reintegration of eastern Slavonia, Baranja and Western Srijem is also marked today, the constitutional order of the Republic of Croatia. The day of international recognition of the Republic of Croatia and the day of peaceful reintegration of Croatia's Podunnova in Croatia are marked as mentioned. Before we continue to work, allow me to thank the president of the Republic of Croatia, Mrs. Kolinda Grabar Kitrović, on your behalf and on behalf of you, for your ongoing cooperation with the responsible and demanding responsibilities of the President of the Republic of Croatia. Please also allow me to congratulate Mr Zoran Milanovic on behalf of the Croatian Parliament's MPs and representatives for the election of President of the Republic of Croatia. I wish him the success of acting as president of the Republic of Croatia. Before we move to the agenda, one piece of information, so the vote will be on Friday at 13:30 this time because the majority of parliamentary representatives is international, there are international obligations, their flight will be back to Croatia around 12 hours, so then we will be in 13 hours and 30 minutes on Friday. You received the minutes of the 15th session of the Croatian Parliament by electronic means. Any objections to the record? If not, I would like to confirm that we have adopted the minutes of the 15th session of the Croatian Parliament in the proposed text. We are now moving on to the agenda of the session. In addition to the call for a session, you also received a draft agenda, the final draft agenda was submitted to you by electronic means and 3 new points were included in this final draft agenda. I would like to stress that the new points proposed in the final draft agenda were printed in bolder letters, and the item did not contain the draft agenda you received with the invitation. These are points under regular numbers 1, 22 and 25. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt a specific law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 205 of the Financial The Rules of Procedure will be decided on the draft laws for which the Proposer proposes the adoption of an emergency procedure, those are points 12 and 103 of the final draft agenda. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure lay down that, if requested by the Proposer, laws which comply with EU documents are adopted by an urgent procedure and are not voted upon. This is the point of the 12th final draft agenda. In accordance with Article 206, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: I hereby declare that this legislative proposal is included in the agenda by emergency procedure. Any of the representatives have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the law under point 103 of the final draft agenda? This is the proposal for a law amending the Pension Insurance Act with the final proposal for a law. It is proposed by the Croatian Party of Retired, SNAGA, Independent Representatives and New Politics Representatives. If there are no objections, I shall establish that the proposal for the implementation of the emergency procedure is accepted in accordance with Article. 205. Rules of Procedure. The written objection to the agenda I proposed with a call for the session was filed by MP Zeljko Jovanovic. Since the object lodged has not been lodged in accordance with Article 1(1) of the basic Regulation, the Commission shall inform the European Parliament and the Council of the reasons for its failure to comply with the conditions laid down in this Article. 225th century 2. Rules of Procedure, agenda which I have proposed with a call for a session in accordance with Article. 225 C. 3. The Rules of Procedure shall be deemed to have been established. So, here you go, colleague Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u179999	The Honorable President of HS. My colleagues and colleagues, I have proposed that the agenda be changed in a way that points 109 and 110, which is the report on the work of the Committee on Ethics and Higher Education in Science for 2016, be well aware of 2017 and move towards the top points of the agenda. It is therefore embarrassing that the report on the work of the highest professional and advisory body to promote ethical values in higher education and science for 2016 and 2017 has not yet been discussed. But not only that, we're not discussing this because this committee doesn't exist at all, colleagues and colleagues. This Committee appoints HS on a proposal from the Croatian Government. He hasn't worked in two years. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following That's why I asked for it to move to see what the problem was. Why the Committee hasn't worked for two years for ethics and higher education and science? [[Break president: Thank you, colleague Jovanovic.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180000	Thank you, but that's not in line with the Rules of Procedure. The agenda determines the president and the agenda points are in my jurisdiction, or the dynamics to be done. Comrade Lovrinović, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180001	Your Honor, Mr. President. Honorable MPs and MPs. Report on the work of the Croatian Agency for... the institution has not yet come to the agenda in 2016. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] President-in-Office, Your Honor, I beg you, you're setting the agenda. The public gets the impression, and there's this big problem because it's about Agrokor, for ministers without cover, I've already asked and asked you to put that question in the first place, the first day of the debate and here, again I ask you on behalf of the public because there are a lot of problems, there are answers and the Prime Minister should also talk about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180002	Thank you. Same answer as his colleagues, Jovanovic. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. The 225th century 4th century. The Rules of Procedure of the Assembly may be submitted in writing only for those points which did not contain a draft agenda with a call for a session. How in accordance with the abovementioned Article. The 225th century 4th century. The Rules of Procedure did not object to any remaining items which did not contain the draft agenda with a call for a session and those items were included in the 16th session agenda. Madam and gentlemen, the agenda has been established. Let me announce that the agenda has been established as suggested in the final draft agenda. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like your attention, please. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 13:35 A.M.]] In accordance with Article 226(2), I will propose to the Rules of Procedure an addition to the 16th session agenda with 4 new points: 1. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the conduct of student affairs, 1. Proposal for a Law amending the Labour Search Insurance Act, 1. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Gas Market Act and 1. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The proposal to supplement the agenda was submitted by electronic means. Article 227 determines firstly that the proposal to adopt a specific law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure. Any of the representatives have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the law under points 1 and 2 of the proposed supplement? In the absence of any comments, the proposal to implement the emergency procedure is deemed to be accepted in accordance with Article 205. Rules of Procedure. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The rules of procedure of the written objections at the remaining points of the draft agenda have not been established that all the proposed items have been included in the 16th session agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180004	Here, before we go any further, we have a proposal to supplement the agenda, which is relatively urgent. It's about a proposal to show confidence to an extraordinary science professor, Willy Berosch, to perform his duties as Minister of Health, so I'm asking you to accept that addition to the agenda we're going to discuss tomorrow. Do we agree? I'm confirming that the agenda is then completed, so we can proceed with this point.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180005	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, in accordance with Article 226(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I will first propose to supplement the 16th session agenda with 11 new points. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 12.04 HOURS]] The proposal to supplement the agenda was submitted by electronic means. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt a specific law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure lay down that, following an urgent procedure, laws are adopted which comply with EU documents if requested by the applicant and are not voted on. This is point 2 of the proposal for a Bill on Census, Households and Apartments in the Republic of Croatia in 2021 with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z.E. Number 834. In accordance with Article 206(1), I hereby declare that this legislative proposal is included in the agenda by emergency procedure. If any of the MPs have objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the case of the law at point 1 of the proposed supplement, this is the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Act on Special Tax on Coffee and Alcohol-free Drinks with the final proposal of the law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. Number 828. Comrade Lovrinović, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180006	Dear Mr. President, I have, against this I am an emergency procedure, you've already spent 3.4 rounds of tax reform now you've thought of coffee because you spend too much, so you're saying that you went to the citizens to meet, and now you're re-introducing new, new taxes. Why the urgency when you spent three or four rounds of tax reform, so couldn't you put the coffee and the rest where it was supposed to be?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180007	I thank you, since we have objections we will then hold a vote. So, who is to apply the emergency procedure in that law, this is the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Special Tax on Coffee and Alcoholic Drinks? Please, let's vote. I find that the majority of votes are 80 for and 44 against an accepted proposal for an emergency procedure. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The rules of procedure of the written objections at the remaining points of the draft draft agenda have not been established that all the proposed items have been included in the 16th session agenda. Good morning, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. We're going back to work. Before we move to the debate on the first item of today's agenda, I suggest that I base Article 247. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament are held in a united debate on the following two points, this is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the CNB, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 829 and Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Credit Institutions, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 830. Here you go, pal Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180009	Dear President of the Parliament. Here's an explanation why the agenda doesn't continue yesterday. It is the work of the Parliament that a point that isn't finished yesterday continues on tomorrow or today, so I don't understand why. Perhaps the reason that this point must be debated at a deaf time of night is because it does not correspond to HDZ, it does not correspond to the Christian Democrats of God. So the simple question and please answer, does this point have to be discussed at the deaf hour of the night when no one is watching, so that's why the practice of the Parliament's work is being violated, so the point is not being discussed now in this term?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180010	Okay. Yesterday's session was led by Vice President Reiner, he interrupted the debate and said the point would continue when the conditions came to pass. Since the promoter asked that he be here a representative of the Government to give his opinion she did not, yesterday's debate happened because we amended the Rules of Procedure, as the motioner accepted a sufficient number of signatures we put that item on the agenda. At the same time, our Rules of Procedure says that the government must be manifested on a legal proposal, the government has not been manifested because it is not defined within which it must be manifested. So here we now have the opposing two provisions of the Rules of Procedure. We have, like each time so far, held to those in which, if the applicant collects a sufficient number of signatures, the item goes to the agenda, since during the debate, there has been dissatisfaction, that certain unsatisfactory scenes have taken place as well as how much information I have been informed and how much I have seen the chairman interrupt the debate and said that this point will continue when the conditions are met. I am also informed that the promoter has said that he will address the opinion of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system when the committee in charge is manifested then we will see how we will proceed. And until then, we'll keep working. Here's my colleague, Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180011	Thank you, Mr. President. You've interpreted everything that happened yesterday very correctly and correctly. I don't think I'd agree if it were an unkind scene, we were just sitting in protest because I think he was legitimate, if we hadn't even broken any rules of the Rules of Procedure, at least in our interpretation. What I would ask you to take advantage of the business provision on calling a committee meeting, the parent committee concerning the law we had yesterday, which is the Committee on Health to give an opinion and that by believing in your authority and with the Prime Minister, you influence the government within a reasonable period of time to give an opinion on this law. This law has been in the process for a year, so it will be 11 months so that March 7th is addressed to the procedure, so that we can continue the debate. We don't mind her being in the night, not in the morning, not in the day, however, but we have the government's opinion that this is also a commitment to the Constitutional Court's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180012	I thank the proposer. What do you need, Mr. Zekanovic? What provision of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180013	I'm looking for a break from the Croatian Sovereigns' Club of Representatives So regarding the law we're about to discuss for further consultation. [[President: About what?]] And I'd like to point that out.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180014	Wait a minute, we haven't even started with that law... /The speakers speak at the same time. /... I'm asking you to start and then you'll be in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Here's my colleague, Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180015	Mr. President of the Parliament. I propose and ask colleagues and colleagues not to combine the points of daily work on the CNB's new law and the Law on Credit Institutions in this House never discusses banks separately, individually. Therefore, these two institutions have connections, but we never in this Assembly have a major problem, it's burdened with Franak, RBA, we have problems with cash non-intentional loans, we have everything and here's another story. The public will be able to get the impression this way that you want to bring each other together as soon as possible and the story is finished. I'm asking you for the importance of the subject, there are similarities, but there's a big difference between us taking this apart. I think that's wise.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180016	Okay, of course we're going to have to vote on this, I just want to say that this is all about measures relating exclusively to entering the exchange rate mechanism, so into the euro, and that these two legislative proposals are linked exclusively through this. So logic is very clear and it's not about any attempt at manipulation, it's about something that's natural. We'll have to vote, we'll vote on it. Please take your seats, as many of us as we are in the assembly. Who's in favor of having a united discussion? Please take the buttons. 13 for, 1 abstention and 11 against, so the conditions for these two points to come together and have a united debate. Thank you, we've come to an end with club presentations and independent representatives, so now we'll move on to the agenda. Before that, I would only suggest that before the first item of the agenda, that on the basis of the article. 247. Rules of Procedure of the HS to conduct a joint discussion on the following two points: - Report on the work of the National Attorney General of the Republic of Croatia for 2017. and - Report by the Chief State Attorney of the Republic of Croatia on the work of the State Attorney's Office in 2018. Do you mind? Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180018	Thank you very much, President, here I would object to the separation of Report 2017, 2018 to the State Attorney's Office because I think it is very important reports, that the citizens of the Republic of Croatia do not trust the judiciary, including the state's attorney's office, and it would be good to discuss both the public and the public that this House and we parliamentary representatives are particularly discussing each point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180019	A colleague of Lovrinović's will be yours.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180020	I suggest we discuss it separately. Namely, why was it late with the 2017 report we do not know, and since you control the number of votes in the assembly, if you already want to do so then to extend the possibility of a debate from 15 minutes to 20 clubs.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180021	I agree, I'm adopting a proposal, it's going to be spoken for 20 minutes on behalf of the clubs. Can I have your consent now or should I vote? So, fellow Bulj, the clubs will speak for 20 minutes instead of 15 if we conduct a united debate. Okay, good. Then let's go to the vote, who's in favor of having a united debate on these two points? Please just turn it on, not manually, but like this, please. I find that most of the votes of 22, 19 were for, 1 abstention and 2 against, and then we will have a united debate at these two points, but before that we are now going to the first item of the agenda
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180022	I would now like colleagues and fellow representatives in accordance with Article. 226.St. 2. The Rules of Procedure proposed supplementing the 16th session with 11 new points, you got it by electronic means, I hope I don't have to read it all over again, if you agree, as usual this one you've seen. Art. 227. The Rules of Procedure, however, determines firstly that a proposal is to be adopted under an urgent procedure. Art. 206. The Rules of Procedure lay down that, following an urgent procedure, laws are adopted which comply with EU documents if requested by the applicant and are not voted on, that is, point 1 of the proposed supplement, the proposal for a law on official statistics with the final draft law, the emergency procedure, the first and second reading of the P.Z. No. 838. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. The 206th century is 1. I hereby declare that this legislative proposal is included in the agenda by emergency procedure. How appropriate. The 225th century 4th century. The rules of procedure of the written objections at the remaining points of the draft draft agenda have not been established that all the proposed items have been included in the 16th session agenda. Good morning, colleagues and colleagues. Here we go with today's work, but I see a colleague of the coat of arms has already raised his hand. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180024	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I must warn you of the order of the article. 228. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the Croatian Parliament, which says that when asked for by at least 30 MPs in the Croatian Parliament, a single item of the agenda will be discussed within the next seven days. Last week, we had a debate on a bill supported by 30 MPs of the Law on Medical Interruption of Pregnancy, a debate on it delayed because the government's opinion, meanwhile, had not yet been delivered. I wonder if you or the Bureau of Parliament will do anything to ensure that the Government fulfils its obligation and that the Croatian Parliament acts in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and discusses the proposed law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180025	I've got to fix you up a little bit. The debate started and then it was interrupted, you weren't here. It began, it was interrupted due to the inability to continue and flow, so the point was started, part of the point even went away, the introductory exposure was either to be replicable and because of the situation as it was which did not allow the orderly continuation of the session, the point was interrupted, therefore it was not delayed but would continue of course. Here, can you tell me what the Rules of Procedure was hurt about?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180026	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. You've broken an ankle. 228. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament because in Art. 228. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament clearly stand the word implemented. Conducted means that the debate must be held in full, means that the President and the Croatian Parliament Presidency must ensure that the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the home working bodies fulfil their obligation, you did not do so. You have broken the Rules of Procedure as you do, and now that you do not want to give an answer, what you will do to comply with the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180027	Thank you. Absolutely, I said it then and now there must be a debate on when the conditions are met. And you've actually defined some things yourself.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180028	Mr. Vice President, don't be angry, but if I'm going to ask the Constitutional Committee for a statement, I'm going to have to announce it. Since I am not pleased with your answer, I am announcing that I will request a statement from the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180029	All right, all right.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180030	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I ask you to take your seats so that we can approach the vote. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 12.13 HOURS]] First, we shall comply with Article 226(2). The Rules of Procedure shall propose the addition of the agenda of the 16th session of 12 new points. These are: - Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Energy Efficiency, - Final Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Birth and Parent Support, - Final Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Market in Gas, - Final Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement on Transfer and Uniting of Contribution to a Single Sanitary Fund, - Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of Credit Institutions and Investment Companies, - Proposal for a Law on the Implementation of EU Regulation 2017/2394 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 12 December 2017 on cooperation between national bodies responsible for the implementation of rules on the Protection of Consumers and repealing Regulation No 2006/2004, - Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Commercial Society, - Proposal for the Amendment of the Law of the Law of the Law on Social Society, the Law on the Protection of the Law of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Croatia - the Republic of Croatia of Croatia, the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Protection of the Protection of the Law of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Croatia to the Republic of Croatia to the Republic of Croatia - the Republic of Croatia of Croatia, the Law of Croatia to the Law on the Law on the Law of the Law of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Croatia to the Republic of the Republic of Croatia to the Republic of Croatia to the Republic to the Republic of Croatia to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic of Croatia of Croatia. The proposal to supplement the agenda was submitted by electronic means. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt certain laws is subject to an urgent procedure. Do any of the representatives have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the case of the adoption of the law under the point of the first proposed supplement, this is the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Energy Efficiency Act? If not, I would like to conclude that a proposal for the implementation of the emergency procedure is adopted in accordance with Article 205. Rules of Procedure. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The rules of procedure of the written objections at the proposed items of the draft draft agenda have not been amended, I would like to note that all the proposed items have been included in the 16-session agenda. We're going to vote now, but before that, colleague Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180031	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like a technical notice, please. Will the voting plan that we have won for today be fully implemented with the points that are foreseen and with such order? Is there a change in the voting plan given what we've been waiting for if there's a newspaper?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180032	There's been a delay for technical reasons here, and this question of yours you have the right to ask, but we always vote on the basis of what you've got. Dear ladies and gentlemen, MPs, in accordance with Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 226.St. 2. I will propose to the Rules of Procedure an addition to the 16th session agenda with five new points. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 12.08 HOURS]] The proposal to supplement the agenda was submitted by electronic means. How appropriate. The 225th century 4th century. The rules of procedure of the written objections at the proposed items of the draft agenda have not been amended, and I would like to say that all the points proposed have been included in the 16th session agenda, so we are now going to vote on the debated points.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180034	Thank you very much, thank you, let's get started. Good afternoon, everyone. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 226.St. 2. I will propose to the Rules of Procedure an addition to the 16th session agenda in 3 new, with 3 new points, excuse me. The first is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Insurance Act, that is No. 851st draft law. The second is the proposal for a law on the execution of a prison sentence, that's no. It's 852 and 3. The third item is the Report on the State of the Water Services Sector and the work of the Water Services Council for 2018. The proposal to supplement the agenda was submitted by electronic means. How appropriate. The 225th century 4th century. The rules of procedure of the written objections at the proposed items of the draft draft agenda were not, there was no, I would say that all the proposed items were included in the agenda of the 16th session. Do we agree? We agree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180035	Good morning, respected colleagues and colleagues, as announced yesterday in accordance with Article 226(2). I will propose to the Rules of Procedure an addition to the 16th session agenda with 7 new points. Comrade Zekanovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180036	Dear Vice President, I demand a break from the Club of Croatian Sovereigns for 10 minutes, of course for consultation on the law in question, and to point out once more...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180037	I'm sorry, but we haven't even started talking about the law yet, so now we're supplementing, so a little later can we?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180038	...for 20.../incomprehensible, yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180039	We're counting, counting on you. So, you've been given a written form, I suggest you supplement your agenda. Is anyone against anything? If not, this shall be the case in accordance with Article 206(1). I hereby lay down that the legislative proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the implementation of the law on monetary assets with the final proposal of the law is an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 855 included in the agenda by emergency procedure. If any of the representatives have objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the case of the adoption of the law under point 7 of the proposed amendment, this is the Proposal for a Law on the Regulation of the position of the Contracting Parties in contracts concluded with a foreign believer with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 853, Proposer Mira Bulja, do you mind? In the absence of any comments, the proposal to implement the emergency procedure is deemed to be accepted in accordance with Article 205. In accordance with Article 225(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 225(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The rules of procedure of the written objections at the remaining points of the draft draft agenda have not been established that all the proposed items have been included in the 16th session agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180040	I'm sorry, we still have an addition to the agenda that came in the meantime, and the government had a session, so I'm going to do it in accordance with the article. 226.St. 2. The Rules of Procedure shall propose the addition of the agenda with five new points. The proposal for a revision of the agenda was submitted by electronic means, only one item per emergency procedure is the Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Electronic Communications with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 881. Any objections to the urgency of the procedure? If no emergency procedure has been accepted, I shall determine that all the proposed items are included in the 16th session agenda. We will continue tomorrow at 9.30 we will have one item on the agenda, that is the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the implementation of the budget implementation, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 855. Now we will only ask you to leave the hall because we will hold a session of the Presidency here in 10 minutes and invite all members of the Bureau and also representatives of the clubs to come to agree on further work of the Croatian Parliament. Thank you. SESSION Interrupted at 13.03 p.m. Good morning, I apologize for the little delay because I made statements as we had already established at the Croatian Parliament Presidency, since the Croatian Parliament building suffered quite a lot of damage from the earthquake that hit us on Sunday, given the assessment of the statisticians that 3 and 4 floors could not function, since the assembly also ran out of heating, without air conditioning, without ventilation, and the chambers that are located above the plenary hall itself were also damaged, the air-conditioning chamber was bent, heating, we had to make a decision on the change of location. The first idea was the space of the City of Zagreb City Assembly, however it is not in the opinion of the statisticians 100% safe, so we then opted for a space here of the State Inspectorate. I thank the Chief State Inspector for giving us this space. This space also has a historical meaning for our country, so I hope that this time we will be able to work normally on the benefit of our citizens and our homeland. Croatia faced two major disasters, one is the crown virus where we share the fate of the whole world, and the other is the earthquake that hit the City of Zagreb that has only made it difficult and already quite difficult and demanding. Unfortunately, in that earthquake, many people lost their roof over their heads, their houses were torn down, many cannot live in their homes and states and the City of Zagreb took care of and immediately found a solution on the first day, and through the next days, if there is a need, they will all be taken care of. However, there was a tragedy and loss of a young life, a 15 - year - old girl, Anamarie who lived in the city center, who unfortunately died. I'd like to invite you now to honor our little girl Animarija for a minute of silence. - A minute of silence – Let her be an easy Croatian country.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180043	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I warmly welcome you all. We're continuing today's session. First, we'll do it in accordance with the article. 226.St. 2. Rules of Procedure, I would like to propose an addition to the 16th session agenda with four new points. 1st item is the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Elections with a final draft law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading. 2. is the proposal for a law supplementing the Value Added Tax Act with a final draft law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, proposed by the Club of Representatives of the SDP. The 3rd point is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements on Agricultural Land with a final draft law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading. Proposer is Representative Miro Bulj. Point 4 is the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the law on local elections with a final draft law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, is proposed by MP Tomislav Panenic. The proposal for supplementing the agenda has been submitted by electronic means in accordance with Article. The 227 Rules of Procedure determines firstly that a proposal is to be adopted by means of an urgent procedure. I would like to stress that for all points in the proposed addition to the agenda, it is proposed to adopt an emergency procedure and I am assessing that there is no need to read them again. Do any of the representatives have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the law of the proposed amendment to the agenda? If there are no objections, I believe that the proposal for an emergency procedure is accepted in accordance with Article. 205. Rules of Procedure. I find that all the proposed items are included in the 16th session agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180044	Dear colleagues and colleagues, good morning, I welcome you all. Yesterday, we completed the agenda, and today we will announce 7 points, and on Monday 5 of these we announced. So today I propose a united debate on the laws from 1 to 3, the draft law supplementing the General Tax Law, the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Accounting and the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2020. These are the laws of the Ministry of Finance, so when we were done, we would do a joint draft law on the amendments to the Law on Tourist Communities and the promotion of Croatian Tourism, the Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Law on Tourist Taxation, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the provision of services in tourism and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Completion of the Law on Hosting Activity. So, a united discussion of the 4 laws in the area of the tourism ministry. On Monday, we would like to bring together the debate with the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on travel documents of Croatian citizens, the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on the ID card, the Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Law on Road Traffic Safety and the Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Law on the acquisition and possession of weapons of citizens. This would be a united discussion of the MUP and would have one law in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Agriculture, a proposal for a law supplementing the Agriculture Act. Do you agree with that approach? If so, thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180045	... [[Speaker not enabled]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180046	Okay. So now I have two, two things. Before we came here, a part of the MPs asked that not only those representatives sitting in the hall could be replicated at the presentation of the promoter, but also those watching the transfer in the hall outside. So this will significantly complicate our situation because we primarily need to take care of health here and here and we are this complicated because we need to keep our distance to avoid any contact that can infect someone. I'm against it in principle, but I'd also like to make it possible for everyone to express their position. At the same time, if we're going to extend the time for discussion, then we're going to spend a lot of hours here today, which will again be a certain risk given this space that's closed and then we're actually jumping into our mouths, breaking down that system that's made to make health all right. So if I were to ask you to stay for 10 minutes, then the government would speak 20 minutes, so we would cut 30 minutes and the government to 20 minutes, and then we'd do the replicas the next way. We're gonna put a microphone right there at the door, so those of you who are talking, because you can do it technically, so that the microphone is standing there somewhere by the camera, so that this one doesn't come in or walk, but only to change immediately at the entrance from the hall. Okay. Here's my colleague, Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180047	... [[Speaker not enabled]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180048	Okay. So the proposal came from the SDP. Does the SDP agree to extend it to 15 minutes, so we can reduce the number of replicas and remain only the ones in the hall. Do you agree? Well, then we'll extend the debate, so for 15 minutes, only those in the hall will replicate, and then this government will also speak for 30 minutes. Thank you, colleague Lovrinović, thank you and SDP for understanding and I ask you to hold on to it then because the real reason why we do this is health, so please let us hold on to it. So now we're going to do a few things. I'll do it first in accordance with the article. 226.St. 2. The Rules of Procedure propose the completion of the agenda with 8 new points, these are 7 points proposed by the representative Bozo Petrov: - Final or proposal for a law amending the General Tax Act, - Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law on Taxation on Profits, - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Tax on Income, - Proposal for an Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax, - Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Law on Memberships in Tourist Communities, - Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Birth and Parent Support, - Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Law on HGK Law and one point proposed by the SDP Club of Representatives and Alexic: - Proposal for a Law on Moratory of Credit Obligors. All laws are proposed in an emergency procedure. You've got everything by the electronic pathway. We agree to put those points on the agenda. If so, thank you and those points will be included in agenda 16. Sit down. Now just a few more notices. So, tomorrow we'll be working at the Westin Hotel, given that we have a vote, this space is not big enough, so we can't vote here. We'd start working at 9:00 and 30 minutes with a statement on the amendments. So far it's 29 amendments, so I guess this one's going to be on some more amendments today, and then we'll leave two and a half hours for a statement on the amendments, so the vote will be tomorrow at 12 o'clock at the Westin Hotel, we'll count the votes manually, I've arranged with the Secretary of Parliament how it will be organised. After the vote, we would have, as always, a free speech and then we would discuss a package of SDP laws proposed last week on the agenda. After that, we would end the session and continue on 15.4. I hope in the Croatian Parliament. Today, once again, the builders and the statisticians are in the building of the assembly, re-evaluating the assembly, and if all is well 15.4. they would be in the Croatian Assembly and continue to work. Any questions, if anything's not clear? Stanka can't do it yet because we haven't started the agenda yet. So today we would do as announced, we would first have a united debate on the laws of the Ministry of Finance, the 4 laws, then be the Agriculture Act and then have a united debate on the laws of the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180052	Good morning, I want everyone, ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives. At the beginning of today's work, we remember two moments from our history, today is the 75th anniversary of the breakthrough of the last prisoners from the Ustasha camp Jasenovac and the whole state summit is there today to mark this event, and we remember that with the piteto. And let me also remind you that on today, exactly 30 years ago, the first multiparty free elections were held in the Republic of Croatia, the first round of these elections, starting with a chapter of the newer history of Croatia and the process of its independence, and should be remembered. Here's before we move on to taking the club stand as usual, and about today's work, I suggest that I base an art. 247. The Rules of Procedure we hold a united debate on the first two points of today's agenda, these are: The Final Proposal of the Law on the Completion of the Foreign Law, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 926 and the Final Proposal of the Law supplementing the Law on Citizens of the Member States of the European Economic Area and members of their families, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 927. I also propose that we conduct a united debate and on the next 9 points of which, for 8 legislative proposals, the motion is a respected representative of Bozo Petrov and, for one proposal, the conclusion of the club of the Independent Lists. So if you agree to accept such a concept of work today? No one's against it, thank you very much, then we'll continue. In that sense, we're going to unite these first two points and then unite the next nine points.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180053	My colleagues and colleagues, we're starting work. In accordance with paragraph 226. Rules of Procedure, I will propose the first addition of the 16th session agenda with 8 new points: 1) Proposal for a Law on Intervention Measures in executive and bankruptcy procedures during the period of special circumstances with the final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 933 1) Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Voluntary Health Insurance Act with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 934 1) Proposal for a Law on support for part-time cuts in order to preserve jobs with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 932, Proposer: Club of Representatives of the SDP 1) Final Proposal for a Law implementing Regulation (EU) 2017/2394 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 12 December 2017 on cooperation between national authorities responsible for the enforcement of consumer protection rules and repealing Regulation (EC) No 2006/2004, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 844 5) Proposal for a law supplementing the Value Added Tax Act, first reading, P.Z. No. 929 Proposer: Club of Representatives of MOST Independent Lists 5) Proposal for a Family Supplement Act with Pensions, First Reading, P.Z. No. 930, Proposer: Club of HSU Representatives, SNAGA, Independent Representatives and New Policy, 5) Proposal for a Law amending the Pension Insurance Act, first reading, P.Z. No. 931, Proposer: Club of HSU Representatives, SNAGA, Independent Representatives and New Policy, 5) Proposal for a conclusion on the completion of the criteria for maintaining jobs in the activities affected by the Coronal Virus, Proposer: SDP Representatives' Club The proposal for a supplementation of the agenda was submitted by electronic means. Art. 227. The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt a specific law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure. Any of the representatives have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure for the adoption under points 1 to 3 of the proposed supplement? If there are no objections, I believe that the proposal for an emergency procedure is accepted in accordance with Article. 205. Rules of Procedure. How appropriate. Article 225(4) The Rules of Procedure of Written Objections at the remaining points of the proposal for supplementing the agenda were not, and I would like to conclude that all the proposed items have been included in the agenda of the 16th session.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180054	Dear colleagues and colleagues, good morning. We're starting work. Before we go on a free speech by the representatives' clubs according to article. 226.St. 2. I will propose to the Rules of Procedure an addition to the 16th session agenda with 7 new points. The proposal to supplement the agenda was submitted by electronic means. Art. 227. The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt a specific law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure. Any of the representatives have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the case of the adoption of the law under points 1-4 and 5 of the proposed supplement? In the absence of any comments, a proposal for the implementation of the emergency procedure shall be deemed to be accepted in accordance with Article. 205. Rules of Procedure. How appropriate. The 225th century 4th century. The rules of procedure of the written objections at the proposed points of supplementation of the agenda were not available, i.e. all the proposed items were included in the 16th session agenda. I would also like to inform you that today, as part of the agenda, we will discuss and the item on which we have just completed the agenda, and this is the proposal for a Rules of Procedure to supplement the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament with the final proposal of the Rules of Procedure. The proposer is the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system, and we would then determine, not only by agreement but also by the Rules of Procedure of the work of the HS under these special circumstances. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I wish everyone a good morning. We're going back to work. Before we go to free debates pursuant to Article 226(2). I will propose to the Rules of Procedure an addition to the 16th session agenda with 8 new points. The proposal for a supplement was submitted by electronic means. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt certain laws is subject to an urgent procedure. Article 206 lays down that, following an urgent procedure, laws are adopted which comply with EU documents if requested by the applicant and are not voted on, that is, point 3 of the proposed supplement. In accordance with Article 206. For the purposes of this Article, the following definitions shall apply: I hereby declare that this legislative proposal is included in the agenda by emergency procedure. Any of the representatives have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the case of the adoption of the law under point 1 of the proposed supplement, which is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Mandatory Pension Funds with the final proposal of the Law? In the absence of any comments, it is considered that an emergency procedure proposal in accordance with Article 205 has been adopted. Rules of Procedure. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The rules of procedure of the written objections at the remaining points of the agenda have not been established that all the proposed items have been included in the 16th session agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180056	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I'll do it in accordance with article. Article 226(2) Rules of Procedure, to suggest the addition of the 16th session agenda with 16 new points, you have received a proposal to supplement the agenda by electronic means. Art. 227. The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt a specific law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure. Do any of the respected representatives and advocates have objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the laws under points 3, 4 and 5 of the proposed supplement? There appears to be no, therefore, if there are no objections, a proposal for the implementation of an emergency procedure is deemed to be accepted in accordance with Article. 205. Rules of Procedure for these three draft laws. How appropriate. Article 225(4) The Rules of Procedure of Written Objections at the remaining points of the proposal for supplementing the agenda were not, and I would like to conclude that all the proposed items have been included in the agenda of the 16th session.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180057	Good morning, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Here you go, colleague Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180058	Thank you very much. Here's one thing I'd like to ask you before we begin the session, this one to give me one simple answer. So MPs in the Croatian Parliament and Croatian citizens deserve an answer when we will go to the elections, since no government has so far set a matchmaker against citizens to tell them not to but to calculate in their own interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180059	Comrade Maras, please sit down, Comrade Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180060	So will it, will the council disband this...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180061	Comrade Maras, please, I can't turn off your microphone, please sit down, have a free debate today at 13 o'clock you can say whatever you want, this is now, no, please sit down... Please sit down at 13 o'clock free speech and you can say whatever you want as always, but please stick to the Rules of Procedure. [[Intruder: You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180062	Then I'm looking for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180063	Are you looking for a break? You can't ask for a break, so when the debate starts, you'll fit in fine, and you'll get a break, but right now you can't because I haven't even started with what I wanted to say. So before we move on to the debate on the first point of today's schedule, I suggest that I base Article 247. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament and the Final Proposal of the Law on the Implementation of the EU Regulation 2017/2402 laying down a general framework for securitisation and establishing a specific framework for simple, transparent and standardised securitisation, second reading, P.Z. Number 857. Are we in agreement? If we did, that's the second and third points of the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180064	Madam and gentlemen of the Parliament, before we move to the first item of today's agenda, in accordance with the article. 226.St. 2. I will propose to the Rules of Procedure an addition to the 16th session agenda with two new points, i.e.: 1.a) Proposal for a decision on the resolution of the President of the Competition Protection Council and (a) Proposal for a decision to appoint the President of the Competition Protection Council, and second point 2. Proposal for a decision to dissolve HS. The proposed representatives of the HDZ Club, the Croatian National Liberal Party of Liberal Democrats Club, the HDS Representatives' Club, the HSLS and the Croatian Democratic Union of Slavonia and Baranja, the National Minority Representatives' Club, the SDSS Representatives' Club and the Party of Labour and Solidarity and Independent Representatives' Club. The proposal to supplement the agenda was submitted by electronic means. How appropriate. 225. There were no rules of procedure of written objections to the proposal to supplement the agenda, i.e. that all the proposed items were included in the 16th session agenda. I also inform you that the points from which we have completed the agenda will be discussed today after the amendment has been made. Since HS is the sponsor of the celebration, I invite you to remember with the piety all the victims killed by the communist regime without court after the end of World War II in Bleiburg, but also all other places and cross roads. May the light soil beneath which the bones rest wherever they may be. Madam and gentlemen of the Parliament, before we move to the first item of today's agenda, in accordance with the article. 226.St. 2. I will propose to the Rules of Procedure an addition to the 16th session agenda with two new points, i.e.: 1.a) Proposal for a decision on the resolution of the President of the Competition Protection Council and (a) Proposal for a decision to appoint the President of the Competition Protection Council, and second point 2. Proposal for a decision to dissolve HS. The proposed representatives of the HDZ Club, the Croatian National Liberal Party of Liberal Democrats Club, the HDS Representatives' Club, the HSLS and the Croatian Democratic Union of Slavonia and Baranja, the National Minority Representatives' Club, the SDSS Representatives' Club and the Party of Labour and Solidarity and Independent Representatives' Club. The proposal to supplement the agenda was submitted by electronic means. How appropriate. 225. There were no rules of procedure of written objections to the proposal to supplement the agenda, i.e. that all the proposed items were included in the 16th session agenda. I also inform you that the points from which we have completed the agenda will be discussed today after the amendment has been made. Since HS is the sponsor of the celebration, I invite you to remember with the piety all the victims killed by the communist regime without court after the end of World War II in Bleiburg, but also all other places and cross roads. May the light soil beneath which the bones rest wherever they may be. Madam and gentlemen of the Parliament, before we move to the first item of today's agenda, in accordance with the article. 226.St. 2. I will propose to the Rules of Procedure an addition to the 16th session agenda with two new points, i.e.: 1.a) Proposal for a decision on the resolution of the President of the Competition Protection Council and (a) Proposal for a decision to appoint the President of the Competition Protection Council, and second point 2. Proposal for a decision to dissolve HS. The proposed representatives of the HDZ Club, the Croatian National Liberal Party of Liberal Democrats Club, the HDS Representatives' Club, the HSLS and the Croatian Democratic Union of Slavonia and Baranja, the National Minority Representatives' Club, the SDSS Representatives' Club and the Party of Labour and Solidarity and Independent Representatives' Club. The proposal to supplement the agenda was submitted by electronic means. How appropriate. 225. There were no rules of procedure of written objections to the proposal to supplement the agenda, i.e. that all the proposed items were included in the 16th session agenda. I also inform you that the points from which we have completed the agenda will be discussed today after the amendment has been made. Since HS is the sponsor of the celebration, I invite you to remember with the piety all the victims killed by the communist regime without court after the end of World War II in Bleiburg, but also all other places and cross roads. May the light soil beneath which the bones rest wherever they may be. Once again, let's make it easy for them.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180065	Dear ladies and gentlemen, I am opening the 16th session of the Croatian Parliament and I warmly welcome you all. I particularly welcome the President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, Andrej Plenkovic, vice presidents and other members present and members of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This session begins with a regular session of the Croatian Parliament, which, according to the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, begins on 15 January and ends on 15 July. I invite you at the beginning to honor our country by performing anthem “Beautiful Our Homeland”. - The performance of "Beautiful Our Homeland" – I also invite you to pay tribute with a minute of silence to all those who have contributed to the creation and development of independent and free Croatia, especially Croatian defenders and all who have given their lives to the homeland. - A moment of silence - May their glory be eternal and thank them. Ladies and gentlemen, on today's day, the 28th anniversary of the International Recognition of Croatia is marked. After declaring her independence and sovereignty, she broke all state-law ties with the former Yugoslav state union on today on 15 January 1992 also achieved international recognition of her independence. The independence and sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia has been recognised by all 12 member states of the then European community that joined Austria, Bulgaria, Canada, Hungary, Malta, Norway, Poland and Switzerland on the same day. The 22-year end of peaceful reintegration of eastern Slavonia, Baranja and Western Srijem is also marked today, the constitutional order of the Republic of Croatia. The day of international recognition of the Republic of Croatia and the day of peaceful reintegration of Croatia's Podunnova in Croatia are marked as mentioned. Before we continue to work, allow me to thank the president of the Republic of Croatia, Mrs. Kolinda Grabar Kitrović, on your behalf and on behalf of you, for your ongoing cooperation with the responsible and demanding responsibilities of the President of the Republic of Croatia. Please also allow me to congratulate Mr Zoran Milanovic on behalf of the Croatian Parliament's MPs and representatives for the election of President of the Republic of Croatia. I wish him the success of acting as president of the Republic of Croatia. Before we move to the agenda, one piece of information, so the vote will be on Friday at 13:30 this time because the majority of parliamentary representatives is international, there are international obligations, their flight will be back to Croatia around 12 hours, so then we will be in 13 hours and 30 minutes on Friday. You received the minutes of the 15th session of the Croatian Parliament by electronic means. Any objections to the record? If not, I would like to confirm that we have adopted the minutes of the 15th session of the Croatian Parliament in the proposed text. We are now moving on to the agenda of the session. In addition to the call for a session, you also received a draft agenda, the final draft agenda was submitted to you by electronic means and 3 new points were included in this final draft agenda. I would like to stress that the new points proposed in the final draft agenda were printed in bolder letters, and the item did not contain the draft agenda you received with the invitation. These are points under regular numbers 1, 22 and 25. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt a specific law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 205 of the Financial The Rules of Procedure will be decided on the draft laws for which the Proposer proposes the adoption of an emergency procedure, those are points 12 and 103 of the final draft agenda. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure lay down that, if requested by the Proposer, laws which comply with EU documents are adopted by an urgent procedure and are not voted upon. This is the point of the 12th final draft agenda. In accordance with Article 206, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: I hereby declare that this legislative proposal is included in the agenda by emergency procedure. Any of the representatives have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the law under point 103 of the final draft agenda? This is the proposal for a law amending the Pension Insurance Act with the final proposal for a law. It is proposed by the Croatian Party of Retired, SNAGA, Independent Representatives and New Politics Representatives. If there are no objections, I shall establish that the proposal for the implementation of the emergency procedure is accepted in accordance with Article. 205. Rules of Procedure. The written objection to the agenda I proposed with a call for the session was filed by MP Zeljko Jovanovic. Since the object lodged has not been lodged in accordance with Article 1(1) of the basic Regulation, the Commission shall inform the European Parliament and the Council of the reasons for its failure to comply with the conditions laid down in this Article. 225th century 2. Rules of Procedure, agenda which I have proposed with a call for a session in accordance with Article. 225 C. 3. The Rules of Procedure shall be deemed to have been established. So, here you go, colleague Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180066	The Honorable President of HS. My colleagues and colleagues, I have proposed that the agenda be changed in a way that points 109 and 110, which is the report on the work of the Committee on Ethics and Higher Education in Science for 2016, be well aware of 2017 and move towards the top points of the agenda. It is therefore embarrassing that the report on the work of the highest professional and advisory body to promote ethical values in higher education and science for 2016 and 2017 has not yet been discussed. But not only that, we're not discussing this because this committee doesn't exist at all, colleagues and colleagues. This Committee appoints HS on a proposal from the Croatian Government. He hasn't worked in two years. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following That's why I asked for it to move to see what the problem was. Why the Committee hasn't worked for two years for ethics and higher education and science? [[Break president: Thank you, colleague Jovanovic.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180067	Thank you, but that's not in line with the Rules of Procedure. The agenda determines the president and the agenda points are in my jurisdiction, or the dynamics to be done. Comrade Lovrinović, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180068	Your Honor, Mr. President. Honorable MPs and MPs. Report on the work of the Croatian Agency for... the institution has not yet come to the agenda in 2016. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] President-in-Office, Your Honor, I beg you, you're setting the agenda. The public gets the impression, and there's this big problem because it's about Agrokor, for ministers without cover, I've already asked and asked you to put that question in the first place, the first day of the debate and here, again I ask you on behalf of the public because there are a lot of problems, there are answers and the Prime Minister should also talk about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180069	Thank you. Same answer as his colleagues, Jovanovic. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. The 225th century 4th century. The Rules of Procedure of the Assembly may be submitted in writing only for those points which did not contain a draft agenda with a call for a session. How in accordance with the abovementioned Article. The 225th century 4th century. The Rules of Procedure did not object to any remaining items which did not contain the draft agenda with a call for a session and those items were included in the 16th session agenda. Madam and gentlemen, the agenda has been established. Let me announce that the agenda has been established as suggested in the final draft agenda. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like your attention, please. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 13:35 A.M.]] In accordance with Article 226(2), I will propose to the Rules of Procedure an addition to the 16th session agenda with 4 new points: 1. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the conduct of student affairs, 1. Proposal for a Law amending the Labour Search Insurance Act, 1. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Gas Market Act and 1. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The proposal to supplement the agenda was submitted by electronic means. Article 227 determines firstly that the proposal to adopt a specific law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure. Any of the representatives have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the law under points 1 and 2 of the proposed supplement? In the absence of any comments, the proposal to implement the emergency procedure is deemed to be accepted in accordance with Article 205. Rules of Procedure. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The rules of procedure of the written objections at the remaining points of the draft agenda have not been established that all the proposed items have been included in the 16th session agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180071	Here, before we go any further, we have a proposal to supplement the agenda, which is relatively urgent. It's about a proposal to show confidence to an extraordinary science professor, Willy Berosch, to perform his duties as Minister of Health, so I'm asking you to accept that addition to the agenda we're going to discuss tomorrow. Do we agree? I'm confirming that the agenda is then completed, so we can proceed with this point.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180072	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, in accordance with Article 226(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I will first propose to supplement the 16th session agenda with 11 new points. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 12.04 HOURS]] The proposal to supplement the agenda was submitted by electronic means. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt a specific law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure lay down that, following an urgent procedure, laws are adopted which comply with EU documents if requested by the applicant and are not voted on. This is point 2 of the proposal for a Bill on Census, Households and Apartments in the Republic of Croatia in 2021 with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z.E. Number 834. In accordance with Article 206(1), I hereby declare that this legislative proposal is included in the agenda by emergency procedure. If any of the MPs have objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the case of the law at point 1 of the proposed supplement, this is the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Act on Special Tax on Coffee and Alcohol-free Drinks with the final proposal of the law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. Number 828. Comrade Lovrinović, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180073	Dear Mr. President, I have, against this I am an emergency procedure, you've already spent 3.4 rounds of tax reform now you've thought of coffee because you spend too much, so you're saying that you went to the citizens to meet, and now you're re-introducing new, new taxes. Why the urgency when you spent three or four rounds of tax reform, so couldn't you put the coffee and the rest where it was supposed to be?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180074	I thank you, since we have objections we will then hold a vote. So, who is to apply the emergency procedure in that law, this is the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Special Tax on Coffee and Alcoholic Drinks? Please, let's vote. I find that the majority of votes are 80 for and 44 against an accepted proposal for an emergency procedure. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The rules of procedure of the written objections at the remaining points of the draft draft agenda have not been established that all the proposed items have been included in the 16th session agenda. Good morning, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. We're going back to work. Before we move to the debate on the first item of today's agenda, I suggest that I base Article 247. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament are held in a united debate on the following two points, this is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the CNB, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 829 and Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Credit Institutions, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 830. Here you go, pal Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180076	Dear President of the Parliament. Here's an explanation why the agenda doesn't continue yesterday. It is the work of the Parliament that a point that isn't finished yesterday continues on tomorrow or today, so I don't understand why. Perhaps the reason that this point must be debated at a deaf time of night is because it does not correspond to HDZ, it does not correspond to the Christian Democrats of God. So the simple question and please answer, does this point have to be discussed at the deaf hour of the night when no one is watching, so that's why the practice of the Parliament's work is being violated, so the point is not being discussed now in this term?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180077	Okay. Yesterday's session was led by Vice President Reiner, he interrupted the debate and said the point would continue when the conditions came to pass. Since the promoter asked that he be here a representative of the Government to give his opinion she did not, yesterday's debate happened because we amended the Rules of Procedure, as the motioner accepted a sufficient number of signatures we put that item on the agenda. At the same time, our Rules of Procedure says that the government must be manifested on a legal proposal, the government has not been manifested because it is not defined within which it must be manifested. So here we now have the opposing two provisions of the Rules of Procedure. We have, like each time so far, held to those in which, if the applicant collects a sufficient number of signatures, the item goes to the agenda, since during the debate, there has been dissatisfaction, that certain unsatisfactory scenes have taken place as well as how much information I have been informed and how much I have seen the chairman interrupt the debate and said that this point will continue when the conditions are met. I am also informed that the promoter has said that he will address the opinion of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system when the committee in charge is manifested then we will see how we will proceed. And until then, we'll keep working. Here's my colleague, Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180078	Thank you, Mr. President. You've interpreted everything that happened yesterday very correctly and correctly. I don't think I'd agree if it were an unkind scene, we were just sitting in protest because I think he was legitimate, if we hadn't even broken any rules of the Rules of Procedure, at least in our interpretation. What I would ask you to take advantage of the business provision on calling a committee meeting, the parent committee concerning the law we had yesterday, which is the Committee on Health to give an opinion and that by believing in your authority and with the Prime Minister, you influence the government within a reasonable period of time to give an opinion on this law. This law has been in the process for a year, so it will be 11 months so that March 7th is addressed to the procedure, so that we can continue the debate. We don't mind her being in the night, not in the morning, not in the day, however, but we have the government's opinion that this is also a commitment to the Constitutional Court's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180079	I thank the proposer. What do you need, Mr. Zekanovic? What provision of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180080	I'm looking for a break from the Croatian Sovereigns' Club of Representatives So regarding the law we're about to discuss for further consultation. [[President: About what?]] And I'd like to point that out.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180081	Wait a minute, we haven't even started with that law... /The speakers speak at the same time. /... I'm asking you to start and then you'll be in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Here's my colleague, Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180082	Mr. President of the Parliament. I propose and ask colleagues and colleagues not to combine the points of daily work on the CNB's new law and the Law on Credit Institutions in this House never discusses banks separately, individually. Therefore, these two institutions have connections, but we never in this Assembly have a major problem, it's burdened with Franak, RBA, we have problems with cash non-intentional loans, we have everything and here's another story. The public will be able to get the impression this way that you want to bring each other together as soon as possible and the story is finished. I'm asking you for the importance of the subject, there are similarities, but there's a big difference between us taking this apart. I think that's wise.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180083	Okay, of course we're going to have to vote on this, I just want to say that this is all about measures relating exclusively to entering the exchange rate mechanism, so into the euro, and that these two legislative proposals are linked exclusively through this. So logic is very clear and it's not about any attempt at manipulation, it's about something that's natural. We'll have to vote, we'll vote on it. Please take your seats, as many of us as we are in the assembly. Who's in favor of having a united discussion? Please take the buttons. 13 for, 1 abstention and 11 against, so the conditions for these two points to come together and have a united debate. Thank you, we've come to an end with club presentations and independent representatives, so now we'll move on to the agenda. Before that, I would only suggest that before the first item of the agenda, that on the basis of the article. 247. Rules of Procedure of the HS to conduct a joint discussion on the following two points: - Report on the work of the National Attorney General of the Republic of Croatia for 2017. and - Report by the Chief State Attorney of the Republic of Croatia on the work of the State Attorney's Office in 2018. Do you mind? Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180085	Thank you very much, President, here I would object to the separation of Report 2017, 2018 to the State Attorney's Office because I think it is very important reports, that the citizens of the Republic of Croatia do not trust the judiciary, including the state's attorney's office, and it would be good to discuss both the public and the public that this House and we parliamentary representatives are particularly discussing each point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180086	A colleague of Lovrinović's will be yours.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180087	I suggest we discuss it separately. Namely, why was it late with the 2017 report we do not know, and since you control the number of votes in the assembly, if you already want to do so then to extend the possibility of a debate from 15 minutes to 20 clubs.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180088	I agree, I'm adopting a proposal, it's going to be spoken for 20 minutes on behalf of the clubs. Can I have your consent now or should I vote? So, fellow Bulj, the clubs will speak for 20 minutes instead of 15 if we conduct a united debate. Okay, good. Then let's go to the vote, who's in favor of having a united debate on these two points? Please just turn it on, not manually, but like this, please. I find that most of the votes of 22, 19 were for, 1 abstention and 2 against, and then we will have a united debate at these two points, but before that we are now going to the first item of the agenda
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180089	I would now like colleagues and fellow representatives in accordance with Article. 226.St. 2. The Rules of Procedure proposed supplementing the 16th session with 11 new points, you got it by electronic means, I hope I don't have to read it all over again, if you agree, as usual this one you've seen. Art. 227. The Rules of Procedure, however, determines firstly that a proposal is to be adopted under an urgent procedure. Art. 206. The Rules of Procedure lay down that, following an urgent procedure, laws are adopted which comply with EU documents if requested by the applicant and are not voted on, that is, point 1 of the proposed supplement, the proposal for a law on official statistics with the final draft law, the emergency procedure, the first and second reading of the P.Z. No. 838. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. The 206th century is 1. I hereby declare that this legislative proposal is included in the agenda by emergency procedure. How appropriate. The 225th century 4th century. The rules of procedure of the written objections at the remaining points of the draft draft agenda have not been established that all the proposed items have been included in the 16th session agenda. Good morning, colleagues and colleagues. Here we go with today's work, but I see a colleague of the coat of arms has already raised his hand. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180091	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I must warn you of the order of the article. 228. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the Croatian Parliament, which says that when asked for by at least 30 MPs in the Croatian Parliament, a single item of the agenda will be discussed within the next seven days. Last week, we had a debate on a bill supported by 30 MPs of the Law on Medical Interruption of Pregnancy, a debate on it delayed because the government's opinion, meanwhile, had not yet been delivered. I wonder if you or the Bureau of Parliament will do anything to ensure that the Government fulfils its obligation and that the Croatian Parliament acts in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and discusses the proposed law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180092	I've got to fix you up a little bit. The debate started and then it was interrupted, you weren't here. It began, it was interrupted due to the inability to continue and flow, so the point was started, part of the point even went away, the introductory exposure was either to be replicable and because of the situation as it was which did not allow the orderly continuation of the session, the point was interrupted, therefore it was not delayed but would continue of course. Here, can you tell me what the Rules of Procedure was hurt about?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180093	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. You've broken an ankle. 228. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament because in Art. 228. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament clearly stand the word implemented. Conducted means that the debate must be held in full, means that the President and the Croatian Parliament Presidency must ensure that the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the home working bodies fulfil their obligation, you did not do so. You have broken the Rules of Procedure as you do, and now that you do not want to give an answer, what you will do to comply with the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180094	Thank you. Absolutely, I said it then and now there must be a debate on when the conditions are met. And you've actually defined some things yourself.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180095	Mr. Vice President, don't be angry, but if I'm going to ask the Constitutional Committee for a statement, I'm going to have to announce it. Since I am not pleased with your answer, I am announcing that I will request a statement from the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180096	All right, all right.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180097	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I ask you to take your seats so that we can approach the vote. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 12.13 HOURS]] First, we shall comply with Article 226(2). The Rules of Procedure shall propose the addition of the agenda of the 16th session of 12 new points. These are: - Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Energy Efficiency, - Final Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Birth and Parent Support, - Final Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Market in Gas, - Final Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement on Transfer and Uniting of Contribution to a Single Sanitary Fund, - Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of Credit Institutions and Investment Companies, - Proposal for a Law on the Implementation of EU Regulation 2017/2394 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 12 December 2017 on cooperation between national bodies responsible for the implementation of rules on the Protection of Consumers and repealing Regulation No 2006/2004, - Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Commercial Society, - Proposal for the Amendment of the Law of the Law of the Law on Social Society, the Law on the Protection of the Law of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Croatia - the Republic of Croatia of Croatia, the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Protection of the Protection of the Law of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Croatia to the Republic of Croatia to the Republic of Croatia - the Republic of Croatia of Croatia, the Law of Croatia to the Law on the Law on the Law of the Law of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Croatia to the Republic of the Republic of Croatia to the Republic of Croatia to the Republic to the Republic of Croatia to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic of Croatia of Croatia. The proposal to supplement the agenda was submitted by electronic means. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt certain laws is subject to an urgent procedure. Do any of the representatives have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the case of the adoption of the law under the point of the first proposed supplement, this is the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Energy Efficiency Act? If not, I would like to conclude that a proposal for the implementation of the emergency procedure is adopted in accordance with Article 205. Rules of Procedure. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The rules of procedure of the written objections at the proposed items of the draft draft agenda have not been amended, I would like to note that all the proposed items have been included in the 16-session agenda. We're going to vote now, but before that, colleague Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180098	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like a technical notice, please. Will the voting plan that we have won for today be fully implemented with the points that are foreseen and with such order? Is there a change in the voting plan given what we've been waiting for if there's a newspaper?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180099	There's been a delay for technical reasons here, and this question of yours you have the right to ask, but we always vote on the basis of what you've got. Dear ladies and gentlemen, MPs, in accordance with Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 226.St. 2. I will propose to the Rules of Procedure an addition to the 16th session agenda with five new points. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 12.08 HOURS]] The proposal to supplement the agenda was submitted by electronic means. How appropriate. The 225th century 4th century. The rules of procedure of the written objections at the proposed items of the draft agenda have not been amended, and I would like to say that all the points proposed have been included in the 16th session agenda, so we are now going to vote on the debated points.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180101	Thank you very much, thank you, let's get started. Good afternoon, everyone. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 226.St. 2. I will propose to the Rules of Procedure an addition to the 16th session agenda in 3 new, with 3 new points, excuse me. The first is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Insurance Act, that is No. 851st draft law. The second is the proposal for a law on the execution of a prison sentence, that's no. It's 852 and 3. The third item is the Report on the State of the Water Services Sector and the work of the Water Services Council for 2018. The proposal to supplement the agenda was submitted by electronic means. How appropriate. The 225th century 4th century. The rules of procedure of the written objections at the proposed items of the draft draft agenda were not, there was no, I would say that all the proposed items were included in the agenda of the 16th session. Do we agree? We agree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180102	Good morning, respected colleagues and colleagues, as announced yesterday in accordance with Article 226(2). I will propose to the Rules of Procedure an addition to the 16th session agenda with 7 new points. Comrade Zekanovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180103	Dear Vice President, I demand a break from the Club of Croatian Sovereigns for 10 minutes, of course for consultation on the law in question, and to point out once more...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180104	I'm sorry, but we haven't even started talking about the law yet, so now we're supplementing, so a little later can we?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180105	...for 20.../incomprehensible, yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180106	We're counting, counting on you. So, you've been given a written form, I suggest you supplement your agenda. Is anyone against anything? If not, this shall be the case in accordance with Article 206(1). I hereby lay down that the legislative proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the implementation of the law on monetary assets with the final proposal of the law is an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 855 included in the agenda by emergency procedure. If any of the representatives have objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the case of the adoption of the law under point 7 of the proposed amendment, this is the Proposal for a Law on the Regulation of the position of the Contracting Parties in contracts concluded with a foreign believer with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 853, Proposer Mira Bulja, do you mind? In the absence of any comments, the proposal to implement the emergency procedure is deemed to be accepted in accordance with Article 205. In accordance with Article 225(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 225(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The rules of procedure of the written objections at the remaining points of the draft draft agenda have not been established that all the proposed items have been included in the 16th session agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180107	I'm sorry, we still have an addition to the agenda that came in the meantime, and the government had a session, so I'm going to do it in accordance with the article. 226.St. 2. The Rules of Procedure shall propose the addition of the agenda with five new points. The proposal for a revision of the agenda was submitted by electronic means, only one item per emergency procedure is the Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Electronic Communications with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 881. Any objections to the urgency of the procedure? If no emergency procedure has been accepted, I shall determine that all the proposed items are included in the 16th session agenda. We will continue tomorrow at 9.30 we will have one item on the agenda, that is the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the implementation of the budget implementation, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 855. Now we will only ask you to leave the hall because we will hold a session of the Presidency here in 10 minutes and invite all members of the Bureau and also representatives of the clubs to come to agree on further work of the Croatian Parliament. Thank you. SESSION Interrupted at 13.03 p.m. Good morning, I apologize for the little delay because I made statements as we had already established at the Croatian Parliament Presidency, since the Croatian Parliament building suffered quite a lot of damage from the earthquake that hit us on Sunday, given the assessment of the statisticians that 3 and 4 floors could not function, since the assembly also ran out of heating, without air conditioning, without ventilation, and the chambers that are located above the plenary hall itself were also damaged, the air-conditioning chamber was bent, heating, we had to make a decision on the change of location. The first idea was the space of the City of Zagreb City Assembly, however it is not in the opinion of the statisticians 100% safe, so we then opted for a space here of the State Inspectorate. I thank the Chief State Inspector for giving us this space. This space also has a historical meaning for our country, so I hope that this time we will be able to work normally on the benefit of our citizens and our homeland. Croatia faced two major disasters, one is the crown virus where we share the fate of the whole world, and the other is the earthquake that hit the City of Zagreb that has only made it difficult and already quite difficult and demanding. Unfortunately, in that earthquake, many people lost their roof over their heads, their houses were torn down, many cannot live in their homes and states and the City of Zagreb took care of and immediately found a solution on the first day, and through the next days, if there is a need, they will all be taken care of. However, there was a tragedy and loss of a young life, a 15 - year - old girl, Anamarie who lived in the city center, who unfortunately died. I'd like to invite you now to honor our little girl Animarija for a minute of silence. - A minute of silence – Let her be an easy Croatian country.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180110	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I warmly welcome you all. We're continuing today's session. First, we'll do it in accordance with the article. 226.St. 2. Rules of Procedure, I would like to propose an addition to the 16th session agenda with four new points. 1st item is the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Elections with a final draft law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading. 2. is the proposal for a law supplementing the Value Added Tax Act with a final draft law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, proposed by the Club of Representatives of the SDP. The 3rd point is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements on Agricultural Land with a final draft law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading. Proposer is Representative Miro Bulj. Point 4 is the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the law on local elections with a final draft law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, is proposed by MP Tomislav Panenic. The proposal for supplementing the agenda has been submitted by electronic means in accordance with Article. The 227 Rules of Procedure determines firstly that a proposal is to be adopted by means of an urgent procedure. I would like to stress that for all points in the proposed addition to the agenda, it is proposed to adopt an emergency procedure and I am assessing that there is no need to read them again. Do any of the representatives have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the law of the proposed amendment to the agenda? If there are no objections, I believe that the proposal for an emergency procedure is accepted in accordance with Article. 205. Rules of Procedure. I find that all the proposed items are included in the 16th session agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180111	Dear colleagues and colleagues, good morning, I welcome you all. Yesterday, we completed the agenda, and today we will announce 7 points, and on Monday 5 of these we announced. So today I propose a united debate on the laws from 1 to 3, the draft law supplementing the General Tax Law, the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Accounting and the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2020. These are the laws of the Ministry of Finance, so when we were done, we would do a joint draft law on the amendments to the Law on Tourist Communities and the promotion of Croatian Tourism, the Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Law on Tourist Taxation, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the provision of services in tourism and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Completion of the Law on Hosting Activity. So, a united discussion of the 4 laws in the area of the tourism ministry. On Monday, we would like to bring together the debate with the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on travel documents of Croatian citizens, the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on the ID card, the Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Law on Road Traffic Safety and the Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Law on the acquisition and possession of weapons of citizens. This would be a united discussion of the MUP and would have one law in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Agriculture, a proposal for a law supplementing the Agriculture Act. Do you agree with that approach? If so, thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180112	... [[Speaker not enabled]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180113	Okay. So now I have two, two things. Before we came here, a part of the MPs asked that not only those representatives sitting in the hall could be replicated at the presentation of the promoter, but also those watching the transfer in the hall outside. So this will significantly complicate our situation because we primarily need to take care of health here and here and we are this complicated because we need to keep our distance to avoid any contact that can infect someone. I'm against it in principle, but I'd also like to make it possible for everyone to express their position. At the same time, if we're going to extend the time for discussion, then we're going to spend a lot of hours here today, which will again be a certain risk given this space that's closed and then we're actually jumping into our mouths, breaking down that system that's made to make health all right. So if I were to ask you to stay for 10 minutes, then the government would speak 20 minutes, so we would cut 30 minutes and the government to 20 minutes, and then we'd do the replicas the next way. We're gonna put a microphone right there at the door, so those of you who are talking, because you can do it technically, so that the microphone is standing there somewhere by the camera, so that this one doesn't come in or walk, but only to change immediately at the entrance from the hall. Okay. Here's my colleague, Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180114	... [[Speaker not enabled]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180115	Okay. So the proposal came from the SDP. Does the SDP agree to extend it to 15 minutes, so we can reduce the number of replicas and remain only the ones in the hall. Do you agree? Well, then we'll extend the debate, so for 15 minutes, only those in the hall will replicate, and then this government will also speak for 30 minutes. Thank you, colleague Lovrinović, thank you and SDP for understanding and I ask you to hold on to it then because the real reason why we do this is health, so please let us hold on to it. So now we're going to do a few things. I'll do it first in accordance with the article. 226.St. 2. The Rules of Procedure propose the completion of the agenda with 8 new points, these are 7 points proposed by the representative Bozo Petrov: - Final or proposal for a law amending the General Tax Act, - Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law on Taxation on Profits, - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Tax on Income, - Proposal for an Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax, - Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Law on Memberships in Tourist Communities, - Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Birth and Parent Support, - Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Law on HGK Law and one point proposed by the SDP Club of Representatives and Alexic: - Proposal for a Law on Moratory of Credit Obligors. All laws are proposed in an emergency procedure. You've got everything by the electronic pathway. We agree to put those points on the agenda. If so, thank you and those points will be included in agenda 16. Sit down. Now just a few more notices. So, tomorrow we'll be working at the Westin Hotel, given that we have a vote, this space is not big enough, so we can't vote here. We'd start working at 9:00 and 30 minutes with a statement on the amendments. So far it's 29 amendments, so I guess this one's going to be on some more amendments today, and then we'll leave two and a half hours for a statement on the amendments, so the vote will be tomorrow at 12 o'clock at the Westin Hotel, we'll count the votes manually, I've arranged with the Secretary of Parliament how it will be organised. After the vote, we would have, as always, a free speech and then we would discuss a package of SDP laws proposed last week on the agenda. After that, we would end the session and continue on 15.4. I hope in the Croatian Parliament. Today, once again, the builders and the statisticians are in the building of the assembly, re-evaluating the assembly, and if all is well 15.4. they would be in the Croatian Assembly and continue to work. Any questions, if anything's not clear? Stanka can't do it yet because we haven't started the agenda yet. So today we would do as announced, we would first have a united debate on the laws of the Ministry of Finance, the 4 laws, then be the Agriculture Act and then have a united debate on the laws of the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180119	Good morning, I want everyone, ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives. At the beginning of today's work, we remember two moments from our history, today is the 75th anniversary of the breakthrough of the last prisoners from the Ustasha camp Jasenovac and the whole state summit is there today to mark this event, and we remember that with the piteto. And let me also remind you that on today, exactly 30 years ago, the first multiparty free elections were held in the Republic of Croatia, the first round of these elections, starting with a chapter of the newer history of Croatia and the process of its independence, and should be remembered. Here's before we move on to taking the club stand as usual, and about today's work, I suggest that I base an art. 247. The Rules of Procedure we hold a united debate on the first two points of today's agenda, these are: The Final Proposal of the Law on the Completion of the Foreign Law, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 926 and the Final Proposal of the Law supplementing the Law on Citizens of the Member States of the European Economic Area and members of their families, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 927. I also propose that we conduct a united debate and on the next 9 points of which, for 8 legislative proposals, the motion is a respected representative of Bozo Petrov and, for one proposal, the conclusion of the club of the Independent Lists. So if you agree to accept such a concept of work today? No one's against it, thank you very much, then we'll continue. In that sense, we're going to unite these first two points and then unite the next nine points.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180120	My colleagues and colleagues, we're starting work. In accordance with paragraph 226. Rules of Procedure, I will propose the first addition of the 16th session agenda with 8 new points: 1) Proposal for a Law on Intervention Measures in executive and bankruptcy procedures during the period of special circumstances with the final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 933 1) Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Voluntary Health Insurance Act with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 934 1) Proposal for a Law on support for part-time cuts in order to preserve jobs with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 932, Proposer: Club of Representatives of the SDP 1) Final Proposal for a Law implementing Regulation (EU) 2017/2394 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 12 December 2017 on cooperation between national authorities responsible for the enforcement of consumer protection rules and repealing Regulation (EC) No 2006/2004, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 844 5) Proposal for a law supplementing the Value Added Tax Act, first reading, P.Z. No. 929 Proposer: Club of Representatives of MOST Independent Lists 5) Proposal for a Family Supplement Act with Pensions, First Reading, P.Z. No. 930, Proposer: Club of HSU Representatives, SNAGA, Independent Representatives and New Policy, 5) Proposal for a Law amending the Pension Insurance Act, first reading, P.Z. No. 931, Proposer: Club of HSU Representatives, SNAGA, Independent Representatives and New Policy, 5) Proposal for a conclusion on the completion of the criteria for maintaining jobs in the activities affected by the Coronal Virus, Proposer: SDP Representatives' Club The proposal for a supplementation of the agenda was submitted by electronic means. Art. 227. The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt a specific law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure. Any of the representatives have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure for the adoption under points 1 to 3 of the proposed supplement? If there are no objections, I believe that the proposal for an emergency procedure is accepted in accordance with Article. 205. Rules of Procedure. How appropriate. Article 225(4) The Rules of Procedure of Written Objections at the remaining points of the proposal for supplementing the agenda were not, and I would like to conclude that all the proposed items have been included in the agenda of the 16th session.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180121	Dear colleagues and colleagues, good morning. We're starting work. Before we go on a free speech by the representatives' clubs according to article. 226.St. 2. I will propose to the Rules of Procedure an addition to the 16th session agenda with 7 new points. The proposal to supplement the agenda was submitted by electronic means. Art. 227. The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt a specific law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure. Any of the representatives have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the case of the adoption of the law under points 1-4 and 5 of the proposed supplement? In the absence of any comments, a proposal for the implementation of the emergency procedure shall be deemed to be accepted in accordance with Article. 205. Rules of Procedure. How appropriate. The 225th century 4th century. The rules of procedure of the written objections at the proposed points of supplementation of the agenda were not available, i.e. all the proposed items were included in the 16th session agenda. I would also like to inform you that today, as part of the agenda, we will discuss and the item on which we have just completed the agenda, and this is the proposal for a Rules of Procedure to supplement the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament with the final proposal of the Rules of Procedure. The proposer is the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system, and we would then determine, not only by agreement but also by the Rules of Procedure of the work of the HS under these special circumstances. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I wish everyone a good morning. We're going back to work. Before we go to free debates pursuant to Article 226(2). I will propose to the Rules of Procedure an addition to the 16th session agenda with 8 new points. The proposal for a supplement was submitted by electronic means. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt certain laws is subject to an urgent procedure. Article 206 lays down that, following an urgent procedure, laws are adopted which comply with EU documents if requested by the applicant and are not voted on, that is, point 3 of the proposed supplement. In accordance with Article 206. For the purposes of this Article, the following definitions shall apply: I hereby declare that this legislative proposal is included in the agenda by emergency procedure. Any of the representatives have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the case of the adoption of the law under point 1 of the proposed supplement, which is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Mandatory Pension Funds with the final proposal of the Law? In the absence of any comments, it is considered that an emergency procedure proposal in accordance with Article 205 has been adopted. Rules of Procedure. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The rules of procedure of the written objections at the remaining points of the agenda have not been established that all the proposed items have been included in the 16th session agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180123	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I'll do it in accordance with article. Article 226(2) Rules of Procedure, to suggest the addition of the 16th session agenda with 16 new points, you have received a proposal to supplement the agenda by electronic means. Art. 227. The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt a specific law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure. Do any of the respected representatives and advocates have objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the laws under points 3, 4 and 5 of the proposed supplement? There appears to be no, therefore, if there are no objections, a proposal for the implementation of an emergency procedure is deemed to be accepted in accordance with Article. 205. Rules of Procedure for these three draft laws. How appropriate. Article 225(4) The Rules of Procedure of Written Objections at the remaining points of the proposal for supplementing the agenda were not, and I would like to conclude that all the proposed items have been included in the agenda of the 16th session.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180124	Good morning, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Here you go, colleague Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180125	Thank you very much. Here's one thing I'd like to ask you before we begin the session, this one to give me one simple answer. So MPs in the Croatian Parliament and Croatian citizens deserve an answer when we will go to the elections, since no government has so far set a matchmaker against citizens to tell them not to but to calculate in their own interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180126	Comrade Maras, please sit down, Comrade Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180127	So will it, will the council disband this...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180128	Comrade Maras, please, I can't turn off your microphone, please sit down, have a free debate today at 13 o'clock you can say whatever you want, this is now, no, please sit down... Please sit down at 13 o'clock free speech and you can say whatever you want as always, but please stick to the Rules of Procedure. [[Intruder: You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180129	Then I'm looking for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180130	Are you looking for a break? You can't ask for a break, so when the debate starts, you'll fit in fine, and you'll get a break, but right now you can't because I haven't even started with what I wanted to say. So before we move on to the debate on the first point of today's schedule, I suggest that I base Article 247. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament and the Final Proposal of the Law on the Implementation of the EU Regulation 2017/2402 laying down a general framework for securitisation and establishing a specific framework for simple, transparent and standardised securitisation, second reading, P.Z. Number 857. Are we in agreement? If we did, that's the second and third points of the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180131	Madam and gentlemen of the Parliament, before we move to the first item of today's agenda, in accordance with the article. 226.St. 2. I will propose to the Rules of Procedure an addition to the 16th session agenda with two new points, i.e.: 1.a) Proposal for a decision on the resolution of the President of the Competition Protection Council and (a) Proposal for a decision to appoint the President of the Competition Protection Council, and second point 2. Proposal for a decision to dissolve HS. The proposed representatives of the HDZ Club, the Croatian National Liberal Party of Liberal Democrats Club, the HDS Representatives' Club, the HSLS and the Croatian Democratic Union of Slavonia and Baranja, the National Minority Representatives' Club, the SDSS Representatives' Club and the Party of Labour and Solidarity and Independent Representatives' Club. The proposal to supplement the agenda was submitted by electronic means. How appropriate. 225. There were no rules of procedure of written objections to the proposal to supplement the agenda, i.e. that all the proposed items were included in the 16th session agenda. I also inform you that the points from which we have completed the agenda will be discussed today after the amendment has been made. Since HS is the sponsor of the celebration, I invite you to remember with the piety all the victims killed by the communist regime without court after the end of World War II in Bleiburg, but also all other places and cross roads. May the light soil beneath which the bones rest wherever they may be. Madam and gentlemen of the Parliament, before we move to the first item of today's agenda, in accordance with the article. 226.St. 2. I will propose to the Rules of Procedure an addition to the 16th session agenda with two new points, i.e.: 1.a) Proposal for a decision on the resolution of the President of the Competition Protection Council and (a) Proposal for a decision to appoint the President of the Competition Protection Council, and second point 2. Proposal for a decision to dissolve HS. The proposed representatives of the HDZ Club, the Croatian National Liberal Party of Liberal Democrats Club, the HDS Representatives' Club, the HSLS and the Croatian Democratic Union of Slavonia and Baranja, the National Minority Representatives' Club, the SDSS Representatives' Club and the Party of Labour and Solidarity and Independent Representatives' Club. The proposal to supplement the agenda was submitted by electronic means. How appropriate. 225. There were no rules of procedure of written objections to the proposal to supplement the agenda, i.e. that all the proposed items were included in the 16th session agenda. I also inform you that the points from which we have completed the agenda will be discussed today after the amendment has been made. Since HS is the sponsor of the celebration, I invite you to remember with the piety all the victims killed by the communist regime without court after the end of World War II in Bleiburg, but also all other places and cross roads. May the light soil beneath which the bones rest wherever they may be. Madam and gentlemen of the Parliament, before we move to the first item of today's agenda, in accordance with the article. 226.St. 2. I will propose to the Rules of Procedure an addition to the 16th session agenda with two new points, i.e.: 1.a) Proposal for a decision on the resolution of the President of the Competition Protection Council and (a) Proposal for a decision to appoint the President of the Competition Protection Council, and second point 2. Proposal for a decision to dissolve HS. The proposed representatives of the HDZ Club, the Croatian National Liberal Party of Liberal Democrats Club, the HDS Representatives' Club, the HSLS and the Croatian Democratic Union of Slavonia and Baranja, the National Minority Representatives' Club, the SDSS Representatives' Club and the Party of Labour and Solidarity and Independent Representatives' Club. The proposal to supplement the agenda was submitted by electronic means. How appropriate. 225. There were no rules of procedure of written objections to the proposal to supplement the agenda, i.e. that all the proposed items were included in the 16th session agenda. I also inform you that the points from which we have completed the agenda will be discussed today after the amendment has been made. Since HS is the sponsor of the celebration, I invite you to remember with the piety all the victims killed by the communist regime without court after the end of World War II in Bleiburg, but also all other places and cross roads. May the light soil beneath which the bones rest wherever they may be. Once again, let's make it easy for them. And now we move on to the club stand, and after that, I'm setting a break, the break will be by 3:30, and then we'll continue with the next point at 3:30. Now we're going to take a stand on behalf of the clubs. The first club will be the representative of Croatian sovereigns and independent representatives Zeljko Glasnović and Zlatko Hasanbegovic. Here you go. In the name of the club will speak the respected representative of Hrvoje Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180133	Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected vice president of the assembly, respected ministers who are leaving the assembly here today are marking the anniversary of our country's international recognition on January 15, 1992, and no one has actually mentioned today and it has been forgotten that 3 days after the international recognition in a small Dalmatian village of Ervenik, in the hamlet of Sasic, one of the worst crimes in the Homeland War was committed. The whole family was then killed in that village, and the Cengic family, the father Drago, the mother of Nevenka and two underage children are only 11 years old and Goran is only 4 years old. One of the reasons they were killed was also revenge on the state of Croatia for its international recognition, one jealousy. And why am I bringing this up today? I'm talking about the reason the state here has completely failed. It is interesting that all of these, that everyone who committed this crime and convicted naturally in absentia, were not present at the trial, which is Slobodan Kovacevic, Damir Travica, Željko Travica, Veljko Travica, Nebojsa Travica, Vujo Sašić and Vojislav Romić and Boško Kovacevic. Only Damir Travica came to the Croatian judiciary later in 2008, serving 15-year prison sentences, and what is interesting to others is not called an APB. Is it possible? Here I call from this place on the Croatian institutions, I call on Minister Bozinović and Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic when he hears this debate, when he hears what I'm saying now, to finally put out warrants for war criminals who killed 28 years ago, killed an innocent Croatian family. And there's one more thing I'd like to mention. On this day of 1992, in Croatian camps, many Croats today suffered the biggest beatings, and I am talking about Croatian prisoners of war in Serbian concentration camps, of course, in Serbia. It is today that they are beaten more than ever to avenge the Croats, meaning our defenders who have been held captive for international recognition of the Republic of Croatia. However, we see that institutions do not function because we see that there is not really any empathy of the Croatian government according to what has been happening, and I will say another latest proof of how many institutions do not function. In fact, on 21 February 2017, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia made a decision that, within 2 years, a new law called, still, the Law on Health Measures for the exercise of the right to free decision on the birth of children, some will call it the law on abortion, I will talk about the law on the protection of life. Parliament Speaker Mr. Jandrokovic, Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic did not lift his finger for two years to pass the law. It is clear why, because this law exists to them or they would pass some other law that would further liberalise abortions. That Christian, democratic law, they do not want to pass. And that's why they don't respect the Constitutional Court's decision. But now aside from the fact that Andrej Plenkovic is an abortion, which I am against abortion, I would be talking about another thing here. Regardless of the position from which we are performing, I believe that we must all strive that the decisions of the Constitutional Court must be respected and not respected. So, one of the highest bodies in the Croatian state, the Constitutional Court has reached a solution, and Mr. Andrej Plenkovic, Prime Minister, Mr. Jandrokovic, the President of the Croatian Parliament, does not care.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180134	Thank you very much. Thank you and we are now moving to deliver a position on behalf of the club of representatives and independent representatives, meaning club and independent representatives. The first is Mr. Zeljko Glasovic on behalf of Croatian sovereigns and two independent representatives of Mr. Hasanbegovic and Zekanovic. Here you go. We'll stop time. Please, please, please. Please, Mr. Glasovic is waiting, excuse me, Mr. Glasovic is waiting for you to stop talking. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180136	Dear colleagues and colleagues of these comrades and friends, some prefer to be called this one, comrades and friends of today's theme of agriculture, yesterday we heard a litany of data from the Minister of Agriculture, data but you have one proverb that says you have lies, bigger lies you have statistics. We heard that, I think, if I remember well, from 2014 to '20. that this agricultural incentives fee has been increased to 15.7 billion kuna. That means it's more than 100 billion kuna since the '90s, back in '92. when we began to build a Croatian state. What's the situation on the ground, like agricultural policy? What about growing exotic fruits and vegetables? It can be sold immediately. I haven't heard much about it I don't know anything about it, not just waiting for incentives for these other standard crops, wheat, etc., tails. What about the storage and processing centers for fruits and vegetables in eastern Slavonia? What is it, we're following the opening of new markets in the first place. Here, where are the pigs' slaughterhouses? Some places are being raised by pigs, you don't have 50 kilometers around the slaughterhouse. What's going on? New markets. The African plague has killed, and the swine fever of about 40 million was shot off by a pig in China. Vietnam is the 5th in the world to grow pigs for about 6 million. Every good boar is sold there from 300 to 1,000 dollars, what we do about it, and pig farming falls. Rural development, Serbia gave up to 50, 50 hectares of land gave people just to deal with agriculture. What do we do, and whose land do we assign, why is the empty eastern Slavonia? Because we killed 100,000 and drove them away from the Folksdojcher, that's why it's empty,.../incomprehensible/... is a minority, I've never heard it from the mouth of people who represent Croatian peasants. Slovenia pays $45,000 to every man just to deal with agriculture. It's ruled by a demographic monster. Fish farms, technicians make $75,000 in America, agricultural technician, owner of this fish farm up to $150,000. Where do we invest this money and how do we make this performance on the ground? No, we spent 100 billion kuna, someone planted two plums and slipped, it's in a civilized world unimaginable. We don't have any information on this issue, and since that money is being spent, it's just a smoke screen, and I'd say some kind of vaginal manipulation. What we can expect from the greatest, when the biggest agriculturals on agrarian reform when the biggest opposition party praises the collectiveization of Stalinov, who drove 150 million peasants into collectives and killed millions of what was in the head, by smoothing them to death. Yeah, it's SDP, SDP. And what to expect now from HSS, the peasant parties that deal more with this collaboration with former refugees, anarchocomunists, than it is with agriculture, that no one has spoken of it, Mr. Whiteman's last statements, that means that we live in a world like that Animal Farm novel, that when animals of Orwell's novel, when animals take over the farm and have their orders, and one order at the end and pigs are the main ones there, of course, pigs, and when pigs make orders there, they write orders that some animals are more equal than others. I don't even know if this attorney general came forward when it came to this scandalous statement by Mr. Bernardic and Mr. Beljak, that but the wolf's hair changes, and we never have a lot of anarchocommunists here dealing with, they have no idea of agriculture, but they're just calling for a former failed experiment called Yugoslavia that destroyed a total village, the peasants pushed into small apartments of 25 m2 and that's why the village is abandoned, and our party is leading the same policy and the prince's cat radio is spinning in the grave like a sound. Here, I show this front page of Homeland magazine, it says here, we've got a picture of a South-Zoomboid and it's writing that eclipse of the ubiquitous mind.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180137	Thank you very much. The wolf's hair changes, but... Here you go, Mr. Ante Pranic. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] and Zeljko Lenart, I'm sorry. [[Intruder: Lenart, Lenart]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180138	Dear colleagues and colleagues and chairman, here I am...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180139	The next club of representatives is that of Croatian sovereigns and independent representatives Željko Glasnović and Zlatko Hasanbegovic on behalf of whom the respected representative Zeljko Glasnovic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180140	Dear colleagues. The cancer of Croatian society's wounds is shown on a daily basis not only in public but one serious analysis will show that the trombone and ineffectiveness of the legal system is the first threat, the internal threat of the Croatian state. Of course, when it comes to the national security plan, we do an assessment of external and internal threats. We'll see about that. The public already sees, not only by these inscriptions, open sources of information, that this country has become some kind of El Dorado for the princes of the "Drpislava" and we see now, from illegal construction, it's unimaginable out there, in a civilised state that illegal construction or purchase land somewhere, all the documentation is correct, buy land, so I had a case a year ago, invest tens of thousands of francs, euros and you see that this land has already been sold. And these are, of course, the tails of the former system where 5% of the land books are properly recorded. These are the problems of this forced confiscation of property and other of these evils from the former system. For example. We have a selective implementation of EU legislation. As an example again, I mentioned it, seized property. It hasn't been spent yet. It's in theory, but it's still waiting five years for the right law to make the owners of these properties die and that it goes into oblivion. Corruption. We know what's going on with the issue of corruption. What about corruption in the IRS as an example, when we talk about justice where a billion kuna was laundered in a circular fraud. Where Miss Merzel is, etc., now we have a problem in Virovitica and it's dragging on, slow justice is not justice. Speaking of justice, which is a slap of justice, tomorrow is the anniversary of the Cengic family's murder at Ervenik's. From paramilitary Serb formations, so-called Krajina unit, father and mother Cengic were killed and also, 2 underage children, Slobodan, 11 years old, Goran, 4 years old. And what is really raping common sense, where no warrants are prescribed for that killer yet, and we're talking about justice. But this case of the Cengic family that happened in 92, 18.1. exactly 28 years ago today. It's not gonna happen. But that's... The crimes of great Serbian imperialists that the outside world knows absolutely nothing about. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I wonder, then, if so, where Serbian paramilitary formations committed more than 90% of crime and so on. JNA where is 80% of the staff were Serbs, so what is it today, how are we looking at each other today? What about our impotent diplomacy, our academics that this is still being fought out there like some kind of civil war? Not the aggression of a great Serbian imperialism, not fascism, that's a phrasing phrase, that's a great Serbian imperialism that killed between 1912 and 41 hundred thousand people in peace, in peace, proven, proven. Killed in Kosovo, Sandzak, we have this young Lenin that he doesn't care about, Mr. Maras, he tells his stories with a man of minority who was killed by 20,000 Italians that he doesn't care about, tells his stories still, they don't care about these victims of him spikes and humor they care about. And I'd say that justice on the subject of Croatian victims has come down to this, yes, yes, I'll tell you again. Those aren't the victims of some kind of victim, you don't care. Yeah, yeah, you don't talk about it, you don't care about the Cengic family, thousands of victims, okay, okay. Then tell someone else how to floscule, foybe, etc. You don't care. Mr. Dear and that's you South-zomboids still rule under the cover of some kind of liberalism, etc., but that's not what you're interested in. So far we have nothing, nothing, what have you been doing for 20, 30 years, where are your academics telling the truth about the Homeland War? You haven't said anything about it because you think what the right hand in Serbia thinks, you think. You haven't been anywhere, you've kept your chairs today, and you're not interested in historical truth. No, Field Marshal, I've been here in the war, and you've been shitting yourself here, I came here in '92, and you were afraid that the Chetniks from Belgrade would come to you, why you accept Croatian states.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180141	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180142	Good morning, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. We continue with our session and first place is the position of clubs and independent representatives, so today the first is the first in line for Croatian Representatives' Club and Independent Representatives Zeljko Glasnović and Zlatko Hasanbegović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180143	In modern times, we often hear that politicians deny ideology, as they say, ideology is not important, it is not a world view. However, I will ask the question of whether you can live without ideology at all, whether politics can function without ideology. Obviously some can, so we also have an example in HS of people running from club to club regardless of formal, ideological, world-class commitment. Today's society deals with various topics, deals with the topic of Agrokora, Fortnenov, the problem of Oilics, deals with the problem of VAT, employment and these are all important topics, I'm not saying, all these are important topics that affect the standard, quality and lifestyle of people in a system, in a country. However, if we look at European and even global civilization a little bit, we will see that the same thing that is happening in Croatia is similar in Europe, in the EU. To avoid talking about ideology, to avoid talking about culture, tradition, heritage, and when I say, first of all, I mean that Christian culture, heritage, tradition, what Europe used to be. What Europe is, I would like, and tomorrow it will be. To make it Croatia tomorrow, still Croatia. But these topics aren't popular. These topics are like that, avoiding them in public space. However, Croatian sovereigns in this sense are not gray because the world is still, I will say black and white and here we are clear, we are here to express. Ideology is extremely important, extremely important, and I'm going to say that I've been motivated by ideology and worldview on politics, and that I'm recruited in politics, I'm going to say, as a Christian activist. And that ideologies will never give up. And all those who avoid talking about ideology, they have a problem with the fact that ideologies don't have at all, that they don't have a worldview. But the key question is, Can we live without it in today’s world? Well, I don't think so. And then if we want, one true catharsis of society, one progress in Croatian society, Croatia as a truly sovereign state, we can, can this progress and catharsis be based on something that is gray, which is not clear? I'm sure you can't. I am convinced that without a clear worldview and ideology, which has guaranteed us the survival of all these centuries in these places, we cannot go any further. The owners in Croatia today go so far, not only the owners, often the opposition, so it is forbidden to mention II. Holy shit. War, let's not mention it, it's the past. It goes so far that it's become unpopular to talk about the Homeland War. And why did it get unpopular? Because just in the Homeland War, it was one of the most beautiful ways to show him fighting for ideology, fighting for a worldview. These people who fought and died for Croatia's freedom did not die for retirement, due to benefits. They didn't die, they didn't risk their lives so they might get a easier job tomorrow because as defenders they'd have a championship in the competition but risked their lives for ideology, for the sake of the worldview. And today it's not popular. Today we create one but me pale society, a European society that moves completely away from what it really is. Here I must also mention, that all of this is going so far, instead of building a value society, a company of control is being built, and it's becoming our streets, our roads becoming Big Brother. Thousands and thousands, even hundreds of thousands and millions of cameras are being installed around the world today, especially in Western civilization, our EU, in Croatia because someone thinks that with one terrible control where every step can be followed can take a step in society. I'm sure that only by building, building a society of values on clear principles can go forward.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180144	She's the second member of the Voice Club and a respected colleague... Comrade Zekanovic, behave yourself. ... Please sit down and get a warning, what kind of behavior it is. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Well, you're not the head of Parliament here, and you're gonna set the rules, so please sit down there. Please sit in your seat, you get a second warning, I'll take your word for it. ... What's that? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You gave that moral lecture and then you act like a hooligan. Come on, have a seat. You can't get a word in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180146	We will now stop and go to the club's position and the first on behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns' Club and Independent Representatives Željko Glasnović and Zlatko Hasanbegovic will speak for the esteemed representative Željko Glasnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180147	Dear colleagues. Yes, eternal theme, infrastructure. We're talking about the Homeland War, and no one's talking about the former state because there's a response and a solution to the source where military bases were built, let's say bullish, airport, how many billion dollars that cost down there, blown up, five months ago. 92nd, military facilities... d.o.o. For another Tito, etc., billions of dollars. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] 80% of the total value of real estate in the former state was JNA and it is facing our people, there could be no spiritual heirs talking about it, this former system, they couldn't build that or the highway in Eastern Slavonia, but Bar-Belgrade where everyone had to pay for it, and that's really the present reality, and we're talking about infrastructure. That's why Kopar is above the river, etc. But I'd like to talk about another topic. Diaspora theme. Spain passed a law through the Spanish parliament to return Jews who were driven out of Spain in 1492. It already has 6,000 requests for return, books are open, books are open from the 17th century on this land book, people are coming back, and what happens to us? Israel has a return law that, in the 22nd century, there weren't 2% of the Jews in Palestine of 700 thousand, now there are 6, over 6 million. Where are the Croats in that... Of course, they're not here because black propaganda and intentional sabotage are being run against them all the time so that these people don't come back, and we're talking about a demographic monster. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] All countries are concerned about the repatriation of their citizens because all other countries also suffer from demographic problems in Europe, Spain, for example. The average, 1.3 is the average of this birth rate and without it there is no development of the economy, there is nothing. It's the world that it is today. And in Africa, the average age is 19 years, and by 20 years from now, 2 billion people in Africa are going to be sitting in suitcases, they're going to want to come here. Not just them. Did it really take us 30 years to build a new Citizenship Act? How's that in practice? First, a man must translate all of his documents into English, Croatian or any other language, then he must fly there, let's say, if he wants to come to Canada, he has to fly six hours to Toronto, from Vancouver, then send it, has to test in Croatian to do this test, test. Then they send him to Petrinjsk. They've been sending a Blackman from Petrina where he's been waiting for months, and that's, of course, intended sabotage. We know that. Simplicity. All you have to do is make sure your father and mother is a Croat, the story is over. What a language. The law of return. It doesn't exist because it's intended sabotage from the personnel from... regimes. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Canada has set a quota of up to 20 years for 340 thousand migrants. They selectively choose migrants. Who's coming here? It's inevitable because there's also a shortage of professional strength, they'll come. Who's coming here? If we didn't attract all these citizens from the outside, there are 3 million of them, what are we going to do? But no, there is still black propaganda against Croats outside the country. This came to you roman, roman cars, hiring people, came Miksic, paid people 7.5 thousand for the kuna Christmas, 2 centers opened, and such people are not wanted here. We know why. They don't like these ex-humans, these ex-system cameras, that's what the HNS, the Croatian people's shame, the HNS, where they kept 2,000 items in Chile down for citizenship, on purpose not to have these people come here. Then we have Venezuela, etc., not but Croatian, you should love it, not love it, it is the largest business facility in Croatia are Croatian emigrants. It comes at least 16 billion kunas here and another third so, come... I had real estate, but no. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We need this great administration, we have launched a second wave of emigration, we have given half a billion kuna to the Serbian Orthodox Church, and we have not solved the Croats in BiH. We're paying tens of thousands of pensions down there, but there's another "sacological" factor. ‘Sycologically’. Psychological factor. Why won't some of them come back? When they hear their heads like Stazic, Mr. Stazic, Mr. Whiteman and others. So they say, so we're not going back to the former South, and that's where I drew you who you are, that you've never really changed, this mass murderer massacred your heads there, the sickle and the hammer on the pumpkin, you're heirs to that regime. And that's why people won't come back. Simple.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180148	Thank you. My colleague, Maras, has done some damage to the Rules of Procedure. What has the Rules of Procedure been injured in?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180149	He's hurt, I don't know if you've seen, look at the video, show the chairman, so it's a mask... It's a one-man mask. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] a mass murderer from a single movie. [[Please don't yell.]] This is, I mean this is out of everyone, I don't know why you're allowing it or not responding. ... It has nothing to do with any discussions. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] In Parliament or attitudes, these things are being warned, so this is really... [[Intruder Reiner: Col. Glasnović.]] And it takes away the word, I mean the man here accuses fellow agents, shows photos of mass, though, imaginary killers, but you know what he's referring to.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180150	Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. [[Intruder: Here, thank you very much.]] My colleague Lenart is the same. A fellow Glasnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180151	Your Honor, Vice President. Here you go, Art. 238nd colleague Glasnović, is not only insulting us but insulting the entire Croatian people. It is known that his colleague Glasovic fled to Canada and was 30 years in Canada so that he would not have to fight with communists and teams he calls juzomboids or I don't know what he's already thinking. And now, is the mind and the sale of demagogy to Croatian children and with this kind of nonsense offends the MPs in HS. I'm asking you to give him at least a warning, even if it doesn't mean anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180152	Yeah. Neither of you have called on the article either, this Rules of Procedure, and unfortunately, in free speech, you know that all sorts of things are said, many that many would disagree with, but so we have chosen and so we have decided. To have a free speech in which, therefore, it is said, everything and everything, unfortunately sometimes.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180153	On behalf of Croatian Representatives' Club and Independent Representatives Zeljko Glasovic and Zlatko Hasanbegovic, second debate was held. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180154	Dear colleagues and colleagues. Your Honor. Well, I was actually going to talk about other things, I'm going to try a little bit about what I've prepared, but I've got to do a little reference on my colleague Vučetić, who I just listened to who was talking about maniacs or how he's already expressed himself here, so he defended trying to foster children from the same-sex couple if I'm not wrong in Split. I didn't hear Mr. Vučetić say here something contrary to those crazy decisions of the University of Split that in the competition it stimulates people's homosexual commitment in a way that anyone who is gay or who says it's just a statement can get 200 euros a month and that's fine. It is fine, however, Mr. Vučetic will not speak of it of course regardless of which he is background, but he forgot Mr. Vučetić that we have the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and that the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia exists one article. In 62, which he says, marriage is a community of women and men. Point. Basta. Amen. So there is a loud and clear statement of what the Croatian people think about what you're saying, with two-thirds said that marriage is a community exclusively of women and men, and adoption and adoption is regulated exclusively for marriage communities. So in that sense, I'd like you to be more objective or objective, you can't be objective as you speak. Of course, I'm not always, either, I'm not objective, but more objective, so just as you're hitting this conservative part of the conservative world, to hit this liberal a little bit so you can comment, you have a chance today to call a press conference and comment on the crazy decision of the Split University that in the framework of Erasmus competition that anyone who is gay has the right to 200 euros in scholarships at Split University. Why wouldn't anyone who was heterosexual have that? Or why don't we have blondes? Why wouldn't they have blacks or those with long nails or short nails? Why don't we have those with dioptria stimuli? And that's not a question to you, that's fine with you. Is it okay for you to have someone do homosexual orientation, or do their sexual orientation stimulate as a student? So what does that have to do with studying? Absolutely nothing. I wanted to say something today about this latest shift of another, if I am not mistaken, the 14th Minister in the Croatian Government, Mr Kujundzic. So you'd just make a little comparison with Minister Divjak. Minister Divjak, regardless of being responsible for his own negligence, reluctantly, for six and a half million kunas of budget money, remains a minister. And the Prime Minister here in the House defended her regardless of the tax inspection finding that she was double paid for a job she was already doing is still a minister. And as for Mr. Kujundzic, I think this is a thank you because like all ministers in the government of Andrej Plenkovic, he supported the Istanbul Convention. That's thanking him for being loyal. There. He's back. It came back to him that he was not loyal or loyal or that he had trampled on his worldview. The question is whether he got hit or not. But this is very interesting. And finally this key question, if for some reason someone has been removed from the minister's post, and there is some kind of delict, something exists, so how can it be good for the Croatian Parliament? I think the Croatian Parliament is the highest place for the Croatian state, for the Croatian people. And that's one big illogicality to me. But I'm still going to have to conclude here. Minister Divjak remained exclusively because there is a Serbian-Croatian or Croatian-Serbian trade coalition that is dependent on Andrej Plenkovic and his government because she is part of the HNS, and Minister Kujundzic has left only because at this point he does not answer to the Prime Minister because if he were to answer, he would fight for him. Of course, if he's responsible, let him answer for what he's done, let him answer for the property card and for all the other crimes he may have committed.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180155	Dear colleagues and colleagues, first on behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns and Independent Representatives Zeljko Glasnović and Zlatko Hasanbegovic will speak on behalf of the Honorable Representative Željko Glasnović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180156	Dear colleagues, fellow Members, another session is over and we see that the war in Croatia is being fought not only politically but also at the cultural level when we look up Rijeka, the European Capital of Culture, how much, 10 million kunas will cost up those performances, when you look up what these performances are, we would think we are going back to the former South or Sj. Korea. We have a south-Yogo, a choreography where we take part in Partisan, there we have poses of Partisan heroes, they fit in with group exercises, it has the sounds of revolutionary songs, political slogans, landings, you remember what "we are Titini, Tito is ours", on Trisat we have an exhibition of Spanish-civil war, so I would think that we are in the Soviet Union somewhere, in the deepest winter of Stalinistism. Not only that, at the cultural level, we have a hickey against Croatian studies. Some people seem to mind the adjective of “Croatian studies. ” Croatian studies are the best college of social sciences in this country, they are formed, founded in '92. A year in a war with the help of emigrants and emigrants. They are counterweighted to the Faculty of Politicology and the Faculty of Philosophy, which serves most of them today, and today serves as a South-Communist Tumbling, for fools, these people, I don't know a lot of them, not everyone is marinated in that former system and can't get out of that mental set. In the end, it is done half a century, half a century we see it in December last year, the University of Zagreb submitted a request and a rector for Croatian studies to be recognised as a university. Until then, this red tape is a socialist brake that this decision is made in reality, it's intended sabotage, we see, perhaps these people would love some in the cultural space in Croatia if it were called more, yes... be a Yugoslav study and it's intentional sabotage. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's been a long, long month, we don't have any of this, the answer doesn't have any, and I would suggest instead of blocking, blocking and sabotage and that red tape of a socialist who's holding it off as a college, I would suggest to the minister and the government a more important thing. First, I would suggest an academic lustration in colleges, an academic lustration that we see, that the public knows the names, the former and current professors who collaborated until '91. Sir, of course, with former secret services, some cases are known, some are not only ratting out students but selling sex for exams. That, academic lustration, would suggest it and would suggest a review of all the same former and current false academic titles, diploma,... The doctorate because the way things are going, the system that created that cheating culture has never been broken down, he's here today, and if we don't, we're gonna be strong, for another 10 years, we're gonna look like Sj. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Korea and we will all be sitting here, saying those parolees as "we planted grain from the sky, let hungry England and America watch," and until we get rid of these people in colleges, social sciences in Croatia and history, etc., there will be only one failed experiment and there will be a further Budalisation that is also carried out in this House, we could hear it from speakers as Mr Bernardić who called for a collection of '45. Sir, and imagine that someone rose up in Bundestag, Germany, and called, and said that Stazi didn't kill enough people. That's shocking. If we don't rise up and defend ourselves primarily against this cultural Marxism, let civil war not only ring out on a cultural scale.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180157	We are going to another debate, it is a discussion of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns and Independent Representatives Željko Glasnović and Zlatko Hasanbegovic and the esteemed colleague of Hrvoje Zekanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180158	Dear President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. I don't want to panic, but I'm going to ask the Prime Minister, the Minister of Health, are we ready, are we ready for a possible coronary epidemic? So, I believe you all follow what's going on, but some things are simply misrepresented. So today, 24562 people were infected with coronary virus, 493 people died, and only 910. So I'll repeat 25,000 soon. This number doesn't mean anymore, but just seven days ago, the number of patients was 6,000, so four times smaller. It's 25,000 today, and seven days ago it was four times smaller. Trend growth is 15% a day, I'll repeat 15% a day. If you make a diagram of the growth of the sick, and it's made by the epidemiologists, then you'll see that with simple mathematics you come in that the number will double every 20 days. So every 20 days we're gonna have 10 times as many patients. Whether this is the way to continue the course of this disease in the world is not safe, but you are expected to read it on many medical portals that that peak of this disease will only happen somewhere in May or April. So there is a legitimate danger that this severe disease, which has a very high mortality rate of almost 3%, may occur tomorrow in Croatia and Croatia, or that there may be an epidemic of coronary virus in Croatia. And now I'm asking if we're ready for a simple reason. This morning when I was coming here, I wanted to present one of those masks that should be in the pharmacy, so I couldn't find her, the only thing I found was these gloves from that basic medical equipment. So, right now in Croatian pharmacies there are no masks, no masks. I do not want to spread the panic, but I am asking the question of the Minister of Health, I am asking the question of the Prime Minister, or the President of the Government, Andrej Plenkovic, why not, is it possible that we are already at this early stage when the disease did not arrive in Croatia without basic medical assistance to put this disease under control. Is that possible? Furthermore, very important information that 25 to 30% of patients end up on the respirator is currently 7,000 people on respirators in China. How many Croatia has a respirator? This disease isn't that far. It is already in 28 countries today, meaning other than China, Thailand, Singapore, Japan, South Korea, the United States, but it is also in many European countries Germany, France, Italy, Russia, Belgium, Spain, Finland, Sweden, in our neighborhood. So this disease is slowly spreading. Slowly but surely. Trend is clear, from New Year's Eve to today on a daily basis 15% of the growth of the sick. Where's the end I don't know, but I'm just asking if we're ready? One India where there are not so many patients, and the vast country is it has banned the export of medical equipment and gloves and protective masks and Panic procurement of 1,000 respirators, if the disease happens to come to that great country. I'll repeat the question again. Are we ready? Does Croatia have enough respirators? I'll repeat every 4 or almost every third patient ends up on the respirator and do we have tomorrow because there are no masks in Croatian pharmacies as the primary medical aid for this disease? Perhaps I can conclude in a way that this disease is the only thing that won't hit, it won't probably hit the Croatian Parliament, and it won't hit it because it simply doesn't spread around here because colleagues rarely come to the session, so if it comes to the Croatian Parliament there will be a stat, but it wouldn't spread panic, but from this place I ask the Government of the Republic are we ready for a possible coronary epidemic?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180159	The next Club of Representatives is that of Croatian sovereigns and independent representatives Željko Glasnović and Zlatko Hasanbegovic on behalf of whom the respected representative Zeljko Glasnović will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180160	Dear colleagues, Vice President of the Parliament, the constant subject of corruption, we listen here again, we avoid the correct answer. I'm glad Mr. Maric is here, I'm glad he's here, but I wonder sometimes the key question of how to spend taxpayers' money. If politics can set priorities, how does the state separate money for what priorities? We know if there's no recession now we need to put the money aside if there's a recession for the key to these critical things in society. How do you spend taxpayers' money? Recently I saw on television this microcosm as the Croatian state works I see a ruling coalition entering, in fact the ruling coalition of 10 newest Audis coming to a town in southern Croatia. It's just the first round of insurance for the lit rotter. It's just the first round. In Japan, only the prime minister has the right to official protection. Croatia is a picture of the country actually ruling left, right wing of the party these days and their comrades sitting here acting as Democrats and new Titojugindas etc. It's an old story only in new clothes. If we see that it's spent when we say 30 billion was spent on shipbuilding. A failed project, and they're looking for money again, these up in the river, they're looking for money again. Just to lower some of that data to the ground means that every four-member Croatian family has so far paid for it has been peeled, stolen by 5,000 euros. We have agriculture, and agriculture in the former government, I don't know now I haven't seen the data is pure El Dorado for princes of the shivering. We had 100 billion kunas spent. Where are those cows? Where are your processed fruit centers, vegetables where is it? Where are these for storage? Nothing there when we watch where that money is spent, how do you monitor it? So, of course, corruption and three-way state apparatus and institutions are still the biggest threat in the Croatian state after the mental heritage of the communism of the one-party system that puts us all in despair daily. Here's 30 years we haven't had a mechanism for implementing the terrain yet. We are here at the bottom of the European Union, at the bottom of the issue of law enforcement. Every organization that will be a functional organization has 3 elements that it functions effectively to be state-of-the-art, to be effective. It's the first filling, training and equipment. Now that we're looking at medical personnel... they're attacking nurses. Hospital staff's going out. How are they paid? They're going out. We've got the police. That's where they shake hands with economic immigrants. Half of them are infected with HIV. I don't know which other bacteria and baccales and I don't know maybe not the Ebola yet, but they pay five and a half thousand kuna on average. How are you gonna get a professional for that? Educational system. What is the quality of a teacher if their salary is low? Not to mention tax administration, tax administration and how much money we lose every year from bandits who don't pay taxes and have real estate. So recently I read one there has a Viconte there 979 real estate? Well, that's not in... Texas. And what do you do? Is it hard for us to make simple laws? Simple laws, quick implementation. It's hard to form special courts just for business crime and conduct on the ground. Confiscation of the property of all the trees that didn't pay taxes, that they stole. At the end of the day for civil servants, civil servants if he was wrong there and he was wrong in corrupt actions to take property and pound his sentence from 3 to 10 years... Check every origin of the property to see who we have, not after the '90s, until the '90s, let's see. [[You don't understand.]] Of course, it hasn't been implemented yet, that law put in there in the basement and we have to implement all these simple measures we have to implement on the ground if we're going to have an effective state, if we can't all go there to Monaco.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180161	And now we will pass with a little delay, but it is good that we have finished this point I think rather than that we have interrupted it with the presentation of the position of clubs and the first on behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns and Independent Representatives Zeljko Glasnović and Zlatko Hasanbegovic will speak to the esteemed representative Željko Glasnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180162	Dear fellow MPs, Vice President of the Parliament. Key word for discrimination this morning, I think that if we look at how much money is stolen in this country annually, that every resident in this country is discriminated against, not just people with special needs. And that's why we don't have any kindergartens, or good pay for our doctors, etc. This morning I held a press conference downstairs, the key topic was corruption as the most insidious threat that threatens the Republic of Croatia. I also shared one with them... with 16 points how to combat this corruption, I handed it over to committees, institutions from the president to the next. So far, I have not received a single reply from the BUSKOK, PNUSKOK, the State's Attorney's office, and it's just a show of whether this corruption continues. I will now discuss the details, this year the European Public Prosecutor's Office is being established and the office is dealing with the illegal withdrawal of money from the euro funds. What happens when the audit comes? What will be in agriculture, 100 billion kuna, it mentions... I've mentioned it 10 times here. According to some estimates, half the money from public procurement is lost in corruption, corruption. It's a public secret that we have a policy and crime agenda like that. above me is a typical example of a gentleman here, a typical example, now going, a speck of politics and crime, we go from kleptocracy to kleptrocia. According to some estimates, 30 billion kuna is coming out of the country at a minimum. What's the modus operand of those critters, thieves? We deal with grandmothers, we raid the markets down there, we arrest the grandmothers with tobacco, and those megalops are running around, and they're with us today. Let's start with the IRS as an example of a good example of that kleptocrat. We have an example. the head of supervision of the company in the Tax Administration, is it possible that he is making fraud with transfer prices and making embassies for the parent foreign companies that establish companies here and they are thus laundering money because they are not paying taxes but paying taxes outside. De facto Tax Administration has allowed Croatia to become a single tax oasis for foreign companies. What about surveillance for big companies? You have an office for that. Solutions are accepted there without any customs documentation. What about the circular con at the IRS where a billion kuna was laundered? Then he was Prime Minister Milanovic, now the president, there worked the food company had a contract with the one fake company that participated in the circular fraud, and the godfather of the letter was best man from Mr Milanovic. Fictitious services, fictitious companies can speak forever here. What about the land books in Samobor? Where are our peasants? Here Samobor, there in Samobor, land is sold to stock companies below market price, and what happens? Then you d.o.o. Sales to others without competition, selling to other firms, e.g. Dinkel d.o.o. which went bankrupt a long time ago, under the blockade is closing down the company and selling still goes to Tona Atia project etc. They sell it... d.o.o. They build villas and houses in these villas, move in, sell for companies not to pay VAT and actually live in them. It's... a thieving up in Samobor. There's no Mr. White today, I'd ask him that, but he's not here today. All we're talking about is kidnapping in land books, so 5% of the land books in Croatia are properly recorded. It's an open door for a hoax. What's the conclusion of all this? That these institutions haven't made a single strategy for 30 years to combat corruption. This is just a play, this continues, we're not Singapore, and we should be, there's no corruption, there's power, there's ideals, there's a moral consciousness, it's not here. If we keep this up, we're gonna lose more people, and that's why we don't have the money for critical things for this thieving. And the people who are investigating here are... in companies and they're blocked and they fit that crime because they don't have a choice. We have betrayed a nation... working in these companies and this is a disgrace to the Croatian state. .../Speakers speech at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180163	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180164	We are now going to the third exhibition, which is the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns and Independent Representatives Željko Glasnović and Zlatko Hasanbegovic, a respected colleague of Hrvoje Zekanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180165	Every great nation through its history has created great statesmen, warlords, scientists, and spiritual leaders. And that's what happened in the Croatian people. The Croatian people were lucky and Aloyzi Stepinac, the blessed Aloyzi Stepinac. But Alojzius Stepinac, although here we have celebrated him for 60 years since the meaning of his moment of death and 22 years since he was declared blessed, has not yet been declared sacred. And it was not declared for the reason that Patriarch Irinej is but I will also tell Aleksandar Vukic and Nikolic that they urinated with St. Father Pope in the Vatican that he should not be declared sacred, of course with lies. With the lies that he was the Ustasha Vicar, that he defended the Ustasha regime, that he was responsible for the deaths of people in World War II. But who's telling him that? That's what he's told, that's what people who are Chetnik dukes tell him, that's what people who openly glorify the Chetish, fascist movement tell him. I will mention here an event that is interesting, and this is the Metropolitan of Porfirija Peric, who several years ago along with the 10 priests of the same Serbian Orthodox Church sang Momcila Đujic songs, meaning he was magnificent to Chetnica, he was magnificent to the fascist movement, and then we have a situation that these same people who celebrate the fascist movement of one man who was a dam for crimes in World War II, who tried and saved many and Croats and Serbs and Roma from crimes that today could not become sacred, which would mean a lot to the Croatian people. But what's interesting here is that when we talk about Porfirija Peric, the Metropolitan of the Serbian Orthodox Church, what he was doing, he was warned by a journalist, his name is Marko Juric, and instead of the State's Attorney's Office raised the process or investigated what he was singing to Momcila Djujic, and warned him that under that Chetnic slogan, under these songs that the clans and killed Croats throughout Croatia were in Croatia's Vukovar State Attorney's Office initiating proceedings against a journalist who pointed to a major political and social anomaly. How is this company? I don't know. However, about this Croatian-Serbian trade coalition in which the SDSS is something like this. He responds to the persecution of journalists, and he does not answer to the persecution of those who glorify the Chetnik movement. And that's how it is. Here, I must stress another interesting thing about this Croatian-Serbian trade coalition, which also includes HNS, which also includes Mrs Opačić, in which Mr. Opačić is. Sacha has recently been in the SDP, and so is Mr. Souch. Kajtazi, but that's Mr. Kajtazi. Kajtazi these days, so he supports the government of Andrej Plenkovic sharing in Međimurje, here we were just listening about Međimurje, sharing in Međimurje ads to children, says the right man for us Veljko Kajtazi and below Kali Sara, children. And from this point on, I would like to invite the Ombudsman for the children of Helena Pirnat Dragicevic to examine this for a little while. Have him look into what's going on. Can any representative, any child, share any propaganda materials and have children dress up in T-shirts with his face or inscriptions, that with those bags where Veliko Kajtazi writes they walk in Međimurje. Is that how the campaign can work? I don't think so. But I'm going to recapture here, this coalition, or the ruling majority that currently manages Croatia, in a way that has to please everyone, so it's probably going to please Veljak Kitazi here, so Helinka Pirnat Dragicevic won't start the procedure because he'll say it's okay. As well as all that the mayor of the city of Zagreb does, Mr. The band and as well as it's all right to do what Mr. President has done. Sucha and what HNS does because simply this government must survive at all costs.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180166	We move to deliver a position on behalf of the Club of Representatives and Independent Representatives, the first in line is Mr Ante Pranic in front of the Independent Youth List. He's gone. He's losing his right. The second is Mr. Željko Glasnović in front of Croatian sovereigns and independent representatives Zeljko Glasnović and Zlatko Hasanbegovic, please welcome Mr. Glasnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180167	Dear colleagues, the constant subject of corruption, what is done about it, that's where the heads of the DORH line up, until I don't know if UskoK was here, of course he wasn't, we have all the information. We've been taping in place for 30 years. SOA confirms that this is the biggest internal danger for the Croatian state, there was Feldmarsal Jelenic of the DORH, says it is working on the issue, but in reality it is just a smoke screen. It's not too much on HTV, it's key information, but we're looking at it for example. The fifth day, the Labyrinta, where it's clouded and completely fueled the cause of all of this. Questions, rhetorical questions, why so far has no list of red directors, businesses, commercials in the former system from the 80's to the 90's, there lies a rabbit in the bush. Where are they? What is it with those who were destroying state-owned companies, they put 20% share, a company in bankruptcy and workers on the street. Is that barely done? Is it hard to find out about these, we have EUROPOL, INTERPOL, SOA, I don't know anymore, CIA, 16 intelligence agencies, that we have no idea about bank accounts outside, more than 70,000 kuna, is that possible? And of course, that's why there's no money for HVO, that's why there's no money, now I've said about kindergartens and other critical things because there's 30 billion kunas stolen from here every year, coming out of here. And it's everybody's fault, we've got the left, right wing of the party. They're fine, they're great, and why don't they start with them when we talk about the Law of Origin of Property. What's that? Say, what about the former companies, I mentioned to you, these directors, what about the origins of the assets of these former skis? Where did that property go? Who shared that? SuBNOR, SKH,......... It's okay, buddy, I know who you are, but it smells like your soul smells in here. Shut up about it. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Talk, you're the one... [[Intruder Radin: No discussion.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Cameleon...... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's what we've been saying before, what's safe, we say it's part of national security. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]] We're talking national security. What about the files, the files of the former foster parents, etc.? Today some are sitting in the Parliament, where they paraded here today for the Assembly... But they ratted out their colleagues there in the former system, and there's also a code name Odysseus. [[You don't understand.]] And when I say that, it's forbidden on HTV, because... they stole six cameras four, five years ago from pianos to cameras. You have a cold drive there and we have to watch the red-camera confessional on Sunday at 2:00 we have to watch it, day five, the Labyrinth where the children of these former staffs and former refugees and others who ratted out their colleagues there they paraded on HTV. The last time I was on HTV, I asked a gentleman, and I'm not gonna get there. That's actually not what censorship is about. This is just one oversight of some kind of democracy here. What about stolen property? Big peasants here. You chased 200 thousand German peasants there from Eastern Slavonia, took away all the land. They were killed in camps. And today as an example, who's looking for those people back? This is a taboo topic. When you killed 66,000, your predecessors of this left party, here the party wing, then you took away 3,000 square miles of land from them. And now I'm going to tell you why Croatia is in trouble. 'Cause you've chased those guys naked with the papal kids with these... They had three grades of elementary school. [[You don't understand.]] You've been robbed by both companies. You drove the peasants to the collectives and what did we get here? We see what we've got, an empty Slavonia. Now I'm gonna say this in the end. The descendants of these Germans, five hundred of them, fled from that red terror, went to Brazil. Today, the descendants of these Germans in Brazil, the San Paulo province of GDP, their businesses are bigger than... the city of 400 thousand San Paulo in Brazil, and that's us. Until this changes, until academic and other lustration is spent, we won't go far. But these are naturally taboo topics on HTV.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180168	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, here you go, Mr. Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180169	Dear Vice President, Article 238 was injured where Mr. What's called...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180170	... /Intruder Radin: Article, article?/...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180171	238, I said.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180172	.... /Intruder Radin: 238. good./...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180173	Mr. Glasnovic insults me as an agent, so I would like to tell Mr. Glasnović that no one has ever been to the party in my family. But I'll tell you, we haven't even escaped to Canada for 30 years, and we've been hiding in Canada like you, and now you're holding moral sermons.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180174	Listen, monkey one....
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180175	You must hold the sermons and insult still...... [[The intruder doesn't understand...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180176	Mr. Glasnović, you have a breach, you have the first breach of the Rules of Procedure...... Please... [[The intruder doesn't understand...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180177	A colleague of Glasnović, a colleague of Glasnović...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180178	... /Invader Glasnović:... I didn't run anywhere, you drove me away. [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180179	Please keep the guards separate from the MPs. Please keep the guards separate from the MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180180	So here I am. I'm not afraid of you... /... [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180181	... Mr. Glasnović, we're not in the Foreign Legion. [[Intruder Glasnović:... not understood]] This is the Parliament. And please sit down and let's stop this. ... Please, nice. [[Vlasnović: not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180182	The following will be the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns and Independent Representatives Zeljko Glasnović and Zlatko Hasanbegovic, and the Honored Representative Zeljko Glasnović will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180183	Dear colleagues, vice president of the assembly, the permanent theme system, the judiciary of the functional state, what's going on. When we look at all this machine, the bureaucratic apparatus in Croatia, I think it's bigger than what the Chinese have per capitals that are in China, the Republic of China today. This one has 100,000, 100,000 people in public administration, the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs, I think 1,300 employees, what are the results of this massive red tape on the ground and what are we looking at? Is it just buying social peace, do these people stat or earn their salary? Here's an example of the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs. Where is this economic diplomacy where these greefield investments are, the empty Lika, the empty Slavonia, what are we waiting for? If the American ambassador comes, as his citizen invests $100,000 there, which is not a large sum by some standards internationally, he comes to the opening of such a company, an investment. I don't see much out there, I see there advertising prosciuttos, the Adriatic and the truffles, but it's a low zone, the season only lasts so long, which is after that. Law enforcement, we are at the bottom of the EU, here at the bottom, of which I think 52, 113 countries, Croatia is 52 after the implementation of the rules. We have a total gap on the ground between regulations and laws and enforcement. For example, simple examples in the country of the suburbs of London have an illegal eldorado on the Adriatic, concreteization, illegal building on islands, I read recently that 250 objects are. If you say illegal construction in Canada, Switzerland, you'd end up there in a mental hospital in electroshock therapy it's an unknown term, and of course there's an eldorado for kletocrates, why we're surprised, because it's the same mental set of that gangan. We have parties sitting here, for example. This party of destructive individuals, Croatian national shame, right wing of the party, etc. And as we're surprised, the mental circuit remains the same. Here, wild dumps, Zagreb looks like, separating this green energy, the green plan for Europe, we compare with Switzerland, so on, Denmark, and Zagreb looks like Calcutta on the Sava. Look around in Zagreb here we have waste disposal in national parks from the Adriatic toll, I think there what was thrown there for decades, tons of waste, and who was to blame. It's not just the system, it's the metal heritage of Communism that annulled the concept of individual responsibility. Building permits,.../incomprehensible/... registration until it's all finished it costs more than you'll build the house, and that corruption at every level actually generates corruption. Everyone's asking for a piece of cash from these 200,000 tenants, extras by the offices. I mentioned a few days ago this what's going on in the IRS, we're still waiting for a solution for mammal roads, for the IRS, etc. Slow justice is not justice. 1,000 Croats waiting to return seized violent property. That's what Mr. Shucker mentioned in line with the European standards of the judiciary, no, it's just a mere smoke curtain. 1,000 people are looking for their property back and that law has been extended for five years. Those who killed them, their predecessors in those apartments, they're the real owners of those people who've been looking for a return of property, they've been sitting there for decades and, and the government and others have been waiting for them to disappear biologically because they're going to die while it's all worked out. We are still suffering from post-Communist sclerosis and the state administration cannot function on the basis of bribery and corruption. That means we have to end this cremation, it's a process of one, it's not despair, and where the sentences are 3 to 10 years and again there's a revision of conversion and privatisation and retroactive laws and at the end of the origin of the assets that must be carried out here, then everything will be clearer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180184	Now, counterpart Zeljko Glasnovic is in front of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns and Independent Representatives Zeljko Glasnović and Zlatko Hasanbegovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180185	Dear colleagues. All the masks are falling, the land of heaven has sworn, you know the rest. Such a practice Croatia? We heard this morning, the pension system crashes, we hear from phrases, independent institutions, rule of law, conflict of interest, yesterday we look at Pantochaka, a performance that's good at the jazz club somewhere in New York, but not exactly for the presidential palace upstairs, only the hat there was a symbol of what's going on up there, who's ruling us, the red hat. What about the IRS? One billion kuna washed away, and the godfather of the writings that stores the tax administration's documentation is the godfather of Mr Milanovic, our president. What is this affair tax administration? Let's get some more on the conflict of interest. What this constitutional judges are doing up there, some have been privatizing and converting, robbed state-owned enterprises, sitting in the Constitutional Court. Some ex-wife of yours... Directors, is this a conflict of interest? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There are people there who worked for KOS, and the files are in Belgrade, we have some people here, secret files in Belgrade, and they ratted out students. DORH, here's what this is about, what the DORH does if there's people sitting here who own themselves state property, worth millions of kunas, titijugends, and I'm talking about conflict of interest. Now the cream on the cake, the Masons. Yes, the largest mass lodge of the Grand Orient lodge came here in '93. Mr. Sarinic brought the same rest to him when Croatia was at war. What's masculinity? I'm alive in a country where masseony is standard procedure. Is this the Pere Cvrzice Society as Mr. Light says, imagine going there to operate on your eyes and see, the last thing you see there if you've given up a secret you see this Mr. Gabric operating on you and that's the last thing you'll see. To whom do Masons swear oaths, to whom do they swear, who is the great architect? So you know that when the French Revolution was launched a little bit about history you had 300, 400 lodges only in Paris and they brought that woman I'm not going to say that word to a prostitute in the Notre Dame cathedral where they were making a big emergency. Then after that, they killed 110,000 Catholics in the province.../incomprehensible/... and today the heirs of that doctrine are sitting here disguised as Democrats, and in fact they are left in the heart of the great communists. They took an oath, you know, buddy Tito we swear to you, and theirs was this, the biggest sacrament was when they entered the Central Committee. What about you, if you give away the secrets of the Mason, you can wake up one morning and open the mailbox and see how your testicles fly over your left shoulder. When we talk about where the retrozacons are about conversion and privatisation? Where's the list of.../incomprehensible/... directors, where are the instructions for movable courts? From community to community, let's see who's got what. That's where people parade every day, and they steal money hard money and give us lectures. And who's sitting here? What's prison, judge investigator, 10 years incarceration for corruption, immediate confiscation of illegally acquired property. We have more morals in federal prison than in Croatian politics and in assembly. Nobody cares about that. In fact, you've got people in prison, he's been smoking weed, and let him steal millions of people from nothing, and they're playing democracy. And he asks Mr. Hrelja why there's no money in the pension system? He knows exactly why that is. But I'd lock these people up, put them in a prison system and just let some of this information go to jail, have their own hierarchy, a prison telegraph that's snitches or just say political pedophiles will only remain pedophiles and then they're boiled like rabbits there. No one would steal anything anymore. But we don't have movable courts, we don't have the right laws, we have a smoke screen of democracy where they.../incomprehensible/... we struggled to take over power, communists and Masons. I think this patron of the Croatian Parliament is St. Joseph, and there are no peasants, I would say we should quickly put on this sign of the Croatian Assembly of Charafciger for some heads, it will come well to some when the loss of congregation seats can operate there in the parking lots and other places, here is the bourum of Mr. Hrelja and your mates, there are no peasants today but I think it's for them here.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180186	The next club of MPs will be that of Croatian sovereigns and independent representatives Zeljko Glasnović and Zlatko Hasanbegovic on behalf of whom the respected representative Hrvoja Zekanovic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180187	Last week we ended the vote in a way that the company Milorad Pupovac left the session because it blackmailed his coalition partner, Andrej Plenkovic, that they would not vote on the Census Law if minorities, of course, were not able to participate in the census in Croatia. What's the point of that? The goal is simple. Indeed, there are barely 25% of Serbs in Vukovar and 34% of Serbs in the list. So there's a 25% real, 34% on the list. Milorad cared deeply about being equal to the number of Serbs again so that he could bring confusion to the Croatian hero city of Vukovar. And just to ask, does Andrej Plenkovic have a majority, whether Mr. Milodar Pupovac will continue to insist on this, or will, or will Milodar Pupovac still give in and perhaps this government will continue to move on. I think it's more likely, though, that it's more likely to give in to Andrej Plenkovic, but we'll see. However, what is the same question, here I also asked him when voting and President Andrey, excuse me, Gordan Jandrokovic. Why was there no Law on the declaration of Vukovar in the place of a special pitet? Why wasn't it? Why wasn't it? Is it perhaps the blackmail of Mr. Pupovec? Is that his blackmail? I don't know. And then, where's the culmination of all this? Because I am loud and clear, and I will repeat that every day, I said it was a Serbian-Croatian trade coalition. That's why there's a vandal attack on my family's house the next morning. My colleagues are silent, the speaker of the assembly is silent, the speaker of the assembly is silent, Minister Bozinovic is silent, Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic is silent. Everybody's quiet. Unremembered vandal attack on the integrity of your fellow representative in the Croatian Parliament. Unremembered. Never in the history of the Croatian Parliament has property, family, family house been attacked in such a way. Never and never let it happen again and don't let it happen again. But when it comes to Milorad Pupovac, when someone hits him with a slice of lemon, we'll say lemon fetish, and then they all get on their backs and the Prime Minister and the opposition and Mr. Maras and everyone else and then they defend Milorad Pupovac. That's not all, it happened a few days ago and incinerated, according to Grandma's property, the furrows, the snooze in Imotsky. Three dolls, two in your arms, one in your arms. And a hell of a problem. A colleague of Taritash, a colleague of Bauk's, is filing criminal charges, raising criminal charges against the masquerade organizers, the masquerade. So we're people, is this society normal? Does anyone in this society know what masquerade is and what message is sent to masquerade? And on the other hand, Andrej Plenkovic, who condemned the act and Gordan Jandroković, who condemned the act, of course also colleague Maras and colleague Mrak Taritaš and colleague Bauk, ignore that in 2012, the Association Pride Zagreb made an educational film where heterosexual couples were burned. And that's okay and there were no criminal charges, but, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, my colleague Maras is talking about burning heterosexual couples' dolls in the arrangement, directing means homosexual associations, and that's true. Anyone who doesn't believe should go to my Facebook and see, the film is publicly available, so the film is publicly available, and you have it on YouTube, it's easy to find. So we have a schizophrenic situation where we have a fake right hand that agrees with the left, and that's what we're going to see for dinner. And all viewers who are watching this today's show I call on them to be awake until the night they will see Plenkovic's HDZ and Maras SDP agreeing on abortion laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180188	Thank you very much. We have two injuries to the Rules of Procedure. The first is the respected representative of Ostojić, please. What did the Rules of Procedure get hurt in?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180189	The Honorable Vice President was injured in Article 238, which means he can't insult other MPs, change their names from Milorad to Milorad, and it's not right to call representatives a socialist, to address them in this way. For this reason, I think that regardless of the freedom of speech here, I must also point out that the issue of the Constitution of protected rights must also be protected and no one can deny the first MPs to do what is required under the law, which is when they consider that a criminal act has been committed to register it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180190	Thank you very much. Uh, I don't think the Rules of Procedure is hurt because nobody's actually offended. This, being a colleague of Zekanovic several times mentioned by his colleague Pupovac, several times rightly, has changed his name a few times, this may be a confusion, may be conscious, may be aware as his fellow Pupovac called him, so we also did not respond, it is not an insult. Uh, I think here's colleague Gordan Maras wouldn't be offended if I didn't know he was Gordan or Goran, for example. Or this one, therefore this one is not an insult. Whether we agree or disagree with someone's exposure is another story. Uh, fellow Maras, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180191	Comrade Reiner, I also think you hurt the same article and 237, but this is a dangerous precedent that you're saying. You are now publicly inviting a colleague of Zekanovic to continue to do so. That he's still talking about a colleague named Milodar, because you won't sanction him. So there's no confusion there is intent. Well, you're not so naive that you think a man's confused, but I recognize the regret that Zekanovic is not a Pupović because he would like sympathy when he attacks him, and on the other hand he doesn't condemn aggression to another fellow MP. So on that side, it seems like it's a lot more authentic than Milodar. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180192	Thank you very much, this one I estimate is not a injured Rules of Procedure for the same reasons. All right, colleague Zekanovic, please, but let's stop it. I said the Rules of Procedure didn't get hurt.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180193	I'd just, I'd apologize, I'd talk a little faster, so instead of Milorad, I told Milorad, so that's one coincidence that might be very interesting given the charity that Milorad gets from Andrej Plenkovic for his news. But here I am, sorry, I'm going to talk a little more carefully and slowly.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180194	Okay. This esteemed colleague, Bacic, is also responsible for the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180195	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I agree that the injured Rules of Procedure of Article 238, and that it is inappropriate for fellow MPs to call the wrong name and do so on purpose. But Mr. Maras is the last one to honor anyone because here he deliberately called a young Europarliamentary candidate on several occasions, deliberately wrongly, a wrong name. Well, then, fellow Maras, you'd do well to remember your performances here to be judged by others.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180196	Thank you very much, let's, let's go with those names.../incomprehensible/... please all pay attention to the fact that we call our colleagues an exact name, if we don't know what people are called, this one because each of us is sensitive of course to what they call it, so this one please let us pay attention to that. I'm running a session for the time being, when you're most of you will be sitting there, and it will certainly be much more order than it is now.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180197	The second is Mr. Željko Glasnović in front of Croatian sovereigns and independent representatives of Mr. Glasnović and Mr. Hasanbegovic, please welcome Mr. Glasnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180198	Dear colleagues, Vice President HS, Mr Sponza, we hear legal anarchy on the ground, as can happen. We've had laws, we've heard that for three decades, there's no implementation mechanism, but we have hundreds of thousands of people in public administration. Training, rerouting them to where they need to be, to inspections, to iron out on the ground. My theme today is about what you've been saying. I've lived outside, I've mentioned it before, there's the notion of illegal construction unknown, you're going to jail or insane. Your mouths are full of human rights, national security, etc., and the Czech Republic needs 10,000 for a referendum, you go to a debate in the assembly, hundreds of us, all ignored, hundreds of thousands. You have some news yesterday from Slovakia, Slovakia has not ratified the agreement this in fact Istanbul Convention, it means we in the Republic of Croatia have here, we have positive discrimination and the Croats have become in their country as a roach, give caste the lowest in India, you have it there, there clean toilets publicly with our hands, it's the lowest caste, we've become in their country. Yesterday there was a committee for this, the Board of Shows and Appeals, a delegation from the Czech Republic came, two hours went by. One member of this minority, I won't say that minority, there sitting, he spoke for an hour and 40 minutes, left 15 minutes for the Czechs and 5 minutes for the others, which means that censorship at work is not only in... The media. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now that means that, that red nobility is networked, we can expect this altohonous province for the Yugoslavs somewhere in Croatia and what we are going to do, run the country so.../incomprehensible/... The main theme today is land again, we have in the River Katarina Ratkovic of Rijeka older women, since '97. For years, it has been a dispute against the city of Rijeka because it is its property. There's ten thousand squares, a few million kunas, he can't win, inherited from his mother. What's going on? And here I am, I gave the address to this memo today, and now that our esteemed vice president is also from Istria, I'm also giving him this memo for reviewing, yes, that these are human rights. The woman's looking for a return of property. [[Intruder: Thank you very much Mr. Glasnović.]] In every country private property is sacred, sacred only in post-Communist countries. If she can't get her land back, she's been slow for, like, 30 years, and this is just one smoke screen of that democracy. You've got a sales contract outside, you've got heirloom paper, you've got a space, you've got air footage, geodetics, you've got a pin number for a card. No one can take it from you, no one can take it from you, it's your private, sacred. What about the rest of Croatia? What about the rest of Croatia? What about this memo that was sent there 30 years ago to DORH and the Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crime, what have they done so far? What about the rest of Croatia? Whose land is sold in Slavonia? I mentioned 10 times the German minority, 200,000 of them were in Croatia, the most valuable minority driven away, driven away, taken 3,000 km2 of land, as if it hadn't been. There are Bene's screams on this one in strength that these people cannot return, they speak Croatian, and they would return and rebuild East Slavonia, but no, their land is sold. That means we've legalized the biggest robbery in the history of these premises and we're playing Democrats, Liberals, Progressives. There's something strange in the air here we have people who were in Catholic youth, ministers, Don Bosch, etc. And they're flying overnight into militant atheists and communists. It's incomprehensible to me, but we're moving on. Well, human rights. This is not of interest to anyone when we say how many such cases are in the city of Zagreb, where people live in other people's apartments, have not been reported in these apartments, live there for half a century, people have been killed or driven away, half a century, have adopted state property, no one. I'm holding in my hand here a list of 10,000 gunmen from Zagreb, 10,000 you're not going to.../incomprehensible/... that one day I'm going to read here it took me maybe a month to do it, but that's not interested in anyone, we're playing Democrats and great progressives here, liberals, and finally another parade of republics where former staffs work at all levels.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180199	Thank you very much for the document, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180200	Now we're going to take 2.3 minutes off, and then there's a discussion of clubs and independent representatives. The first is the honorary colleague Željko Glasnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180201	Here, colleagues and colleagues will now, as has been said, move to a position on behalf of the club and the first on behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns and Independent Representatives Željka Glasović and Zlatko Hasanbegovic will speak to the respected representative Željko Glasović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180202	Dear colleagues and colleagues who remained, again the same question as last night's national security. What are security checks in public services, in the administration from the strategic top to the strategic, tactical level? It is a key issue for Croatia because politics is a human policy. A year ago SOA said, I think, the statement was that until '95. 40 members of the service were discovered, and the service that worked for the enemy. Is that possible? Here, another what about security checks? A simple employer when you go there, of course you'll run this, you'll give your CV, the resume there, the resume, he'll tell you that he'll look for things from your past when you get there, if you're lying, you have no business. What about us? We have a president of the state, was he a member of the SKl Yugoslavia, wasn't he? That's the key question. If he lied about it, what does it say about the moral-ethic code at that greatest strategic level. What are we looking at? We're looking at this release today of the gentleman of this state's attorney, but it's all networked. This means we have an uninterrupted one, a history of conflict of interest from Mr. Bajic further as we can talk about an independent judiciary if all these people are networked. Is that possible? But it's Janus, the god of Janus with two faces, party members and masculinity. We know that very well, it is ignored, and here today sits the heirs of that system. I asked you today, for example. This is why there is no census for the Yugoslavs if this is how they declared themselves in '89. why change this attitude today. They wouldn't have changed their ethnicity so many times if they'd finally turned out to be Belarusians or Moldovans, I don't know anymore, it's also a matter of morality and ethics. You have fake biographies. We also have portals, in the media people who worked for the secret services of other states. I have a man like that in Istria who worked for AIDS. It is the BiH secret secret of this BiH Information and Documentation Agency, it is the neighbouring country by.../incomprehensible/... disformation in a journal in Istria. Where is this man now? I didn't read anything about it that anyone invited him to an informative conversation. And today the party comrades are interpreting the past and present, the law on the investigation of the origin of the property, how we're going to question if everything is networked. Returning money from abroad? One president received two mandates on the subject that he would return the money outside, we saw nothing of it. We've also seen that this president foresaw $50,000 from Australia, it's still in court. We got, what do we got? Economic destruction, of course, a networked judiciary at all levels. And what do we have, for example? We have a file of others in Belgrade. It's a threat to national security. How many people have frustrated their files that are down there now? How can they be in public places if they are a threat to that national security. It's not just the media, it's not just politicians, it's tactical. If someone covers the company, he's.../incomprehensible/... he can't do this public job, he can be in a private company if someone wants him but he has to publish his entire file and CV. If you do it out there, if you're lying, you'll never have a job. Unfortunately, we have a file, 1,000 files, if I have this, for example. for some people who worked outside, working together. Here, just one example here you have one code name, Franco, he volunteered, he was an informer, there's a reliable, there eventually it says he loves women and maybe the money he loved the same. These people are amongst us here there are tens of thousands of them from tactical to strategic level and we can't build a state until there's at least that academic lustration and that we know who these people were.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180203	Thank you very much. This will end with today's work, we will continue on Wednesday 4 March at 9:30 and the first item will be the Final Proposal for the Law amending the Law on maternity and parental support, second reading, P.Z. Number 815. I wish you a pleasant weekend. Session interrupted at 13.57 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180204	4th debate of respected Croatian counterpart Hrvoje Zekanovic on behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns and Independent Representatives Zeljko Glasović and Zlatko Hasanbegovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180205	Croatian sovereigns have been warning of the migrant crisis for years. Some then called it the refugee crisis, today they changed a little rhetoric, so they started calling it the real name, the migrant crisis. It's not about refugees. It's about over. It's just about migrants. Migrants. A year and a half ago, Croatia ratified and signed a global compact, a global contract, a global migration agreement, etc. The Marrakech Agreement. I believe you all remember him. Not all the countries of the world have signed it, many have not. It was not signed by Australia, not signed by the United States, Israel, Hungary, Bulgaria, many European countries did not sign it. However, Croatia signed it. Andrej Plenkovic sent to Marrakesh Minister Bozinovic, who signed the so-called The Marrakech Agreement. And at the time, Andrej Plenkovic smiled like that to the Croatian sovereigns and specifically, to me, at my demonstration against the Marrakek Agreement. He said, that's funny, there is no real danger for Croatia since the migrant crisis. It doesn't exist. It's imaginary. Croatian sovereigns invented it. That story doesn't hold water. And when we called upon the army hundreds of times at Croatian borders to defend sovereignty, the sovereignty of our state, too, Andrej Plenkovic was just shaking his hand and smiling and talking, that's not our problem. Today, however, something has changed in Andrej Plenkovic's policy. What's changed? Has any danger to Croatia changed? Is she smaller or bigger? I would even say that today may be slightly less dangerous because Europe is determined to defend itself at the Greek border. But today because this corresponds to Brussels, today all the owners, European, Brusselsian, have come across the Greek-Turkish border to point out this big problem. And a few years ago, no one. What's the matter? Does Andrej Plenkovic have any new knowledge? Of course not. Of course not. But this time he, as before, only listens to the dictatorship of Brussels. At the time when Brussels does not respond to migration, it will not answer to Andrej Plenkovic, it will not answer to the Croatian government, it will not answer to Croatia either. When they correspond to Brussels, Angela Merkel and the team, migration will also correspond to the Croatian government. For those who do not know, migrations are driven exclusively by economic reasons, but not so much by the reasons that come from broadcasting countries, from countries in sub-Saharan Africa, North Africa, the Middle East and the Middle East, but by the economic reasons of the countries receiving them. So, Germany, France, Italy, they need migrants, they need labour. However, they were a little wrong. These migrants are obviously not the kind of workforce Germany needs. They failed to integrate into society. Germany failed to take advantage of them, and now, okay, we don't need migrants, we will defend the EU decisively at the borders of Greece and Turkey. Just because they saw that labor force didn't suit them. But Croatia is here in a double-loose situation. Because migrants are not the appropriate workforce Germany needs, the Germans will turn to the Croatian workforce. Not only to the Croatian, and to the Ukrainian and Polish and Bulgarian and Romanian and tomorrow to the Macedonians. So, however we turn, Croatia will lose in this story. It will either become a hotspot because neighbouring countries, Slovenia and Hungary have placed a fence on their borders, or the Croats, because Pakistanis, Afghans do not match the Germans, will compensate for the need for labour in Germany and other EU countries. So, Croatian sovereigns were and will be those who point to the necessity of defending the sovereignty of our country with all its attributes.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180206	Now we will stop for a moment and move on to free speech, i.e. making a position on behalf of the club of representatives, and the first on behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns and Independent Representatives Željko Glasnović and Zlatko Hasanbegovic will speak for the esteemed representative Željko Glasnović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180207	Dear colleagues, fellow Members. Climate change, environment, how to solve the problem of this individual responsibility in Croatia, when we have laws, the regulation on the ground we know what it is. I'm going to talk about another topic and it's a parasitic relationship to the state and the mental heritage of that former system, that homo Yugoslav. The Germans have one expression for scheister thieves, frauds, they call it the Germans South Betrugo, so it entered the jargon in Germany on the mental section of the former state where most of the heads were princes of "The Wooden", from state companies to the Central Committee. And it's so much rooted here, imagine you, that someone even peeled Soros... I mean, 400 thousand kunas, they didn't pay taxes, and they stole him too. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And when Soros saw the bill from Croatia, he almost fainted as much as they stole these here. Of course, we have a surface analysis today, we see the network of these former personnel and new enemies on the horizon, and they're all networked, Masons, we all know they were party members, etc. What's going on now? Well, I'd be very interested to know how many heads would come here in the apron of masseuses if they knew how many heads we have here in the Assembly sitting here who are members of this secret society, who burned the party books. We have, at a higher level, the European Court of Human Rights, which is worrying, of 22 judges in the European Court of Human Rights, out of a hundred, actually judges, 22 are related to 7 NGOs, and these associations, they urge immigrants and give them instructions on how to get asylum, and migrants. Judges, 12 of these judges are tied to an open society and yet it is a conflict of interest, and the open society has a state budget annually for about a billion kuna is the state budget of the European, this Soros, just one.../incomprehensible... this open society. 18 of the 22 judges in... The Court of Human Rights has been working on cases initiated by an open society, an independent judiciary, once again a rhetorical issue has worked to a minimum, up to now 88 cases have been investigated regarding human rights initiated by an open society, only an open society without these other associations. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Then what about resolutions? Why are we surprised? The EU resolution, the totalitarian regimes, there is no extreme right, only the extreme left can be easily proved. What do we got here? We have NGOs run by members of the red nobility, their heirs, it's this whole Alphabet soup, GONG,.../incomprehensible/... there was recently one representative in the assembly who gave his brother money, there, it's not a conflict of interest, I'm not sure. In this alphabet soup, of course, there are NGOs doing business, but those at the top of that cream de la cream civil society from the state budget are coming to them 1.5 billion kunas, which is without funds from the EU and these local self-government, who knows what's going on there, and imagine they're attacking the church that runs the soup kitchen, taking care of the homeless, working, and these croaks from these NGOs they haven't wiped out anyone's buttocks and their only job is keeping Croatia on the indictee bench on the international stage. Fascism of Croatia. There are some heads here that are certainly connected to the media with these NGOs,.../incomprehensible/... associations etc. We rebel, recently I read in the paper a cleaning lady handed over this forged CV résumé and we train strictness on these people, and here sits the heads that burned the biographies and there the lie detector would melt if they gave their biographies for the job somewhere. And that's terrible, so we're still having this impact on the mental set of the South Betruga has a head here in life they haven't worked, they've got fake diplomas, they've burned the party books and until we get rid of them we won't have a functional modern state.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180208	Mr. Glasovic will speak on behalf of the Sovereignist and Independent Representatives Glasovic and Hasanbegovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180209	My colleagues and colleagues, here comes my colleague, Day of Women, I wish you all the best, and may the Holy Maturia Protector who protects you from fools, protect you from idiots, men, violent men, psychological terror, I hope that this Holy Maturia will protect us better than so far these Istanbul Conventions. I didn't want to talk about this today is a theme of chemicals, there's everything from agronomics to agronomists to nuclear physicists but I think we have other problems than chemo, of course it's important, we have brain pollution from that former system. Most of these members aren't here today with us doing intellectual terror all the time, but we'll have the last word. Truth is, the truth doesn't have this ideological omen, it's true. Neither victims have this, no one has a monopoly on the victim and history is not, history is not an Olympics of suffering and every victim has his right except for the Croatian victim. Every day we see, every week we open mass graves, we see Zagreb, Zaprešić, now we see Bjelovar, nothing. Who killed those people, who killed those Croats, you don't know anything, just an open mass grave on the portal. Are there any Balkan Egyptians buried there? Imagine if the iroques had been refuted there, if God had not been found there, if it were either a Jew, that would have been all the headlines from the New York Times to Frankfurt Allgemaine Zeitung, but when the Croats were nothing. The media is giving more attention to these other topics, let's say maybe the new adventures of Lucky Luka age more space on television than these topics, and we're talking about truth and catharsis, of which there's nothing. And that, truth be told, there's no ideological omen, that's what I said and we're still being carried out... intellectual terror, the truth is hidden, but for the media, the unspoken truth is worse than lies, and we still don't accept it, we have all the empirical evidence and I'm holding a list of 10,000 gunmen in Zagreb. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Who moved into their apartments? Perhaps we should ask this Mr. President Josipovic. And nothing to anyone. Imagine it happened in Poland. And we keep our mouths shut. We shut up, we play democracy, and we're still de facto in the one-party system. Shut up, intellectual terror, keep quiet about Hitler-Stalja's pact, so everyone has to... The past, no one else. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Who knows the same thing about Ljudevit Jurak who was killed, the forensic scientist here discovered the truth about the pact that killed tens of millions of people, which was killed by 41st. Who knows what Srdjan Cvetkovic, a Serbian historian, entered archives, gave a lecture in Zagreb and found a list of 56 thousand gunmen shot by communist partisans in Belgrade. 25% of these people are under 18. The cemetery, the Germans have a commission on war graves, that's what every civilised state has. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And now, according to the portals of the heiress of this red nobility, this bloody criminal regime, they are now being disturbed by Stipe Javor, who was killed in Sremska Mitrovica in the '30s when this state terror ruled in the old Yugoslavia. Who knows, too, 300 peasants there were then killed, about Schufflay, Milan Schufflay, etc. There's still a culture of fear, a culture of oblivion and this, we forget... It hides here, not only in the Parliament, but in the media, in public space, that this regime of Yugoslav communists under a sickle and hammer, five-pointed, killed more people, it can be proven, you have empirical evidence, but you have Ljotics, Nedicians, Ustashas, Chetniks, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And today we still live in this culture of oblivion, and others impose their opinion on us and we keep silent and watch on the television of Jakovina, Klasic, former UJDI members who are... Students, we have an interpretation of history, we are convinced that people like Mika Špiljak were these, Croatian nationalists. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And nobody asks him what Mike Spiljak was doing when Djorekovic was killed and how much money was stolen in the '90s. A year. And keep quiet about this economic crime and that is why 5% of the land books are properly recorded and this terror continues and is welcomed in "Croatia".
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180210	We are going to a second debate, a respected colleague of Hrvoje Zekanovic on behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns and Independent Representatives Zeljko Glasovic and Zlatko Hasanbegovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180211	About a month and a half ago, I was the first person in HS to talk about the coronary virus. Then some colleagues who were present here today looked at me with a mockery, some from the opposition, some from the ruling, today no one laughs. It's not funny to anyone today. When I went to Marrakesh a year and a half ago to protest against global migration and the global migration compact, and then it was funny, so they made fun of me for being the only Protestant in the world even though I wasn't the only one in the world. No one's funny about migration today. When I talk about the coronary virus, the coronaryvirus, unfortunately, has become the everyday one in Croatia. In some EU countries like us neighbouring Italy is literally a disaster, tanks are on the streets, Giuseppe Conte says the darkest hours in the history of Italy, quoting Winston Churchill, 10,000 patients, over 6,000 dead so far, about 2,000 in Germany, 2,000 in France, 2,000 in Spain. Now, the U.S. that have been immune to the coronary virus so far, here it is today, registered by 1,000 people, we have a national guard in New York, a state of emergency in California, we have 10,000 prisoners released from Iranian prisons, we have 100 escaped prisoners in Italy. And I'm just wondering if we're ready? Is Croatia ready for this challenge? Or perhaps some colleagues and colleagues from the assembly, the Prime Minister of our country will mock this legitimate parliamentary issue of mine. Is Croatia ready? Because this situation could have been predicted. Do we have enough sanity material, do we have enough gloves, disinfectants, mask, do we have enough respirators? In Italy today there are 1,000 people who should be on the respirator, and they are not because they are gone, is Croatia enough? Is there any? I don't know, and maybe Minister Beros knows, maybe Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic knows and might answer. A brief and clear question, if we happen to have a scenario today in Iran, South Korea, Italy in the same size as our population, do we have enough respirators? So it doesn't turn out tomorrow if we don't have enough of them like most European countries don't have them. Although topics are diametrically opposite, today I must mention another topic. I believe that all viewers know who King Tomislav is, knows who Josip Juraj Strossmayer, Ante Starcevic, Stjepan Radić, Alojsija Stepinac, Franjo Tudjman, everyone knows who they are, they are Croatian giants. And these Croatian giants until the other day had their place on Pantovack in the Croatian President's residence. They don't anymore. The reason was because it was a question of our Croatian president, Croatian President Zoran Milanovic, whether he will return war criminal or simply criminal Josip Broz Tito to Pantovčak or will please his team remove these giants from Pantovac. He made this second. He says it's their place in the museum. I think that the policy he represents is not a place in the museum, but is not a place at all in any public space, anywhere in the world, because in this way, in a small door, try to even it out and put it is a sign of equality between the Croatian giants that I have just listed and one man who deserves his place anywhere is unacceptable. It's just inadmissible. However, Zoran Milanovic, according to his worldview, did not surprise us but did exactly what we expected him to do, he forgot that Croatia also had a history that was famous and that these people deserve their place and places like the Croatian President's residence.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180212	Mr. Željko Glasnović will be the position of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns, its position and the position of Mr. Hasanbegović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180213	Dear colleagues, colleagues who remained. Feld Marshal this Vice President of the Parliament, secretary, we are at a turning point in human history, this is very important what I'm going to say today. You see, three things we can never predict, these are natural disasters, not nature, volcanoes, earthquakes, we can't predict economic collapse and the third, pandemics, but this is dangerous pandemics, why? Because in the last 20 years, we've had three pandemics of coronaryvirus and the distance between these pandemics is shorter and shorter. Now that I'm speaking in Africa, East Asia, thousands of viruses are mutating against, we still don't know what kind of animal this is, let alone what's coming. This came of course, one reason is this sudden urbanization, 200 million people have passed in Southeast Asia from urban centres to, in fact, rurals to urban centres and there, the environment is being destroyed and we see what's going on. The bat carries on to another animal, animals to man. They're incubators, these areas of these viruses. Now we're looking at today, how, what are the global reactions to this COVID-19, one of those coronary viruses. I think an example should all follow Taiwan and when I say, I spoke a term of learned lessons. The army has learned lessons. It's not dealing with the past, it's pure analysts here, from economic collapse, these crises to these pandemics. Global reactions, look at countries like Italy, look at Taiwan. Taiwan following the SARS epidemic immediately began training staff, has logistics planning, meaning involved respirators, procurement and other things. She quickly reacted, an example one, China, in China from Taiwan lives there 1.3 million or works there this one, people from Taiwan. So far from the first occurrence of that virus, we have in Taiwan 45 of these cases and 1 death. In China, you have 82,000 infected at least 3,500 dead at least so far. This explains why they reacted quickly because they had learned lessons and a ready system to face this threat based on lessons learned. Their President Taiwan is an epidemiologist, an epidemiologist, they responded immediately, they sent for training, they planned, and here they immediately established a health care command center to deal with these crises, they responded immediately when they immediately saw an unknown inflammation in China, the lungs, immediately reacting there things were simple. There they set up a database, an analysis, they tied the health systems to customs and immigration, they know who's coming, who's leaving, they have standard procedures there, if one kid's sick, the class closes down, if two kids are sick from that virus, the school closes. Simple stuff. And why the learned lesson? Every normal state in all fields of science to retirement, today we're talking about retirement has learned lessons, what we learned from the former system, almost absolutely nothing. We repeat the same problems because we haven't made a systematic analysis as in an army that has 7 battlefield systems, we repeat the same mistakes, I would like to commend our healthcare professionals who have done a very good job so far, of course it depends on the personal responsibility of individuals, citizens. They were also like Taiwanns informing people not to spread panic, but this is just one kind of virus that will repeat itself again in another form. These viruses mutate, which is the worst not only that but bacteria mutate and today 27% of these bacteria are resistant to these standard antibiotics. When it climbs to 40%, we will have an even bigger health crisis, but as we patients will see, unfortunately there is no vaccine for this disease yet, when this vaccine is developed we do not know, and I would like to first develop in Croatia and all post-Communist countries a vaccine that will deal with common sense and that people are vaccinated for the truth, and not against the truth, then we will not repeat the same mistakes that we have repeated so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180214	Dear colleagues, we are now done with this work and we will now move on to the club's point of view. So far, 4 clubs and 5 clubs have reported. Six, he's already got six clubs. So it's going to take us about 30 minutes, and then we're going to start with a united debate about a set of economic laws, so now I'm asking you and you're going back to the same positions that you're sitting in right now and after that. We are starting now with debate, those who do not want to be here, please leave their seats, the first is the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns and Independent Representatives Zeljko Glasnović and Zlatko Hasanbegovic, a respected colleague of Hrvoje Zekanovic, please. Comrades and colleagues, please, those who do not wish to be in the hall to leave the hall, those who remain here, to allow and allow the representative to speak, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180215	Dear President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here, as we have all heard many times these days, Croatia has faced one of the biggest crises in its recent history, however, it is not only the Croatian crisis, it is the global crisis, the crisis of humanity. Here I have to say that even a few weeks ago, and even months ago, I warned the institutions that something was going on, that something was going on behind the hill, that we had a new infection, a new disease coming from China, but here, my colleagues with a mockery looked at me, made fun of me, and they pretended that nothing was happening. Unfortunately, I'll say unfortunately, I was right. Here it is crucial to say that today we can see how important sovereignty really is, how important is the sovereignty of every country. It is today that we see that all those stories about European brotherhood and unity, about European unity, about European solidarity, actually fall into another plan, and there is nothing of them. It is only today that we see how important it is that every country is self-sufficient. It means how important it is that every country can take care of itself. However, if our Croatia is truly sovereign, if Croatia is truly self-sufficient, if Croatia can take care of itself, we will see it in the next period. Unfortunately, I have to say, I have to say, unfortunately, everything that actually could, the one who wanted it, could have seen it, today it's actually showing up in the worst way. So, for years, Croatia has been slowly but surely giving up production, destroying its agriculture systematically, leaving itself no capital industrial branch, and today when the situation is as it is, when the borders are finally closed and every country defends itself not at the borders of the EU, but at the borders of its country, we can only see today how much we were able to react before and how much we could actually do at one point so that what is happening today is not happening. However, it was more important to believe in some supremacy, to believe in the EU, to believe in some kind of community of which there is nothing, but to believe, means to your strength and trust in your strength. I hope that despite the fact that the Croatian authorities did not recognize what I am talking about, the Croatian people will still be strong enough to resist this global disaster they face. So here we have a situation that a little virus that I have to say is coban, cost globalism, cost globalisation, and this is the end of the global society as we knew it. Or maybe not, perhaps after all this, someone decides and says that we were not global enough, since from the centre of power, from Brussels and Washington did not manage well enough countries like Croatia, let's now tighten that belt even more and hold on to these countries as much as possible. So today we have globalisation against which, of course, Croatian sovereigns have often spoken and pointed to its harmfulness, on one of the greatest tests ever. And we'll see after this if there are any concrete authorities in Croatia as well as in other countries that are, for example. EU members, come to their senses that national sovereignty is important, because today I will repeat, we see that the borders of the defence or the state defend themselves at their borders, that all the superstructures that exist in the world are not working today. As far as migration is concerned, here we can see that migration has stopped, and they have ceased with the movement of feathers. At the moment of Mrs. Devereaux's death. Merkel said we no longer want migrants in the EU, migrants simply stood at the border between Greece and Turkey, in other words, all the time lacked political will to stop the problem of migration. And today in the Republic of Croatia we see that the lack of political will, to make the Republic of Croatia self-sufficient, has caused the Republic of Croatia to suffer today from tomorrow. However, I would end this speech with one optimism, the Croatian people are a tough people, they have survived many difficult periods, and they will survive this period.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180216	It is now up to the respected counterpart Hrvoje Zekanovic, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns and Independent Representatives Zeljko Glasovic and Zlatko Hasanbegovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180217	The esteemed speaker of the assembly, respected colleagues and colleagues, would first at first express sincere condolences for the families of the dead girls, would also express solidarity to all those affected by this earthquake, or to those to whom this earthquake has caused any damage, whether material or by the meaning of human health. The Zagrebers have shown themselves very solid among themselves, now it is the turn of the state, now it is the whole of Croatia to help the City of Zagreb and not only the formal assistance, declarative assistance, help from the pay phone, but the real help. And we're waiting for that. And the Zagrebers are waiting for it, and here we are, I'm sure we'll all make that help happen as soon as possible, that all the 100-thousands of Zagreb who are not in a position to be in their home, return as soon as possible and that Zagreb will be as beautiful façades as it was before. We're in one very difficult time, one special time, and unfortunately I think after this pandemic is over, that global epidemic measures time, in time before and after the crown. As we have time before Christ, the time after Christ, unfortunately I think time will be measured before this pandemic and after the pandemic. However, this is exactly the kind of time for community, when there is no room for personal interests, there is no room for politics but for joint management of the system, for showing that true community to the well-being of the Croatian man, for the benefit of the Croatian state. I'm going to say here a very nice example of that community, and that was since '91. year and part of '92. the year Croatia was attacked by Serbs and when the Croatian government was ruled by national unity, the government of Franjo Gregoric at the time of Franjo Tudjman. At that time, the government realized that all must be together, regardless of color, and that in this very great tribulation, a very great danger must be held together. We have done something in Croatia, I will say it differently, we have all brought together a law that is one body that has no electoral legitimacy, and it is called the Civil Protection Staff, we have given it the opportunity to manage the system and there is no more opposition to ask. The centre of civil protection, Minister Bozinovic, partly Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, is actually now deciding on life and death, and community is being sought. So I'm for that true union and let's copy the model that was '91. For years, let's copy it. So when countries are threatened by either military or any other global disaster or such an epidemic as we have today, then governments of national unity or national unity are created whatever. And now it's time for that, let's do it that way. And anyone who doesn't want to work that way, and wants to have a climate of opposition on every move, and there are good moves, and there are fewer good moves in this very difficult situation, is what the government simply can't expect right now or we'll work together or be prepared to criticise. On the other hand, let's take all together and responsibility for the system, we all have electoral legitimacy, let's take responsibility for the Croatians in our country tomorrow. I'd mention another problem here, his colleagues mentioned him, but I'll be here in a minute to try to sum him up, and it's very important, it's very big. The Civil Protection Staff's decision prohibits trade in all Croatian markets. There is a smaller possibility of transmission of the virus or a smaller possibility of contagion in the markets than in the malls, all the epidemiologists say. Most, and I will say almost all EU countries have not made it impossible to work on markets. Why is this a problem? Because hundreds and hundreds of Croatian food producers today have no place to place their products, we have an absurd situation for the colder in Zagreb to work, to drive import goods sold in Croatian shopping centres, while Croatian producers are unable to place their products because the Green Market is closed when and all other markets. We're going to have a failure of this sector if we don't respond immediately. I think the markets have to open up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180218	Thank you. Representative Glasovic will present the position of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns and Independent Representatives Zeljko Glasovic and Zlatko Hasanbegovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180219	Dear colleagues, Vice President of the Parliament. We heard again this morning, the debate, the law of this one, but again I'll repeat myself last week, first we have to stop this pandemic. No one knows how long it'll take. This is a global epidemic, we all know about the global economy what happened now in Canada. A million people asked last week for just unemployment benefits, a million people in a week. We're all in the same boat, and we love it, whether we like it or not. This is a test of responsibility, of humanity for all of us and above all, of the rule of law. Yesterday there was a discussion of cell phone surveillance this, we saw in the former state what was everywhere you had two snitches in every major building, everyone was working from cabbies, the cells were we know who, if I say UDBA will iron me again, that's how it was. You had sports clubs, why this country had more political prisoners per capital than any country. We don't have to go back to that, but we have to ask ourselves now about the law, you have public shame it's popular in China, you post the names of those birdies that were ironing there, there's been some black wine and ironing Thompson's songs, maybe some other from.../incomprehensible/... to Ovcara, and I don't know, post names. We now have the swindlers of the princes of the shivering will appear who in the war, they were at war, not everyone in the war were heroes. Some come out after the rain, people come in today, people go around, shingles cheaters, dressed uniforms of the red cross enter apartments, what about these people, who's being punished. Now Turkey has closed down, arrested 410 of its ticks for spreading provocative posts, misinformation, that's what Turkey does. In Italy, a violation of self-insulation is now a fine of EUR 3,000. This will all pass, we're part of it, we have to influence it, that these laws are implemented, but we're the salon strategists mostly, on the front line are all the doctors' offices, civil protection, spikes don't cook rice, and we need to help them do the job on the ground, so 2 cops have been nicked, imagine it at this time. What else can I say? How do you help people, these now? We're fine. The pay's secure, we're doing great here. What about small, medium-sized enterprises, all you gentlemen here have in the bank accounts of the party millions of kuna, in special accounts, how it's going to be deployed, you want to put in funds or individual cases where it's the hardest. Maybe the individuals, we want to start there, there are funds being created outside in the diaspora, and I welcome them here from the Croatian National Assembly. How will these gatherings be observed so that what happened in the war, in the war, doesn't happen? They're coming, for example. Some materials come, I remember the 550th uniform comes from Canada, winter uniforms, don't come to the airport and disappear, they're princes of the shivering, they're with us today, I don't see anyone else being closed, punished or publicly embarrassed. This is a global thing, if we're going to talk about economic recovery we have to, we don't know when this is going to end. And who it must be, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, that's what Mr. Bulj was talking about agricultural, of course. And now where is 100 billion kuna for agriculture, where are these fruit warehouses, processing and now we're talking about it, but not politics is priority-setting, why it wasn't all a place so far. What happens now? We need to be careful now that this economic damage is resolved, and you're all to blame for sitting here, the ruling party. 100 billion kunas I repeat agriculture where the results are. I'm not terrorizing people anymore. This is a dangerous epidemic. Why? If you're looking at progress every wave of 100,000 people each is smaller and smaller. The first wave lasted 67 days this last two days, already nearly half a million people were infected. In some countries, 1/5 medical staff. We need to get serious, I know that you're not happy about this here in INI, I know that it's hard for some people here to like it, they prefer that they are, they'd feel better if they were in there in the cube if they all know the spaces, there's before anywhere they met, but there we are, heads up, we'll survive this all, if we survived Vukovar, the Vukovars should be an example, Vukovar, middle Bosnia, a year in the environment. I wish you all the best and your head up and your butt against the wall.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180220	The next statement of the position of distinguished representative Željko Glasnović on behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns, Independent Representatives Zeljko Glasnović and Zlatko Hasanbegovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180221	Dear colleagues, we live in a time of dip fakes, fake news and metal coronary virus, and we have that in the Republic of Croatia here. The crisis is not over yet, we have done damage, some are already calling for the collapse of the Croatian state and an open speech of hatred for the Catholic Church and if we are 80% Catholic and why are we suffering it? It's a minority that terrorizes us, those moral typhoids there appear in the virtual world, there on the nets. We have an example. Some kind of civil courage center. What's that? Is this one of the NGOs that receives a billion and a half kuna from the state budget? Is that one of them? They're bothered by everything that's Catholic. They like to see the church collapse on Palmotic. We got this reporter, I don't see her here, some Bartolovic, 100 devils coming out of her, she's taking money, she's calling the crown, this monster in the Croatian state. I think it writes for "Serbian news" that receives maybe half a million kuna from the state budget. We have Rada Boric, Rada Boric, and she is bothered by the fact that Rada is a doctor worth 20 priests in whom she receives maybe half a million kuna from the state budget. We have Rada Boric, Rada Boric, and she is bothered by the fact that Rada is a doctor worth 20 priests... Shut up, Maras. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] 20 priests. Let's talk about the data. Where were those great civil rights defenders when I lay the disease, wounded in Split, when the halls were full of wounded, and the nuns of the hospital would take care of Mr... Where were they? [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] No, that's where they let those winds in the cafes in Zagreb, they didn't do anything. General cuisine, 1000 meals Caritas, 1000 meals, all, almost all home for homeless Catholic church caritative things do from Split to up, it's just a small drop in the sea of everything. All the hospitals in America were built by the Catholic Church, six hundred of them. I can talk like this all night. Let's move on. Germany, the Catholic Church, the largest private employee, half a million employees, sent money to us during the Homeland War. Croatian missionaries in Africa are at risk every day. They're there in Tanzania, in the Congo every day, waiting for them to be executed if they may be victims of cannibalism. Where are your feminists? What they're not going to North Africa, to Magreb, and they're talking about this mutilation of women's sexual organs, about children down there, they're sitting there, and they're blowing our brains out, and they're, they're with us. There are no vaccines against them, nor will there ever be. What... can continue here Croatian Catholic missions that gathered Croats out there, preserved our collective identity, memory and sent millions of dollars here during the war, and now these two-legged, these, these moral tifusars, anti-fake kran. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] They secretly call for the collapse of the Croatian state, don't kid themselves, they're here with us, they're sitting here with us, but they're disguised, they're disguised. And those heads are just waiting for the Croatian state to go to waste and they're playing the Democrats of Cosmopolitans, and you'd prefer some if you were at stake because there you know everything down there and we know what happened to the files, the files of your associates and your predecessors, if half a million had come down to, went to Belgrade to g on... And there, that's where their files are sitting because they've been working for the secret services of another state and we're playing these Democrats. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] When that comes to an end I don't know, I might have suggested, and I forgot colleges, Oxford, Bologna's oldest university in Europe, the Catholic Church. You're fighting a war, today they're fighting a war against civilization and the Republic of Croatia, they hate... Perhaps I would suggest this when, when they come out of other people's apartments where they broke in after half of Zagreb was killed, on a scale down from Dubrovnik down to Flower Square, they live in other people's apartments, they're great. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] These Croats had to pay their synapses, travel, to have children school outside, yet they're doing well, and they've created a debt at the expense of emigrants, for them the moral tifusars of the juzoboids are always good. When they come out again, when the sun passes this, this, they'll come out like rats from the den, then we can take the canader, holy water, holy salt and... It would smoke to the Slovenian border, that would be what I think to Hiroshima, to see a mushroom there to the Austrian border. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] It may be one rescue for these heads, we don't have vaccines, but we have to realize that when someone's saying something, check what they're saying, you have more liars, it's better to have a lie detector than a Kalashnikov and ask who's telling you. Some have been baptized on the fork and are now carrying the cross around their necks here, the medal of St. Benedicta, The act and the free can quote the Holy Scriptures. [[Intruder: Thank you, time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180222	I thank Glasnović, the esteemed. Representative Veljko Kajtazi is the next statement of the position of the Club of Representatives of National Minorities. Here you go. I'm sorry, Agent Kajtazi, representative of Maras's breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180223	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Article 238, I am sorry that people in such a difficult situation at home have to listen to the nonsense spoken by Mr. Glasovic. I'm sorry you're not responding. So he personally attacked Mrs. Bartolovic, Mrs. Rada Boric, the entire profession of our fellow citizens who are currently fighting this monster and I think we should react. So hate speech in the Croatian Parliament should not be tolerated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180224	Time. Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure Mr. Glasnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180225	The hate speech wasn't, the truth hurt, and I know Mr. Maras. He has been vaccinated against the truth, and he confuses people. They know who young Lenin is here. [[/Stain Sanader: Which article?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180226	Well, there was no breach of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Katezi, the esteemed representative, come in. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure esteemed representative Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180228	Your Honor, it's not an injury I'm looking for a break on behalf of the club to consult on this one. Can't I talk about the subject? Then I apologize. Because this is what you said or not, this is hate speech.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180229	We are going to the 3rd debate, the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns and Representatives Zeljko Glasnović and Zlatko Hasanbegovic, a respected colleague of Hrvoje Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180230	Dear President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Is there an EU today? I would dare say that there is no more, because it was the EU's main value of free movement of people and goods. Today, if you wanted to go to any European country, you would have to cross a line that was not long ago. So, there was this scenario that I first felt on my skin when we went to visit the Bleiburg Croatian victims this spring when the Austrians stopped us at the Slovenian-Austrian border. Today, this limit that has not existed, or existed for decades, has once again existed. The European project collapsed as a map tower. Not only have the borders been reintroduced, and they were the most important, so their disappearance was at all the most important for the existence of the EU, but European solidarity has also disappeared. Here, we hear today from our Prime Minister that the EU will help all EU members with, what, 36 or 38 billion euros in total, the Republic of Croatia will like something more than a billion euros. Just for small comparisons, America, the US Central Bank is helping US federal states with two thousand billion dollars, two thousand to 36 or 38 billion. So, the European project is over here, if he's going to experience catharsis and change, I doubt it. That one selfishness, in fact, of all European countries, has shown itself today in action. This is not about sovereignty or that suddenly the presidents of the government or the presidents of the states became sovereigns, but they simply began to look selfishly at their own interests, not that of the global European interest. Here I also have to ask one question to all those who are watching, and in fact to all the media and the Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic. What was agreed on at a semi-secret meeting between the Prime Minister and the editor of Croatian media, meaning the main media in the Republic of Croatia that took place two weeks or 10 days before the introduction of measures by the civilian headquarters? I don't know what the deal is. What we hear, some news leaks that even the Prime Minister allegedly promised financial aid to the media in view of all the measures or the crisis that has occurred and will happen. Do we have media objectivity today? Well, we never did. The media has always been in the hands of the ruling. But today after a meeting like this, after an open offer, we only now see that we have one autocracy that we no longer have democracy at all, even in the tracks. So, from this place I ask to be told exactly, not to me, but to the Croatian people, which has been agreed, what was the offer on the table by the Prime Minister and how the media behave today according to the meaning of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, will there be any critical view of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and of all the measures that both the Government and the crisis headquarters are taking? I'm not gonna say the measures are bad, but let's watch them critically, let's see if I can be better. We're very lucky that the first infected in the Republic of Croatia didn't happen the way it happened in Italy. If we had a script that was worse than Italian. We're lucky Italy was cannon meat. This is not thanks to any measure of civil headquarters or civil protection headquarters, nor to the measure of the Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, nor to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, except a coincidence that Italy has endured the first and main burden of defending Europe against the coronary epidemic. These are facts that need to be highlighted. And I'm going to point out here and remind myself, on February 5th, I was speaking and warning the Croatian government that there was an epidemic of coronaryvirus, they didn't do anything, they didn't do anything. At the time there were more important elections in the HDZ, only that was said. And interesting, interesting coincidence, let's pull the parallel a little bit. When were the measures introduced? When were they introduced? What day? Right after the HDZ elections ended. It was more important to finish this than to introduce measures in good time, so we protected additional Croatian space.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180231	Representative Zeljko Glasnović will hold a position on behalf of the Croatian Representatives' Club and Independent Representatives Zeljko Glasnović and Zlatko Hasanbegovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180232	Thank you, Mr. Grmoy, Mr. Petrov. Here, this one says, a Chinese proverb that is suitable for us today says this, "A far water won't save a burning house."and that's where we think of the EU. What can we expect from the EU? There is now a debate on the introduction of this stability mechanism, the EU mechanism, the issue of long-term bonds, which some members want, some will not, what will it be? But in the end, one thing is certain, that each member will bear the risk of debt and will have to settle his debts. We have to save ourselves. Now of course, this debate is being held, this package of measures to save the economy. We all know, layman knows, a man with two strokes that we have to save small and medium entrepreneurship. It's the spine of the economy. We all know that, but there's a misunderstanding here. What about tourism? The tenants who took loans to rebuild the facilities, they, they want to pay taxes, and there's no income. How long will that take? We don't know. Will there be subsidies for these people? We know that Turkey, it provides subsidies for flights. A tourist comes in his underpants in Turkey and directs through the supply chain from domestic producers all domestic sales are made, from vegetables to suits. What's going to happen to us, we know because it's obvious there won't be any tourism here, the way things are going. Some countries predict the peak of the crown until June. What happens to us by then, we have to take care of ourselves. Another Chinese proverb that says this, uh, "The dog that barks isn't well-roasted." What does that mean? That means good preparation for us, good performance. How will these economic measures be implemented? How? In the field. We have examples already from China, there's already a crisis, we think, there's still no other wave of infection. Who knows which viruses will come from the east yet. But they've already started mixing some there, there, already the mixers on state subsidies, falsifying records, expenses, etc., only China compared to us has a very easy solution for corruption. That means a wire of eights and a bullet at the Seongsan Stadium. And with us as long as we have, and now this is the time, I must say, we must prepare ourselves for the implementation of this on the ground, these economic measures, when it's voted for them, what will they do, where is the implementation mechanism on the ground? It's an important thing. Now it's time for these, the Ministry of Finance, the tax administration and all other institutions to see how many of these companies are out of one employee. We remember these competitions where they got people for suspicious careers, they got a contest. It's time to see it, now's the time. Today, the same thing was said about bank accounts outside. So is it time for us to see who's got the bank accounts out there, everyone's home now. Whoever has the bank accounts outside, more than 70 grand of this kuna. And now it's time for that fiscal, now we're talking about the fiscal tightening of the belt, but we could have done it all before. I wonder now, is there, is there going to be any revisions at all where these went from subsidies to agriculture and shipbuilding sites? Now hope, two go to jail, the DORH has now prescribed this BOLO for them, those two Dripslavas from the Oilies. It's easy to wave. You know what to do with other people's globs. But state money. How do you spend state money? So the company, if you run the company, it's not constructive, what's going on? It's good if it's your private, but that's where it's been spent, that's where this state's money was thrown, I'd say as a drunk billionaire out there in Las Wages, that's what's got to end it. This and another thing for diaspora, the Croatian diaspora, here, now a consulate has appeared in Perth to collect money from the diaspora, and now diaspora here, 16 billion kunas come to a minimum, but some people have cut them off and the bridges have long burned with the diaspora and again we ask for help from them that she has sent here, 100-thins, 100 million of this EUR, dollars of Australian, Canadian, US for the rescue of the Croatian state in war and pay, and we have at 2.3 how many representatives we have here for the Croats from BiH and the diaspora and again we ask for help from them. Some have no cheeks, I don't know what happened to those in Perth over there, I think he was in SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180233	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180234	Now it is up to the club of representatives of Croatian sovereigns and independent representatives Željko Glasnović and Zlatko Hasanbegovic, Mr Hrvoje Zekanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180235	Today, humanity is faced with one of the greatest crises ever, as all world politicians and world statesmen say, the greatest crisis since World War II, and in an economic sense, some of them compare it and say it is bigger and stronger than World War II because there is no country on the globe of Earth that is not faced with today's crisis, caused by an epidemic of the coronary virus, there is no, so there is no state. The whole world is in crisis. And now I'm interested in whether the Croatian government knew, saw what was going on in China 3.5 months ago or should we say 3 months since the New Year? All the media talked about some virus, they talked about the number of dead, about the number of infected, but no one in Croatia has taken any action, but not only in Croatia, but it is not in Iran, which is extremely affected, nor in Russia, nor in Great Britain, Italy, Spain, France. The entire EU has looked and done nothing to protect itself from this crisis. And now I'm interested or I'm going to ask one question that's logical, or is it that all of the world's statesmen have completely, completely, completely failed globally, or did this crisis just have to happen? Is it possible that Croatia has failed? Possibly. We've done a hundred questions in the world so far, and we haven't responded how we should have reacted. But is it possible that these other countries that I've listed the most developed, state-of-the-art countries in the world were so indolent and indifferent to this crisis that they didn't do anything? I have to admit it's a little bit of a pain in the ass. I get the feeling when I'm looking at this situation today, these numbers, and everything that's going on, it's like someone wanted what's going on today to happen. I don't see the creator of this story as still thinking, and I hope the result of this situation is purely irresponsible, not the concern of the world's statesmen, and maybe it isn't. And I think it's legitimate to ask that question, extremely legitimate that we all ask ourselves. As for the measures proposed by the government that should save us, at least Croatian entrepreneurs, the good measures are most of them, although I have one fantastic play again. We have entrepreneurs who are getting out in front of the cameras and all entrepreneurs are singing praises to the Ministry of Finance, the Croatian Government never measured better, entrepreneurship was saved, but nobody says those measures could have been announced 15 days ago when that first package of measures was and that today they would not have tens of thousands of employees at the Employment Office. And it could have been done that way 15 days ago, and it wasn't done. Why? I would dare say here that there is certainly one shortsightedness of the Croatian government and one extremely poor assessment and no understanding of this moment, definitely that is it. As far as agriculture is concerned, we Croatian sovereigns have always stressed that agriculture is a key portfolio for Croatia, for every country and of course for our country Croatia. And I am sorry to hear that many Croatian farmers today cannot place their products in Croatian centres in Croatian shops because these centres are full of import products. And it's amazing to me that the fact that I heard yesterday from several milk producers that they're going to have to spill milk because they have surpluses that I can't place, and on the other side of the store, they're full of imported milk. It is simply not acceptable, not only now but ever, regardless of what we are in the open market simply Croatia must take care first of all of its manufacturers.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180236	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180237	We are now going to the 4th debate, a respected colleague of Hrvoje Zekanovic on behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns and Independent Representatives Zeljko Glasovic and Zlatko Hasanbegovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180238	The honourable speaker of the assembly, respected colleagues and colleagues of Croatian sovereigns have always represented the view that every Croatian citizen no matter where he is must have the ability to vote. And here, first of all, we're thinking of an electronic vote. By ruling or specifically, I will now say the name and last name Andrej Plenkovic is not for that option, he did not want it, he did not want it, and he does not bother to allow every Croatian, every Croatian to vote no matter where he is. But now it's revealed now that it can be done very quickly and very simply. It's always been the main argument of those who weren't for an electronic vote, but it's traditionally with boxes where you can always make which malversion, those who do and how they know how to do it. Their main argument was that it was technologically difficult and demanding, and now we have in a few days I'll even say in a few hours an e-pass system where 440,000 citizens are so far, so to date, and probably more requested an e-pass and got a pass. Those who didn't have the conditions didn't get it and it worked. So we have shown that in a few days the state can allow every citizen of our country of Croatia to receive a pass through electronic systems or we could allow every citizen to vote from anywhere in the world because this right is guaranteed by the Constitution. He is not guaranteed the right to a pass, the Constitution guarantees him the right to choose and be chosen, and no one takes care of it, or leads, to make sure that it does not happen. So take care not to allow anyone to vote at will. This isn't all. We also have e-school, 320,000 elementary schools, 150,000 high school students, 150,000 students, 50 thousand professors, here I will roughly 650 to 700,000 people today in the e-school system daily communicates and everything works, children get grades or are evaluated, teachers evaluate them and things work. And if we take these with e-passes, we see that the whole country is networked, and we're not talking about e-procuring food now, when today our citizens can and are doing it at all times getting food with the help of electronic systems. We've also got an e-record that's a little bit of an appointment I heard, but let's just say that it works at least partially as far as the courts are concerned. So we have daily millions and millions of electronic documents that are used because they can be used because in this situation it's an estimate that they bring us good. Not only in this situation, and when it comes to voting, when everyone should get the opportunity to vote at any time in any place, then the situation is different. Why is that? Here are the Croatian sovereigns asking questions and asking for this to be introduced. And you're giving an answer whether this is because it's technologically difficult and demanding or it's someone else's cause. There is no reason why this is technologically difficult because they have seen that in just a few days a system has succeeded. But someone doesn't want to, they're trying to make this form, the form of democracy impossible.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180239	Just a little colleague Zekanovic, colleague Glasnović, please don't yell, go outside and have a fight, but don't argue here. Here's my colleague, Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180240	My dear colleague, Glasovic, apparently hit the right topic when my friend, my colleague and Glasovic, reacted. So here you can see this example of how unfair our system really is, how much he doesn't really want that true democracy, but actually the most appropriate situation of the day is for him. So we have a civil protection headquarters of a top body that has no electoral legitimacy, no one voted for these people at the end, but today they really are the masters of life and death in Croatia, they really are, and today in Croatia we have a suspension of democracy, we have a parastructure that manages Croatia, and that true democracy with the help of electronic voting, the government doesn't want.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180241	The next statement is on behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns and Independent Representatives Glasovic and Hasanbegovic, distinguished representative Zeljko Glasovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180242	Dear colleagues who have stayed, all who watch this, if this isn't censorship, because whenever this came from the sovereigns immediately censored on HTV and it's hard for us to come out, we were put in the back of this Sally today as black people on the bus in Alabama in 1950, we're not heard, but here I am now, today to congratulate you on the biggest and this Christian holiday and I would point out that charity and charity are starting at home and we can all find someone because we have salaries of good that we can help individually, these funds are also good but I don't believe that this will always come where these funds need to be and let us find someone ourselves and later we can talk about how we're going to share the extra money. What it's about is the economy, the state budget, self-sustainability. Are these measures of the government self-sustainable? What's this gonna look like? Did we even have a surplus in the budget? The second question, when times were better, of course, they were better two months ago than now, we did tighten the belt to an absolute minimum, it would show the same thing, we could have saved for sure. I would say that this, these measures that have been taken, some things have not covered, I personally asked Mr. Maric, he is not optimistic, which is with the tenants, down at the sea in Croatia, from the north to the south who have invested thousands of euros in reconstruction, the facilities, and no income. How will they get rid of it? Will there be enough funds for them? Who nobody's talking about, our biggest ambassadors out there are athletes, not just football players, it's an honor to them, but football is a game. Boxing, for example. It's a matter of life and death. What about little sports? If we spend 0.6% of the budget on our athletes, and we give 1.5 billion kunas to NGOs that work, absolutely most, every honor to individuals, absolutely nothing, where are we? It's coming, it's gone, the Olympics are gone, it's over. It only comes once in a lifetime, that cycle and those people who have spent their whole lives training, working, trying, who cares about it, when I say no sport is a small sport. No sport is a small sport. For example, shooting, people, funding themselves, let's say those clay pigeons, how much a year, they collect their own money, they expect nothing from the state. I think Mr. Matesha is a little too boastful, and he's fine, he's got a helicopter, he's got a private plane, he can drive, he can drive, he's got enough money and other members of the Rotary Club, and ordinary citizens are where they are. What about Croatian veterans, soldiers? A pathological picture was created that all Croatian defenders were parasites. They're almost 300 grand in labor. What's going to happen to them? We take care of them. What's with, some are dying, the average of 51 years, and some are still, when I said working relationship, and others aren't in retirement time yet, so come these critical years, in the '50s, what's waiting for them? Stress, PTSD, oncological diseases, but some are well, and that black propaganda continues, and we're talking about culture on... They're like saints today. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Maybe there are real heads here, which contribute to the cultural space, and that makes me safe, so it certainly isn't Mr. Frljić and others, if it wants to be financed, it's a product on the open market, you sell yourself, let someone else pay me, not the state. What to say in the end. Mirovina, I said pensions. What about the minimum wage? In Germany, the minimum salary of 1500 euros after these, after the give, is around 1100 euros, it is an absolute minimum. We haven't heard anything from the ruling heads that will be with that EU fund. Will there be a long-term bond? But if that's how it's gonna be, how are they gonna split up? You want to share per capital, per state, per GDP? Where do we belong? How much will Croatia get with 4 million inhabitants, the GDP we have, let's say, one Portugal or Spain. We don't know that, and he was right, Mr. Zekanovic, when he was interrupted, we don't know. Now is the chance for the plan, the EU, Marshall's plan, because Croatia, for example, has an average family with four four children, needs a minimum of 12 thousand kuna to survive. We'll see where it goes. And now it's time to cut, if it wasn't before. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180243	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180244	We are going to a second debate, a respected colleague of Hrvoje Zekanovic on behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns and Independent Representatives Zeljko Glasovic and Zlatko Hasanbegovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180245	Dear President of the Assembly, dear colleagues and colleagues. I have already said several times that the Republic of Croatia has been left for mercy and mercy, that the EU is no longer functioning. Some will say, unfortunately, some like me will just realize that it doesn't work because it doesn't work. So, speaking of economic aid, I have already compared the aid given by the Federal American Bank to its citizens, to its entrepreneurs, amounting to 2,000 billion dollars, compared to what the EU is giving. After a few days' strain, the EU approved a 540 billion-euro aid package. Of these EUR 540 billion, the Republic of Croatia is available EUR 100 billion, of course proportionally. But what's important here is to say, it's not a grant. It's money that the Republic of Croatia, if it takes a piece of that money, will have to pay back. It is a loan, it is a loan that we will receive under the conditions prescribed by the EU. Therefore, it is a temporary EUR 100 billion instrument for the protection of jobs and workers. So, let every country manage as well as it can. We are currently two million infected in the world, and the other day we heard from the civilian headquarters, from the Civil Protection Headquarters that the Republic of Croatia is one of the best in the world, I looked at the Internet and it says that the Republic of Croatia of the 200 countries of the world is 62th, by the number of dead and 59th, respectively, and that in the top third, the worst third, so the Republic of Croatia is not the best. So if we compare ourselves to European countries, we have heard comparisons with Italy and France, but we have not heard comparisons with Slovakia, Russia, Bulgaria, Poland, Albania, Romania, which are better than we and who are better at dealing with this crisis than the Republic of Croatia. It's important to know. Furthermore, when we talk about the measures that are prescribed, we abolished the Holy Masses, they are gone, here in the assembly we gather in one way that is allowed, meaning with one social distance: In Međimurje for the factory, one of the factories that has 1,000 employees, by 300 there are in shift without social distance, I am not against it, I am that factory works. I know several construction sites where there are several hundred workers, I'm not against it either, but I think we have double standards, that in some units of local and regional self-government, there are 10-15 people in the offices, on the other hand, when it comes to, for example. Keep the Holy Mass, it's not allowed. Here's just asking one question to see what's going on. Furthermore, I would like that Civil Protection Staff, which received absolute authority in the Republic of Croatia, regardless of which the Republic of Croatia is a parliamentary democracy, that this Civil Protection Staff here, or Minister Bozinovic, gives a report to HS every week because HS has given him the mandate to do what he does during this one transitional period. I am asking the question here to the Civil Protection Staff, and perhaps also to the Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, let him tell us something about how, with the crisis, the coronary crisis, or this epidemic, the pandemic is worn in India with billions and 300 million inhabitants, and there are not so many infected, in Indonesia, in Pakistan, in Bangladesh, in Nigeria, the figures are extremely low, and there are no measures nor social distance, nor health care measures? So we have one question I'd like to hear about why we don't have a death toll on these countries, or a number of infected as many as it is. in Croatia? Maybe it's the method of identifying those patients, but I'd like to hear that explained. And to compare one Swedish or one Danish model with one Croatian model, these are the questions that citizens want to hear, these are the questions that I have asked here, and I would like to get an answer to these questions. Furthermore, I would like to hear here a comment from perhaps Minister Beros on a scientific study that went out to the New England Journal of Medicine saying that from 211 pregnant women in an American clinic without symptoms were even 33, and they were infected with the coronary virus, which would mean that the general population was infected from 20% to 40%. I don't have time, but these are questions that Croatian citizens need to get an answer to.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180246	Now, Mr Zeljko Glasnovic will hold the positions of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns and Independent Representatives Zeljko Glasnović and Zlatko Hasanbegovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180247	Dear colleagues, colleagues, a little sister-in-law who talks to Mr. Grumey here, well, slowly, just a minute, don't talk to you, you shut up, wait a minute, you shut up, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180248	You hear me begging you...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180249	Shut up, buddy, I didn't talk to you, you got something to say, say something out there.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180250	Stop the time for a moment. Excuse me, Mr. Glasnović, I'm sorry. It's Mr. Glasnović and Mr....
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180251	I can say whatever I want, nothing, slowly, turn back time, someone picked me, you didn't pick me out of Vrgorec and your.../incomprehensible/ As far as we've learned from history, we've learned from history that we haven't learned anything from history, it's not Mr. Maric whether it's an insult to the Croatian people that we're paying 33% of Yugoslavia's former debt of $9 billion, we're still serving it, and our war compensation is $36 billion. [[Please don't argue.]] How much, minimum, that's what you keep quiet about, and when I hear this here we're going round and round and we're all big, solidarity is the key thing. And again, I'm gonna tell you who to listen to the scavengers from down there, Mrs. Lower, up there, taking Hamlet out, and we're never gonna get to the point where whoever's leading our country, here's the unionists and solidarity. He won't cut his salary, and here's a file of one he reminds me of.../incomprehensible/... he wouldn't pay himself, he wouldn't cut his salary, but I was out there, the country that worked doesn't matter which one was known, I was in the union, I know what the union is, and that's this, minimum pay, all rights, legal aid if you need it, overtime work, and today we have what we had in the former state where we didn't run that self-government anarchy, not experts and experts, but red directors. Here's the sport in which the sport in Croatia is 0.6% who ran your handball alliance, who ran your tax administration, billions, billions of kuna washed there. Lord and Mr. Maric here on the tax administration, so who's going to watch that implementation plan? I asked the Minister of Economy, Mr. Horvat, who works there, checking out these security people, says it's none of my business, and whose job it is then. Who controls the casinos, how much money is coming out there, what's the Chief Inspector doing, what's it gonna be? How grey is the economy in Croatia, you have.../incomprehensible/... saving companies, it is in the west standard procedure. But when these companies are saved they return gradually, back to the state as the state has betrayed them. What about Agrokora? We don't know yet. Good thing he said, there's a future uncertain, but if we don't tighten the belt to the end, to the last buckle on the belt and don't all of us here solidarity, let's have a little solidarity. Why don't we just cut the pay of Parliamentarians here? What about the Europarliamentaries, those heads up there and now they're criticising the EU. So it's not the EU's fault, it's not Greece's fault, it's Italy's fault, it's the incompetent leadership, and we're back in the circle, it's the same people running us politics and the economy that worked until the '90s. A year. And that's the problem of the Croatian state. Here, one unionist, here's his entire file, wasn't there on a democratic site of some kind, on a one-party system that collapsed like a failed experiment. And we ignore that, false solidarity. I remember a joke I remembered about a snail and I think the people are looking at us like snails. He's got a house on his back, he's solved a residential snail, he's also eating in someone else's garden, he's solved a diet, we're fine, he's just two-sex, we're not two-sex, he can make love with himself, and that's how you watch these mere stories here solidarity, it's false solidarity. And we spit on the Croats in BiH and we're in a hundred million kuna with these people there and it bothers some people here from the former system and their successors who lived half a century in other people's apartments and now look at the state to repair their damages. Let them repair the damage, everyone has a right roof over their heads. But let's not be hypocrites, if there weren't four choir areas in Croatia we wouldn't be sitting here today, I wouldn't be sitting here today receiving the wages and privileges I have today. That's why I'm hoping everything will be best and it'll be better, we'll get out of this, if we don't learn anything now it's time for DOUDI and these other institutions to check out who owns the state property from SCOY, SUBNOR, I know the minimum of one man, and I'm not going to talk about names now. The butterfly bow, nice and smooth gentleman that lawyer from Zagreb, at least took up two state facilities. And we keep our mouths shut about it and act like Democrats.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180252	Thank you very much for being so specific about the weather.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180253	Here we go, colleagues. Let's take a stand. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns and Independent Representatives Željko Glasnović and Zlatko Hasanbegovic, the first representative is Željko Glasnović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180254	Dear colleagues who stayed and colleagues. We heard this today in the litany of amendments, but free amendments if we don't have a field structure, an organization that's going to do it on the ground. And what, we have some taboo topics, that's what I was talking about before. We still don't have retro laws on conversion and privatisation, no affair splits, someone mentioned, we forgot Agrokor, but every state that executes bail out, saving one company, of course... that when that company gets on its feet, it pays off the relationship, the one agreed in the register of the state. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We don't know what's going on here, it's lost in the fog of history, mammalic roads haven't solved the crime in the IRS, and I can talk all night about it, but the core of the problem is with us. I am today afraid to implement these measures on the ground to save the economy. Why am I afraid of that? Because we inherited the socialist system of financial embezzlement and it's proven so and we're spinning around in circles and nobody mentions it, when you mention it here in the Parliament, in the media, you're somewhere like a pork chop at weddings in Saudi Arabia. And the whole system and personnel, said the General Field Marshal of the Supreme Court, Djuro Sesa, that we inherited the entire system and personnel from the former system, but the doctrines don't interfere. I hope, I'm for constructive criticism, we need to restructure the public administration. We'll see now, it's not a problem that someone raised the price of diapers to 5 kunas, but you have companies that are blocked, phantom companies, and we can't, how will you pay if you don't have a digitalization of taxes, for example, if that's not introduced. So far, we've had four centuries to build a system that will be efficient. I know what I'm talking about because I activated two, three units, some of them had 1,500 people. I know how it works and I know what standard procedures are. It's the first part of this exposure. The second part, when I hear this here, when I hear the word "democracy" in the mainstream media. It kind of sounds like an unnatural fornication to me. Who doesn't have the kind of zoophylia, but what do you say here? You have a consortium of investigative journalists, in fact, that, who put China in 176th place, I mean from 180th state, a state that violates the biggest, worst human rights, it's... I will mention again, which is harvesting an organ that holds minorities in the concentration camps, which closes people, which makes total censorship in media space, the Internet platform, shuts down dissidents. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] When I heard it, it was a great honor for some reporters on the portals, when we heard it in the mainstream media and we bought it from them, now how many, 60 tons of equipment, nothing's said about it. Where are those demonstrations of NGOs? Where are they? The Czechs formed one, there was a demonstration when the president of the monolithic communist state went to the Czech Republic, and with us the total torment of NGOs, people from former personnel, former personnel, why that? And why, you know why it is? Because one word is not to be mentioned and that word is Communism. The Chinese Communist Party rules Croatia. And we have a head that was an integral part of that system here whose files were in Belgrade, and it's not even mentioned, and that's taboo of course, but if we're talking about quarantine, I'm going to mention again, quarantine, and some of them have been quarantined, you have two associations of political prisoners who have been in isolation for months, some of them have been given what insulted by the character and the work of the forest marshal, I haven't been on TV recently, in mainstream media to talk about their experiences, in their quarantine, it means these smoke curtains of democracy, it's just a mere story because we inherited not only structures from the former system but one mental heritage and we still suffer from that, it's a kind of psychosis. Croatia, for example, State, now I'm done. Where you get the blessing of the house, there's a priest and there's a second marshal on the window. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180255	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180256	The next Club of Representatives is that of Croatian sovereigns and independent representatives Željko Glasnović and Zlatko Hasanbegovic on behalf of whom the respected representative of Hrvoja Zekanovic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180257	Thank you very much. Every victim is a victim and every victim deserves a full human and Christian pitet. Today we have a memorial in Jasenovac, and when we talk about that site, and also about every other strategy, I must point out that we need to know the full truth. Today, Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, Parliament MPs Veljko Kajtazi and Milorad Pupovac, leaves and heads of state Zoran Milanovic, leaves the entire Croatian-Serbian-Roman coalition in a hard co-habitation with the president of the state of Zoran Milanovic, of course with social distance measures. And I wish all of them, all those participants of this memorial, would finally start to have a proper attitude about some other strategies, for example, About Skabrnj, about Vukovar or about Bleiburg, about the Bleiburg tragedy, but I'm afraid we'll wait a little longer on that. Today is another big day, today is a historic day for HRT. Today is also a historic day for RTV Serbia. For all those who do not know, today April 22, 2020 We will have the same film on the two TVs, on HRT and on RTV Serbia, on HRT and RTS "Dnevnik Diane Budisavljevic" directed by Dana Budisavljevic. Here, I congratulate HTV on this great day. And I wonder if in a few months, when we mark the Vukovar tragedy or maybe something sooner, when the Bleibur tragedy is mentioned, it might be on the TV Serbian programme "Head down, hands behind your back". Well, I'm afraid not. Today is also another big day, and it is about the first democratic multi-party elections in our country, in Croatia. April 22, 1990. The HDZ won, the Croatian Democratic Union defeated and then defeated the Croatian Communists' Union, the SDP, the successor of the Croatian Union, later changed its name to the Social Democratic Party. Today, April 22, 2020. We're marking 30. from the first democratic elections, from the elections when the Croatian people were loud and clear said that for the sovereign Croatia and said we want the Croatian machine shop on the Croatian shoulder so that we can defend ourselves and defend ourselves, but you said we also want the Croatian wallet in the Croatian pocket. We want the Croatian Kuna. And today, today the HDZ, a different HDZ, is not the HDZ, it wants to introduce the EURo at all costs and forgets what was the historic wish of the Croatian people and the ancient 1990s. I have to point out here that in 1990, Celebrated in my family, celebrated in the Zekanovic family. And it didn't work out for some, so that morning after the democratic elections, someone tried to kill my family. Just as some in this home did not respond when I called the ruling coalition Croatian-Serbian, today and Roma, a trade coalition, and then tried to attack my family house a few weeks ago. But the Croats are used to that stuff. I want everyone, all those who, who have a 1990 memory, to remember those times and how they felt. Let them remember those true desires for sovereignty, for the sovereign Republic and think about whether there is today in the ruling set and in future partners, the SDP, even if it is the desire for true legal sovereignty that we need in these times.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180258	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180259	The next is the distinguished representative Željko Glasnović, on behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns' Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180260	Dear colleagues. All this speculation about this crisis now is something that we know we don't know anything about. We don't know when this is going to end, the economy is collapsing, unemployment at global level, what the European Central Bank is going to do, we don't know, we're still fighting. We have Europe at two speeds, the first speed is south, and the second and third is these northern EU countries Germany, etc. We don't know what's gonna happen. Recently a joint G20 has refused actually creditors have personally rejected the request of the G20 group to help poor countries, we do not know what will happen. What will look like after this business models, what unemployment will be, which GDP decline, we can now guess something, but we don't really know what we can do, what we do first, we need to protect the health of Croats, the citizens of this country, and we need a financial injection of these small and medium-sized enterprises right now because they are the backbone of every economy, in normal countries, they are 80% taxing the state budget and we see how many people work in public administration. Well, look, the unions are rebelling, but if 70 and a few percent of Croatian citizens think they should cut in the public sector, let them cut but of course not with these critical, these institutions. Of course, health care, teachers, etc. I'd talk about something else, it's not about this, but at the same time, now is the time to learn true history, not the one we've been listening to for 50 years and listen to these days. Because history is a branch of science and not said-saying, I think so many lies are written on the jujuportals that the lie detector would fall apart and there spread also nebuloses, I would say, campaign disinformation unrelated to the past, not so recent past. Today, too, we are still looking at the effects of this system, e.g. We're looking at unresolved property-law issues, unsettled land, I don't know who then agricultural land, hundreds of thousands of hectares, etc., these are all the consequences of the former system. Some people, they mention revisionism. What's auditism? Well, everyone, that left, those juonicists took over the jargon as well. The revision is the spine of every science's audit. That means every new discovery is open to interpretation. I wonder, are these cemeterys around Zagreb, Zapresic, is this a history review? It's new evidence of that criminal regime some are defending here. Evidence. That's what I was talking about this morning. I don't want too much of it. The people here at my club, once Grandpa was gone, he was killed by red cameras, his grandmother told him, his grandmother said, "Listen, if anyone asks you about did, say he died in a vein operation in Belgrade." Once the uncle was killed, here in the city schools here in Zagreb, half the students were fatherless and that's them. Yesterday, two forgeries were shown historically on HRT, she had no connection, she was Dnevnik, Miss Budisavljevic, she was not saving those goat children, but the Ustasha government was saving those children and the Catholic Church and that's the historical truth. You have here by Nikica Baric document, history and you are not a historian but some of you were bad doctors and bad psychologists. That's why we are today, we repeat the same mistakes. I'm always for constructive criticism, I'd like to go back to the first beginning of this speech, we should now already form a commission where not only epidemiologists and health professions are involved, these business leaders but also other people, technical sciences, and we are already starting to collect learned lessons and to see what will be at least by the end of this year and to apply it on the ground. I'm just for work, not for nebuloss, for stories, I've offered myself to the Ministry of Defense, I'm at my disposal, I've run three choir areas, I know how the system works, I know what's centralised... What's a performance, I know how to assess the combat preparedness and willingness of certain institutions and let's end this crisis first, then we'll solve this second one, and now it's time to get rid of these nebuloses from the past because we've listened to this Partizan truth long enough. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180261	Thank you. Here's how I announced, break by 14:30, thank you. It's 1:00 P.M.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180262	We're going to another debate. Dear counterpart Hrvoje Zekanovic, on behalf of the Croatian Representatives' Club and Independent Representatives Glasovic and Hasanbegovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180263	We've heard countless times that we're in a major health and economic crisis, and we've all remembered that, and we've heard that we're going to have to do financial cuts, and that neither sport is going to get the money he's been getting, and there's going to be a pay cut for public sector workers who work in the country, even health workers are probably on the wallpaper, and no matter what they're doing, they're going to cut their wages hard because there's no money. But there's some money for it. So some will be given money regardless of the severity of the economic crisis we are in. Now who's this about? I believe you all know who are untouchable, and the untouchable are members of national minorities although I would not generalise, would nevertheless single out the Serbian National Minority and the concrete Serbian National Council, which was on 21 April, the other day by the ruling of the Government of the Republic of Croatia or the Council for National Minorities, receive no less than 43 million kuna. Now let's move on, the Serbian National Council just won that 4.537.000 kuna. It is not disputed that the Serbian National Minority is getting money for some cultural projects, but let's see what it is, or what projects they got the money for. For example, they got it. 100,000 kunas to mark the uprising in Serbs, the uprising in Serbs. Does the Croatian public know what happened in Serbia and what is being marked and who is marking it? That's the first important question. Secondly, 3,600,000 kuna and a little bit more gets an independent Serbian weekly, or Serbian people's news, the Serbian people's news gets. And do you know which texts, which covers come out of that magazine? What's interesting is what came out in the last magazine has a fantastic title that I have to read here "At the time of the epidemic abortion even more inaccessible" and then the author of the article about SNV is disgusted by what, which every woman can't make a free abortion without any education, without advice, without anything at all. And then they call on the platform for reproductive rights, they are appalled and they say, unfortunately, as many as 8 of the 29 approved health institutions cannot carry out an abortion on demand or get information whether it is done at all. And this is now very interesting to me that there are Andrija Plenkovic, who is also for abortion or therefore pro-choise, also here in agreement with the Serbian National Council or with a magazine on the issue. Very interesting. I must stress here that Croatian sovereigns are the only ones who have surrendered to the procedure of the Croatian Parliament of Life Protection Act, of course this law will not see the light of day because the president will not put it. Unfortunately, there are not enough signatures because all a few MPs have signed for the law, with the wave of Croatian sovereignty and almost no one else, no one from HDZ has, of course, signed there. What I still have to mention here is a crazy situation related to schools, another topic, but very interesting, bizarre, that our very good Minister Divjak today says to parents of children who go to kindergarten or who are in preschool education or in classrooms to decide whether to send children to school, so there will be a maximum of 10 children in each class, and the other children will be at home. I really don't know how it can be done. I really don't know what standard teachers or ministers will choose children who will enter the class and who will stay at home and how teachers will do double work, he line teaching afternoons, mornings school or vice versa. So either invite all the kids back to school nicely or conclude the school year if they're exceptional circumstances, they're extraordinary, and in the event of the school program, you can get a little crowded material and things done. And finally, only one interesting thing I have to look here briefly at Mrs. Shuic who corrected the incorrect quote of viewers on Dubrovnik television, so she doesn't have EUR 7 million in assets, but has EUR 5 million in assets.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180264	Dear colleagues and colleagues, here we go. We can sit down and see who needs to sit down and get out and get back to work. ... You can listen to the statement on behalf of the club. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] The first reported for a position on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Sovereigns and Independent Representatives Željko Glasnović and Zlatko Hasanbegovic, and will speak on behalf of the club, respected representative Zeljko Glasovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180265	Dear colleagues and colleagues who stayed. I would warn you here and, of course, the people who are watching this so that we can get rid of one selective amnesia and that memory, is this current crisis all seem to be clouded and we've forgotten everything, all the lessons learned from the Homeland War on. In this crown hysteria we hear the words privacy, human rights violations, democracy, but as we already live in one single totalitarian system at global level, all the basic data of people who have facesbook pages are on Google etc., you have accounts, credit cards, sim cards, Internet banking, people who do intelligence work to you can look at your paperwork... what paper, see your accounts. It's very easy to create someone's profile of false, etc., we forget, this didn't begin now this quarantine, but the violation of these personal fundamental rights to privacy has begun long ago and it continues. You have surveillance cameras. China only bought 349 million surveillance cameras in 2018, some put them in front of apartments, etc. When will he be here? It's already here. You have this facial facial recognition now, you have this technique, you have surveillance cameras reading faces up to 600 meters, it's already coming. I'm curious about what the Croatian police have to do with what database, critical data, that's what I'm interested in? What information do they have? There's talk of apps for smartphones mobile surveillance, that's all that's happened before, it's happening today. Who's on the phone today at HS? Does the State's Attorney's Office know that? Is that a secret, and when are we going to know that information? What is the future for us and for the world? What will it look like in a year until this riddle is solved? Will there be immunological passports for some people to prove that they were either vaccinated or that they were over the crown, that they had immunity? What it's gonna look like, we don't know. But 80% of wars are information that the Croatian state has information? What's he doing with that information that we don't have a functioning state today, we forget it. What about reviewing privatisation and conversion? Bank accounts out there, we'll forget all that. The elections are coming quickly, but after the election, there will be one difficult sobering because we have not yet created one functional state. We're going to play democracy, and we're actually living in a deep, deep-seated state. It can be easily proven, not waved with these papers as a maniac here, it's none of your business. We still live in the deep state of that, we used to have this quarantine, we had people listening in at the post office, go to the post office and ask the people who live there who's been listening to the phones. What about the archives of the SKH microfilms that went to Belgrade? In May of the 1990s she went down, now it's an anniversary, today is the anniversary. Before there was immunological discrimination she was, but only if you were immune to everything, but if you were in the party you were immune to everything, you should just be in the party having a party book. You don't know anything about that. You had cells in sports clubs, comfort cells at every level you had in a haustor of two who were following what was going on, what was going on. Well, actually, the surveillance was bigger than it is now. I've got thousands of files, I'm a maniac with that, I'm waving this thing, I could stick the whole Assembly with these files. Nobody cares about that, and now we're worried about it. Imagine those heads that have violated human rights in the worst way, today great democracies and cosmopolitans are rebelling against the crown of quarantine. Pure hypocrisy. I would only point out today we have these directors killed in Borovo Selo, Bljesak, but I would only mention, today is Legion Day, some died by legionaries, they fought for the Croatian state, there are Croatian generals who came from the legion. Today is their 30.4., here is some name Tomislav Linder, Michael Surovic, Ante Lukotic, died for the Croatian state. How many wounded, missing? We don't know any more thanks to them, either, to these officers who gave their lives to the Croatian state, which we haven't yet... until the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180266	We will now move on as every Wednesday to the club's position, Croatia's Zekanovic representative is first in line on behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns and Independent Representatives Glasović and Hasanbegovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180267	Dear colleagues and colleagues, the Honorable President of the Assembly, the elections for the Croatian Parliament, the parliamentary elections, Croatian sovereigns are for the unity, because the community has no alternative. When I say community, I mean the unity of all sovereign, patriotic and Christian forces, political forces in Croatia, or those politicians who agree to these clear principles. When I talk about elections Croatian sovereigns are ready, no problem, let's go as soon as possible, we've caused elections many times and this time we challenge. But I don't understand how the rulings are going to hold elections in the 11th constituency. Since many countries will not reduce measures to counter the pandemic of the coronary virus, how will people, the Croatian emigration that had to leave either long ago or recently the state because of the bad policies of all possible governments in Croatia, how will these people be able to vote? It doesn't matter where, is it Argentina, is it Brazil, is it Germany, is it Ireland, Spain, France or BiH. How all these people will be able to vote if in their countries there are still measures in place, such as those. Today in Croatia? We see that the Government of the Republic of Croatia intends to reduce measures in Croatia. So this is the question of the Constitutional Court, this is the question of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, this is also the question of the Civil Protection Headquarters. There's a solution, the solution is very simple, and it's an electronic vote. This can be done, to vote with the help of the computer, using mobile phones, e-passes have been introduced in just a few days. Why don't we bring that in? If that's not what we're going to introduce, let's introduce what he's got, for example. Austria, a letter vote, so every Croat wherever he lives, I don't know that Australia, the Shiroki Brijeg or Munchen, should send a letter and vote for his candidate or candidate in these elections. It can be done. So here I doubt regularity. With the fact that I have to comment here on how the elections here will be held no matter what, as well as measures to suppress the coronary virus, only when they ended up in the HDZ party elections. So, you're going to risk absolutely everything. But here I have to mention one very important thing, so what repeating is the mother of knowledge. For all those who are trying to present themselves today as Christian Democrats or Democrats, dear voters do not forget who did not want to introduce the law to protect life in our country, nor the SDP, but neither is HDZ. The law still stands at the bottom and doesn't think of it as the president of the assembly, behind my back, never put it in the process. Also, don't forget who introduced Istanbul, don't forget who introduced the Marrakech Agreement, and when some today try to show themselves as a great patriot and defend the defenders in this case, which is commendable, don't forget that they are the same, and I mean with my head and chin Andrej Plenkovic, but also his friend Zoran Milanovic, the main advocates of Serbia's entry into the EU, unconditionally, unconditionally. So they are the main advocates of Serbia's entry into the EU, without solving an open issue. Finally, one extremely current thing, one extremely current question. We hear that Minister Divjak, a great minister who has done experiments not on rabbits but on our children, intends, deliberately in agreement with Andrej Plenkovic now to send children to schools next week, in part. Oh, my people, close the schools, close the school year. It's simple in 2021 or '20-21. School years can make up for anything. Don't play games now, don't create an illusion of normal condition, let the material shrink a little bit, let's do some rhythms, let's work on Saturdays, let the whole next school year make up for what's missed, there are ways, but don't make a play and bring a part of the kids to school and leave them at home.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180268	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180269	On behalf of Croatian sovereigns and independent representatives of Mr. Glasnović and Mr. Hasanbegovic, Mr. Željko Glasnović will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180270	Dear colleagues, we remember today, of course some would ban the memory and erasure of collective memory and still here we fool people because we haven't reached the core of the problem. Mr. Bull, our problems didn't start in the '90s. It's '45. A year. I will talk soon about a topic that the media have put on a firewall around the truth and before that, we remember the Croats of BiH who stopped the tanks on the prologue, on Kupres, the columns that were headed towards Croatia. We have forgotten these people today; they have been cut off in some mosque down below; we have not forgotten their sacrifice, and the money they used to give is kept silent. We remember the nurses today, it's their week today, and it's easy for some genetic anarchists, to talk to the Nazis about COVID in 19, and they've never put a box on the head of patients who die, whose hands are tied not to rip the respirator out of their mouths. They're just bluffs, assholes, lovers of themselves. I've seen a lot of heads like that around here. We need to tell the truth. Here, this may be the last time you will hear this in the Croatian Parliament, about these victims, you will not hear it from the original eggs, you know that they did not have Easter, so they painted eggs on May 1, I have this list only shot in Zagreb, thousands and thousands of people, it will be published by the Croatian weekly, only the city of Zagreb, only the city of Zagreb without Dalmatia, like, BiH. These people were shot from the beginning of May as soon as the typhoids entered, those who were salting pork in the bathtub, raised chickens in the piano, entered other people's apartments where they killed people, disappeared old Zagreb where the camp canal, immediately began to kill and how those courts worked. This is a list of, of course, the death sentence of the Military Court, a piece of the city of Zagreb, immediately began firing, immediately. This is blocked in the mainstream media and all we're doing is... If we don't remember that, it's a question of not history, of present and where we are today and a lot of you don't have the moral right to sit here and keep quiet about this, I'm not gonna keep quiet about this. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here, the evidence wasn't necessary, the decision was made to hang or shoot on the basis of a free estimate, which means you want someone else's apartment, someone else's wife, here's just some names and theirs. It's from May 12, 1945 to 1946, there, like this, I'm just gonna read women every year. Alma Zamola 23 years old, Nada Dovčeg 24, Marija Slamić 22 years old, Paula Šiber 25 years old, Ankica Tomašić 22 years old, Paulina Horvatić 24, Marija Milić 36 years old, Ankica Paša 22 years old, Marija Vunetić 43 years old, Floria Rabić 29 years old, Ankica Frankić 17 years old, 17 years of communists mine, Marija Iveković 33 years old, Valeria Paradjik 28, Lina Foter is not known to be the name or where he was buried, and you have re-arranged the Croatian cemetery in Mirogoja, you are too big today, Antonija Kozić 36 years old, Renat Berger 47 years old, Ankica Skocković 21 years old, Victoria Buljan 24 years old, Kristina Klimar 40 years old, Zor Grbas 19 years old, Milica Padovan 41 g. 24 years old. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's what you're thinking today. That's where you sit here and keep your mouth shut about it. This is all a big trick, we're ruined by the '90s. the same time you moved to this country and played cosmopolitans and Democrats. I wish we had cleaned you with an iron broom in '95. Sir, we made you an iron broom. There are some such Christians sitting there, and they have made an alliance with... Satanists and keep quiet about it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's all a trick. The cross on the wall, Tito on the window.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180271	The next Club of Representatives is that of Croatian sovereigns and independent representatives Željko Glasnović and Zlatko Hasanbegovic on behalf of whom the respected representative Željko Glasnović will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180272	Thank you, Vice President. I would just point out that the word I used earlier is the Greek word from ancient Greece, the word "idiotes", that means that an idiot is a man who will not engage directly in a democratic process, and every time someone tries to distract me when I'm taking my stand, the people I represent here, then I used that one word, it doesn't apply to the intellectual ability of an individual. So much for that. It ends the coronary crisis soon in some countries, in some countries it has not yet reached its peak, despite all these ringishipil experts on the Internet, etc., in fact no one knows how this will end. We can hope for the best, but before that, the heads of the debate would express their condolences to the families of the dead pilots, and if everyone worked, of course, it's not perfect there as the Ministry of Defense, we'd be at the top because it's the army and always the army, but we must bear in mind that, too, I was in three armies, every exercise had been killed and wounded. One time the sergeant told me, actually, the water commander says in the exercises up to 10% of the losses are allowed. Now after the crown comes sobering, how will Croatia survive, now we are on that wave, we see the government announced the elections in July, what will it look like after the election is called? There are half a million social cases in Croatia. Social cases, half a million, watch out, that's what, 1/4 labour force, 1/4 labour force. How are we gonna fill out the state budget? We have a few incomes, said economist Mr. Maric, of the 122 billion kuna, we have 4,000 employees for a certain time, which is almost 3 times the euro average. And what we did when the IMF warned us not to worry enough about workers, we didn't do anything because the two parties were changing the power here, the two parties. And we're where we've been, somewhere in 2000 and some years. The Peace Fund, how are we gonna fill that out? 16 billion come here from a minimum of Croats outside the country, what's that going to look like now? That's 16 billion that's registered through the CNB, what's it going to be. 1.2 works, 1 retired, it's unsustainable. Outside where the ratio is 4:1, where the population is actually, it's unsustainable. This is an illusion, we have to pull out surgical cuts that are going to hurt very, very badly and I'm afraid that no party that has now ruled here since 2000 has the power to do such a thing. We're being lied to, we just need to read two sources of open information. Here, Financial Time, The Economist and you'll see the front page yesterday, the European zone, the stability of the fall... says he's threatening stability not only of the euro zone, but of the total collapse in the economic output. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And we have a two-speed Europe today. Someone pushed us into the Western Balkans, which pie Croatian voters when we joined the EU that we would be in the Western Balkans, for me the border of Drina Balkana is Drina, not only our mental set but no one asked Croatian voters that no one had asked them for a referendum that was rejected, these last referendums. We have other news, private creditors have rejected the request of G20 of the expensive countries to ease the debt to poor countries. We don't know what's gonna happen in Africa, what's gonna happen in the Far East, in the Middle East. Lebanon is on the verge of hunger and we live in one I would say to the isolated world, I hope better must be but therefore needs guidance, vision and concrete measures and not smoke curtains. Who will invest in a country where laws change every two years and what is the average cycle of business? Ten years, five years? There's no one coming, we need to get our heads out of the hole like an owl and accept what's coming and it needs guidance and vision.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180273	We are going to the 2nd debate, representative of Hrvoje Zekanovic on behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns and Independent Representatives Glasovic and Hasanbegovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180274	Croatian sovereigns are for the unity of all the patriotic Christian sovereign forces, or all the political forces that agree with these clear principles, all the forces. All those who are not for the common people will be punished, the Croatian people will punish them, and this has also proved for the past European elections that those who have not been together have been punished. And the people will again reward those who are for unity, uncompromising unity, not love, not armchairs, to one community, to what the Croatian people want. Anyone who is against community is solely for what is currently happening in Croatian politics, it is exclusively for this political agenda of HDZ and SDP. Both HDZ and SDP alone responds not to create a strong alternative in this part of the political spectrum. For the first time, however, the Croatian people will have the opportunity to vote for a truly patriotic sovereign Christian alternative, and the Croatian people will know how to use it. Today we're going to talk about budget rebalancing. Here, I'm going to have a little prejudge before the debate itself because it is very important that the Croatian public hears this several times. I have pointed out several times from this pay phone that the EU has fallen apart and has really fallen apart. We have re-established borders, everyone looks at themselves, there is no more European solidarity, and the Croatian state has received from the EU to help up to now 0 kuna, 0 kuna. And now I'm calling Mrs. McNally here. Pussy, Mr. Bacic and the others to deny me. The draft budget rebalancing here clearly says, the revenue plan was 18 billion 756 million kuna for 2020, we're talking about foreign aid, donations from entities within the general budget. And now with the rebalancing we have five hundred million kunas less. Not only is the EU not helping us, but it is distracting us. Then when it's the hardest time for us, she's gone, European solidarity's gone, just the question of whether or not she even existed? I'll say with one great certainty, it didn't exist, and now it's exposed. We have now revealed the EU's policy. And I can't wait for that Minister Maric to come to you and let him defend these numbers for us. Let him explain why, at the time of the most severe crisis, the most difficult economic crisis for the Croatian state, which may be worse than the crisis we had in the Homeland War, the EU has not helped our country Croatia but is devoting it. But regardless of these figures and everything, HDZ decided to go to elections and great. Croatian sovereigns and partners are looking forward to it. They can't wait for this quiet coalition of SDP and HDZ to be removed, but the public Croatian-Serbian trade coalition is delicious. They can't wait. But it's very interesting how Mr. Capak, Beros, Mrs. Until a few days ago, Markotic was said to be the bioterrorist who goes out on the street, and he's self-insulated. And yesterday we hear fantastic statements, not to believe, that you can go to the polls if you wear a mask. Is there anyone crazy here, is there amnesia or is he a bioterrorist? So we have taken measures to contain the epidemic with the coronaryvirus after the HDZ elections because these elections were to be completed, and we will conclude with measures at the time when Andrej Plenkovic assesses, regardless of the health situation in the country, that it suits him because he can achieve a good election result. And finally, just 2-3 words about one sector that's in the hands of the HNS, and it's about education. My people, this is what Mrs. The savage does this not even in the headings “believe it or not. ”
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180275	It is now up to Mr. Željko Glasnović to present the views of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns and Representatives of Glasnović and Hasanbegovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180276	Dear colleagues, fellow Members. Mr. Grmoy was talking about political engineering. It was in the old "Yugha", as it is today, there is nothing changing. I would only remind you that today is the holiday of Lady Fatimska who seeks the conversion of former communists, it is never too late, get rid of Belzebub, Astaroth and Lucifer, move on to Christian faith, it is not too late for you. Like this. Instead of dealing with a solution, a solution to the post-Communist system, the post-Communist system, of course, and the post-Coron crisis, to deal with social issues, to deal with analysis of how to fix the system, the remont system, we deal with, better the past. I have to talk about something today because I am a representative because today I am a representative of this electoral unit that is Croats in BiH. Every May in Croatia comes national masochism, the day of national masochism because we are celebrating the occupation of Croatian mass communist crimes, it is not science but only ideology.../incomprehensible/... we are not talking about.../incomprehensible/... Jugenoid. I am sorry now that it has started, now an anti-Croatian hysteria has been launched in BiH by Bosnian radicals, philocomunists, quasi-preachers and, of course, the Serbian Orthodox Church that operates and the spiritual JNA. As short as our memory is, we don't remember anything. So we haven't learned anything from history. I am sorry that the Israeli Embassy also took part in a controversial mass for the Bleiburg victims. I would recommend to an ambassador in Israel, in Sarajevo that we do not deal with the communists of Jewish origin who participated in the communist terror in Europe from 1917 to '39, we do not deal with them, we do not deal with what is happening to Palestinians in Gaza, we do not do this, for example, 2,000 children died in Gaza for the last 10, 20 years, we do not do that. But when we realize they're all innocent victims, all innocent victims need respect and memory for those victims. History is not an Olympics of suffering, no one has a monopoly on that suffering. No crime justifies another crime. This should be a history lesson and we have totally ignored here as Bosniak unitists and philocommunists in BiH, ignoring all EU resolutions seeking the condemnation of all totalitarian regimes including communism that killed more people than any doctrine in Europe, proven. Every one of these people has a name. Until we appreciate the girl who was starved to death to death in eastern Ukraine in '32. The years of the communists and their comrades and the girl in Treblinka who was executed there, there is no catharsis, every victim is a victim. And they forget those Bosniak unitists about '42. Eastern Bosnia, '92. Eastern Bosnia years. Who's to blame? The Bosniak leadership is to blame for the genocide of that people again in '92. years, etocide, because it's all been repeated all over again, they've forgotten. They forgot that they threw flowers of non-tanks that were moving in Stolic towards Croatia and that the Croats were the first to rise there and that there were no Croats of BiH nor would they become the Federation of BiH, nor the current Croatian state in this form. There is no voice of reason, with everything you have in Slovenia 10 Srebrenica minimum. It's forgotten, forgotten. And I'm just gonna say, what Mr. Maras doesn't have, for our cryptocommunists would have just said this, yes, if Mr. Maras hadn't made love only to this Sophia Loren, etc., but he also made love, his first wife was what I know, the girl Pelagia Belusova was 13 years old, she was 13 years old. According to scientific criteria and social criteria of common sense, it is Mr. Maras and other cryptocommunists pure pedophilia. And what does that mean to me? This will all naturally censor what I'm saying to the.../incomprehensible/... media because there's also the censorship of the same government as it was until the '90s. Only in another form, and that means Mr. Maras and you, the other one, who praises the bloody locksmith, that you are actually just pure political pedophiles.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180277	We are now going to apply for a position on behalf of the club of representatives and independent representatives. The first is Mr Zeljko Glasovic, who will speak on behalf of Croatian sovereigns and independent representatives Zeljko Glasovic and Zlatko Hasanbegovic. Here you go, Mr. Glasnovic. Excuse me, please stop the time. Let Mr. Glasnović speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180278	Dear colleagues and colleagues. Shortly after my knowledge comes the end of this session of the Assembly Parliament of the state, of the Croatian Parliament, I wonder only some rhetorical questions, what have we learned from the past, not so long ago? I'd say the only thing we're learning from the past is that we haven't learned anything from the past... the same phrase, the same lesson failed, and we're spinning in circles and moving the ball from one side of the party to the other. But ladies and gentlemen, you've been in power for 30 years, and some have been longer than '45 and you've repeated the same mistakes. The point of politics is to set priorities. Where are the analyses, I would like to see analyses by ministries, by segments, by institutions. For example, critical infrastructure, you have the city of Rijeka, Kopar, the geostrategic position of Croatia, depends not only on Rijeka, Split, where is this railway? That's what we've been talking about for decades, but we built the Shabac-Belgrade track, there was no road, there was no highway, there was no road, there was no road, there was no road, there was no road, there was no road, there was no road, there was no road, there was a Slavonia straight as a pancakes, 50 kilometers, what was it like to Karlovac, the only highway, and now, where is that money from that former state? It's all gone. I asked yesterday how much money was on the pension fund of the Croatian Republic in '90. For years, no one answered me. I asked how much we paid our former South debt, which was $20 billion in '90. Sir? We got 33%. War damages are $36,000 this dollar, etc. And we didn't learn anything from those analyses. We're talking about agriculture, the hydrant system, that I'm not going, the shipyards collapsed like a bucket, 30 billion kuna, that's what I've been doing 10 times over here. Destroyed cadastre, books, documentation, birth certificates from the former system, total jumbus, 5% land books properly recorded, about what caused it? We treat the symptoms and spin around in circles. Here, go to Slavonia, wonder what about the German minority to which he was performed ethno... Class genocide, 3,000 square miles. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Who's asking these people to come back? They have the means. No one. We know who wanted to go back to the '90s. Sir, we know who wanted to come back, it's silent, we have selective amnesia, selective, we have positive discrimination against Croats in this country. The restoration of public administration, so no state in Europe has such a public administration that does not produce anything. Just expenses, look at other countries, we have more judges per captain than China had there 5th century BC. Kr. We have a whole army, we say in the army we have a system where you only have a tail, and there's no teeth, such a beast, imagine that. Rep... And teeth like squirrels, inefficient legal, management, the judiciary are out there somewhere behind... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And Cabo Verde and we switch, saying, "Why is Slavonia empty, for you have driven the Germans away, because it is empty." [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You never called me back. 500 families have more funds that have been evicted from Banovina Croatia, in Brazil 500 families have no... than the nearest town there, Sao Paolo, Brazil, GDP. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Human rights, what human rights, Dee? Who's this attorney general working for? The Croats are disappearing in BiH, they are hit by these Bosniak unitists, philocommunists, militant atheists, and they rule here. You have "South" miniature BiH. That's why you like... BiH,... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] BiH. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This is the mini 'South'. With them you.../incomprehensible/... Where are the anti-corruption laws? Rewrite, you have a Romanian directorate who formed an anti-corruption directorate at the state level to solve, you have the prescribed laws, just... Freedom of the media, what freedom of the media. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It doesn't exist, you have what on HTV not Open, "Closed," you have total censorship like in the former state, I would now from this pay phone orwell's award to HND, the mainstream media, you know Orwell, dystopia, Oceania, for total censorship, and that you've just become abdominals of the former regime, let's be ashamed, you've formed your own ministry of truth, and that's proof this month that you've covered up all the crimes of that regime.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180279	The next statement of view is the distinguished representative of Hrvoje Zekanovic on behalf of him.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180280	Bleiburg became a metaphor, a metaphor of all communist crimes, the crimes of the winner in 1945 against the Croats. Today, when we say Bleiburg, we mean and think of all those who were killed in both the Bleiburg field itself and Dravograd and the cross road that went, which stretched from the Austrian border or from Austria to all the way to Bulgaria. That sounds amazing, but that's right. 100,000 Croats and Croats were killed in the worst revenge in World War II. No nation in World War II experienced fate like the Croats, not one nation. We often know how to separate ourselves from other peoples, so we're the best at this or that, so it seems amazing. Unfortunately, however, we are first on this matter, and I will say the worst. We are the best at the worst thing, and that is revenge that took place against the Croats and Croats in 1945. A real memory took place, the erasure of collective memory of an extremely large sacrifice submitted by the Croatian people. I would quote John Paul II here, who said: “Freedom and truth either live in harmony or individually are infamous. If we don't have harmony, freedom of truth, we won't have either. And what's best is today no one's even trying to say who's to blame for those crimes that happened, who's to blame for revenge. It's nobody's fault. No one answered for the retaliation of the Croats. For hundreds of thousands of people who ended up in pits all over the former Yugoslavia, there is no culprit. And today, unfortunately, there are spiritual heritage and former criminal communist ideologies that still deny what happened, which are still trying in every possible way to challenge the sacrifice of the Croatian people, challenge the tragedy that has taken place. Without true truth, there is no freedom. So it is also very important for this issue that the Croatian state, that the Croatian government is loud and clear at all times, especially in the month of May tell the real truth, which is that the Croatian people were unfortunately killed by the winners in 1945.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180281	The next club of representatives is that of Croatian sovereigns and independent representatives Zeljko Glasnović and Zlatko Hasanbegovic, and will be spoken by the respected representative of Hrvoja Zekanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180282	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian people are for the unity of all the sovereign patriotic forces and forces that agree to the clear universal Christian principles in politics. Croatian sovereigns are for the community and this community has been rewarded twice already, it has been awarded for the European elections with the third best result, and it has also been awarded for presidential elections when candidate Miroslav Škoro has also achieved a great third best, almost identical to what HDZ and SDP have done. How important it is, how important it is that the unity may have been best seen in the Homeland War when our Croatian state was defending itself in the community. If then the Croatian people, if the Croats weren't all together under the same reach, there wouldn't be this magnificent victory that Croatian soldiers and Croatian defenders made and thank them for that. Thank them a thousand times. Today we are also at war, this is one existential war, a war of prosperity, no blood, but people will still die. This is also war for identity, and this is not less important and there are Croatian sovereigns extremely explicit, extremely clear. We are for a clear identity of the Croatian state and Croatian people and we do not want that identity to drown and disappear into the EU and we believe that only with a clear identity, with a clear heritage that we will properly cultivate, we can keep that place on the European political map that we deserve. Here I would also mention one man who marked this mandate extremely in HS, and this is about Slobodan Praljak. It was an event that rocked, I believe all those who think patrioticly, sovereignly, who cherish those Christian principles in life and politics. And his message to us was extremely strong, and it was a message of union. And this way I tell him one more time, thank you. And he would conclude this exhibition with one topic that is extremely important, and here it is related to today, on this day we are celebrating the 100th birthday of St. John Paul II, who has spoken many times about life and its endangerment, and our time has also given a significant warning that reads: “We are facing a huge and dramatic conflict between evil and good, between death and life, between a culture of death and a culture of life, not only before but necessarily in the midst of this conflict. The choice of one of these two cultures depends on the future of mankind." St. John Paul II was extremely clear on the protection of life and listening to his teaching, and I was very pleased that I had given the law on the protection of life as the only representative in HS. Unfortunately, he didn't see the light of day. Will he see him in some future term? I will make sure that the Parliament sees him or that he comes to the debate and is adopted. That's what I fought for, and I'll fight in politics. And I'm sure that effort will be rewarded. All those who are proponents of a hypocritical policy to take the votes of Democrats, Christian Democrats, without fighting for these principles in politics must know that this is a fraud by Croatian voters. Croatian politicians are expected to speak, work and fight for what he represents, rather than conduct one policy here, and formally take the votes of those who can actually say and cheat. Therefore, Croatian sovereigns and their partners the Homeland Movement have just begun and the community has no alternative.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180283	Thank you. And now we move on to the club stand, and after that, I'm setting a break, the break will be by 3:30, and then we'll continue with the next point at 3:30. Now we're going to take a stand on behalf of the clubs. The first club will be the representative of Croatian sovereigns and independent representatives Zeljko Glasnović and Zlatko Hasanbegovic. Here you go. In the name of the club will speak the respected representative of Hrvoje Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180285	Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected vice president of the assembly, respected ministers who are leaving the assembly here today are marking the anniversary of our country's international recognition on January 15, 1992, and no one has actually mentioned today and it has been forgotten that 3 days after the international recognition in a small Dalmatian village of Ervenik, in the hamlet of Sasic, one of the worst crimes in the Homeland War was committed. The whole family was then killed in that village, and the Cengic family, the father Drago, the mother of Nevenka and two underage children are only 11 years old and Goran is only 4 years old. One of the reasons they were killed was also revenge on the state of Croatia for its international recognition, one jealousy. And why am I bringing this up today? I'm talking about the reason the state here has completely failed. It is interesting that all of these, that everyone who committed this crime and convicted naturally in absentia, were not present at the trial, which is Slobodan Kovacevic, Damir Travica, Željko Travica, Veljko Travica, Nebojsa Travica, Vujo Sašić and Vojislav Romić and Boško Kovacevic. Only Damir Travica came to the Croatian judiciary later in 2008, serving 15-year prison sentences, and what is interesting to others is not called an APB. Is it possible? Here I call from this place on the Croatian institutions, I call on Minister Bozinović and Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic when he hears this debate, when he hears what I'm saying now, to finally put out warrants for war criminals who killed 28 years ago, killed an innocent Croatian family. And there's one more thing I'd like to mention. On this day of 1992, in Croatian camps, many Croats today suffered the biggest beatings, and I am talking about Croatian prisoners of war in Serbian concentration camps, of course, in Serbia. It is today that they are beaten more than ever to avenge the Croats, meaning our defenders who have been held captive for international recognition of the Republic of Croatia. However, we see that institutions do not function because we see that there is not really any empathy of the Croatian government according to what has been happening, and I will say another latest proof of how many institutions do not function. In fact, on 21 February 2017, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia made a decision that, within 2 years, a new law called, still, the Law on Health Measures for the exercise of the right to free decision on the birth of children, some will call it the law on abortion, I will talk about the law on the protection of life. Parliament Speaker Mr. Jandrokovic, Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic did not lift his finger for two years to pass the law. It is clear why, because this law exists to them or they would pass some other law that would further liberalise abortions. That Christian, democratic law, they do not want to pass. And that's why they don't respect the Constitutional Court's decision. But now aside from the fact that Andrej Plenkovic is an abortion, which I am against abortion, I would be talking about another thing here. Regardless of the position from which we are performing, I believe that we must all strive that the decisions of the Constitutional Court must be respected and not respected. So, one of the highest bodies in the Croatian state, the Constitutional Court has reached a solution, and Mr. Andrej Plenkovic, Prime Minister, Mr. Jandrokovic, the President of the Croatian Parliament, does not care.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180286	Thank you very much. Thank you and we are now moving to deliver a position on behalf of the club of representatives and independent representatives, meaning club and independent representatives. The first is Mr. Zeljko Glasovic on behalf of Croatian sovereigns and two independent representatives of Mr. Hasanbegovic and Zekanovic. Here you go. We'll stop time. Please, please, please. Please, Mr. Glasovic is waiting, excuse me, Mr. Glasovic is waiting for you to stop talking. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180288	Dear colleagues and colleagues of these comrades and friends, some prefer to be called this one, comrades and friends of today's theme of agriculture, yesterday we heard a litany of data from the Minister of Agriculture, data but you have one proverb that says you have lies, bigger lies you have statistics. We heard that, I think, if I remember well, from 2014 to '20. that this agricultural incentives fee has been increased to 15.7 billion kuna. That means it's more than 100 billion kuna since the '90s, back in '92. when we began to build a Croatian state. What's the situation on the ground, like agricultural policy? What about growing exotic fruits and vegetables? It can be sold immediately. I haven't heard much about it I don't know anything about it, not just waiting for incentives for these other standard crops, wheat, etc., tails. What about the storage and processing centers for fruits and vegetables in eastern Slavonia? What is it, we're following the opening of new markets in the first place. Here, where are the pigs' slaughterhouses? Some places are being raised by pigs, you don't have 50 kilometers around the slaughterhouse. What's going on? New markets. The African plague has killed, and the swine fever of about 40 million was shot off by a pig in China. Vietnam is the 5th in the world to grow pigs for about 6 million. Every good boar is sold there from 300 to 1,000 dollars, what we do about it, and pig farming falls. Rural development, Serbia gave up to 50, 50 hectares of land gave people just to deal with agriculture. What do we do, and whose land do we assign, why is the empty eastern Slavonia? Because we killed 100,000 and drove them away from the Folksdojcher, that's why it's empty,.../incomprehensible/... is a minority, I've never heard it from the mouth of people who represent Croatian peasants. Slovenia pays $45,000 to every man just to deal with agriculture. It's ruled by a demographic monster. Fish farms, technicians make $75,000 in America, agricultural technician, owner of this fish farm up to $150,000. Where do we invest this money and how do we make this performance on the ground? No, we spent 100 billion kuna, someone planted two plums and slipped, it's in a civilized world unimaginable. We don't have any information on this issue, and since that money is being spent, it's just a smoke screen, and I'd say some kind of vaginal manipulation. What we can expect from the greatest, when the biggest agriculturals on agrarian reform when the biggest opposition party praises the collectiveization of Stalinov, who drove 150 million peasants into collectives and killed millions of what was in the head, by smoothing them to death. Yeah, it's SDP, SDP. And what to expect now from HSS, the peasant parties that deal more with this collaboration with former refugees, anarchocomunists, than it is with agriculture, that no one has spoken of it, Mr. Whiteman's last statements, that means that we live in a world like that Animal Farm novel, that when animals of Orwell's novel, when animals take over the farm and have their orders, and one order at the end and pigs are the main ones there, of course, pigs, and when pigs make orders there, they write orders that some animals are more equal than others. I don't even know if this attorney general came forward when it came to this scandalous statement by Mr. Bernardic and Mr. Beljak, that but the wolf's hair changes, and we never have a lot of anarchocommunists here dealing with, they have no idea of agriculture, but they're just calling for a former failed experiment called Yugoslavia that destroyed a total village, the peasants pushed into small apartments of 25 m2 and that's why the village is abandoned, and our party is leading the same policy and the prince's cat radio is spinning in the grave like a sound. Here, I show this front page of Homeland magazine, it says here, we've got a picture of a South-Zoomboid and it's writing that eclipse of the ubiquitous mind.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180289	Thank you very much. The wolf's hair changes, but... Here you go, Mr. Ante Pranic. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] and Zeljko Lenart, I'm sorry. [[Intruder: Lenart, Lenart]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180290	Dear colleagues and colleagues and chairman, here I am...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180291	The next club of representatives is that of Croatian sovereigns and independent representatives Željko Glasnović and Zlatko Hasanbegovic on behalf of whom the respected representative Zeljko Glasnovic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180292	Dear colleagues. The cancer of Croatian society's wounds is shown on a daily basis not only in public but one serious analysis will show that the trombone and ineffectiveness of the legal system is the first threat, the internal threat of the Croatian state. Of course, when it comes to the national security plan, we do an assessment of external and internal threats. We'll see about that. The public already sees, not only by these inscriptions, open sources of information, that this country has become some kind of El Dorado for the princes of the "Drpislava" and we see now, from illegal construction, it's unimaginable out there, in a civilised state that illegal construction or purchase land somewhere, all the documentation is correct, buy land, so I had a case a year ago, invest tens of thousands of francs, euros and you see that this land has already been sold. And these are, of course, the tails of the former system where 5% of the land books are properly recorded. These are the problems of this forced confiscation of property and other of these evils from the former system. For example. We have a selective implementation of EU legislation. As an example again, I mentioned it, seized property. It hasn't been spent yet. It's in theory, but it's still waiting five years for the right law to make the owners of these properties die and that it goes into oblivion. Corruption. We know what's going on with the issue of corruption. What about corruption in the IRS as an example, when we talk about justice where a billion kuna was laundered in a circular fraud. Where Miss Merzel is, etc., now we have a problem in Virovitica and it's dragging on, slow justice is not justice. Speaking of justice, which is a slap of justice, tomorrow is the anniversary of the Cengic family's murder at Ervenik's. From paramilitary Serb formations, so-called Krajina unit, father and mother Cengic were killed and also, 2 underage children, Slobodan, 11 years old, Goran, 4 years old. And what is really raping common sense, where no warrants are prescribed for that killer yet, and we're talking about justice. But this case of the Cengic family that happened in 92, 18.1. exactly 28 years ago today. It's not gonna happen. But that's... The crimes of great Serbian imperialists that the outside world knows absolutely nothing about. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I wonder, then, if so, where Serbian paramilitary formations committed more than 90% of crime and so on. JNA where is 80% of the staff were Serbs, so what is it today, how are we looking at each other today? What about our impotent diplomacy, our academics that this is still being fought out there like some kind of civil war? Not the aggression of a great Serbian imperialism, not fascism, that's a phrasing phrase, that's a great Serbian imperialism that killed between 1912 and 41 hundred thousand people in peace, in peace, proven, proven. Killed in Kosovo, Sandzak, we have this young Lenin that he doesn't care about, Mr. Maras, he tells his stories with a man of minority who was killed by 20,000 Italians that he doesn't care about, tells his stories still, they don't care about these victims of him spikes and humor they care about. And I'd say that justice on the subject of Croatian victims has come down to this, yes, yes, I'll tell you again. Those aren't the victims of some kind of victim, you don't care. Yeah, yeah, you don't talk about it, you don't care about the Cengic family, thousands of victims, okay, okay. Then tell someone else how to floscule, foybe, etc. You don't care. Mr. Dear and that's you South-zomboids still rule under the cover of some kind of liberalism, etc., but that's not what you're interested in. So far we have nothing, nothing, what have you been doing for 20, 30 years, where are your academics telling the truth about the Homeland War? You haven't said anything about it because you think what the right hand in Serbia thinks, you think. You haven't been anywhere, you've kept your chairs today, and you're not interested in historical truth. No, Field Marshal, I've been here in the war, and you've been shitting yourself here, I came here in '92, and you were afraid that the Chetniks from Belgrade would come to you, why you accept Croatian states.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180293	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180294	Good morning, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. We continue with our session and first place is the position of clubs and independent representatives, so today the first is the first in line for Croatian Representatives' Club and Independent Representatives Zeljko Glasnović and Zlatko Hasanbegović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180295	In modern times, we often hear that politicians deny ideology, as they say, ideology is not important, it is not a world view. However, I will ask the question of whether you can live without ideology at all, whether politics can function without ideology. Obviously some can, so we also have an example in HS of people running from club to club regardless of formal, ideological, world-class commitment. Today's society deals with various topics, deals with the topic of Agrokora, Fortnenov, the problem of Oilics, deals with the problem of VAT, employment and these are all important topics, I'm not saying, all these are important topics that affect the standard, quality and lifestyle of people in a system, in a country. However, if we look at European and even global civilization a little bit, we will see that the same thing that is happening in Croatia is similar in Europe, in the EU. To avoid talking about ideology, to avoid talking about culture, tradition, heritage, and when I say, first of all, I mean that Christian culture, heritage, tradition, what Europe used to be. What Europe is, I would like, and tomorrow it will be. To make it Croatia tomorrow, still Croatia. But these topics aren't popular. These topics are like that, avoiding them in public space. However, Croatian sovereigns in this sense are not gray because the world is still, I will say black and white and here we are clear, we are here to express. Ideology is extremely important, extremely important, and I'm going to say that I've been motivated by ideology and worldview on politics, and that I'm recruited in politics, I'm going to say, as a Christian activist. And that ideologies will never give up. And all those who avoid talking about ideology, they have a problem with the fact that ideologies don't have at all, that they don't have a worldview. But the key question is, Can we live without it in today’s world? Well, I don't think so. And then if we want, one true catharsis of society, one progress in Croatian society, Croatia as a truly sovereign state, we can, can this progress and catharsis be based on something that is gray, which is not clear? I'm sure you can't. I am convinced that without a clear worldview and ideology, which has guaranteed us the survival of all these centuries in these places, we cannot go any further. The owners in Croatia today go so far, not only the owners, often the opposition, so it is forbidden to mention II. Holy shit. War, let's not mention it, it's the past. It goes so far that it's become unpopular to talk about the Homeland War. And why did it get unpopular? Because just in the Homeland War, it was one of the most beautiful ways to show him fighting for ideology, fighting for a worldview. These people who fought and died for Croatia's freedom did not die for retirement, due to benefits. They didn't die, they didn't risk their lives so they might get a easier job tomorrow because as defenders they'd have a championship in the competition but risked their lives for ideology, for the sake of the worldview. And today it's not popular. Today we create one but me pale society, a European society that moves completely away from what it really is. Here I must also mention, that all of this is going so far, instead of building a value society, a company of control is being built, and it's becoming our streets, our roads becoming Big Brother. Thousands and thousands, even hundreds of thousands and millions of cameras are being installed around the world today, especially in Western civilization, our EU, in Croatia because someone thinks that with one terrible control where every step can be followed can take a step in society. I'm sure that only by building, building a society of values on clear principles can go forward.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180296	She's the second member of the Voice Club and a respected colleague... Comrade Zekanovic, behave yourself. ... Please sit down and get a warning, what kind of behavior it is. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Well, you're not the head of Parliament here, and you're gonna set the rules, so please sit down there. Please sit in your seat, you get a second warning, I'll take your word for it. ... What's that? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You gave that moral lecture and then you act like a hooligan. Come on, have a seat. You can't get a word in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180298	We will now stop and go to the club's position and the first on behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns' Club and Independent Representatives Željko Glasnović and Zlatko Hasanbegovic will speak for the esteemed representative Željko Glasnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180299	Dear colleagues. Yes, eternal theme, infrastructure. We're talking about the Homeland War, and no one's talking about the former state because there's a response and a solution to the source where military bases were built, let's say bullish, airport, how many billion dollars that cost down there, blown up, five months ago. 92nd, military facilities... d.o.o. For another Tito, etc., billions of dollars. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] 80% of the total value of real estate in the former state was JNA and it is facing our people, there could be no spiritual heirs talking about it, this former system, they couldn't build that or the highway in Eastern Slavonia, but Bar-Belgrade where everyone had to pay for it, and that's really the present reality, and we're talking about infrastructure. That's why Kopar is above the river, etc. But I'd like to talk about another topic. Diaspora theme. Spain passed a law through the Spanish parliament to return Jews who were driven out of Spain in 1492. It already has 6,000 requests for return, books are open, books are open from the 17th century on this land book, people are coming back, and what happens to us? Israel has a return law that, in the 22nd century, there weren't 2% of the Jews in Palestine of 700 thousand, now there are 6, over 6 million. Where are the Croats in that... Of course, they're not here because black propaganda and intentional sabotage are being run against them all the time so that these people don't come back, and we're talking about a demographic monster. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] All countries are concerned about the repatriation of their citizens because all other countries also suffer from demographic problems in Europe, Spain, for example. The average, 1.3 is the average of this birth rate and without it there is no development of the economy, there is nothing. It's the world that it is today. And in Africa, the average age is 19 years, and by 20 years from now, 2 billion people in Africa are going to be sitting in suitcases, they're going to want to come here. Not just them. Did it really take us 30 years to build a new Citizenship Act? How's that in practice? First, a man must translate all of his documents into English, Croatian or any other language, then he must fly there, let's say, if he wants to come to Canada, he has to fly six hours to Toronto, from Vancouver, then send it, has to test in Croatian to do this test, test. Then they send him to Petrinjsk. They've been sending a Blackman from Petrina where he's been waiting for months, and that's, of course, intended sabotage. We know that. Simplicity. All you have to do is make sure your father and mother is a Croat, the story is over. What a language. The law of return. It doesn't exist because it's intended sabotage from the personnel from... regimes. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Canada has set a quota of up to 20 years for 340 thousand migrants. They selectively choose migrants. Who's coming here? It's inevitable because there's also a shortage of professional strength, they'll come. Who's coming here? If we didn't attract all these citizens from the outside, there are 3 million of them, what are we going to do? But no, there is still black propaganda against Croats outside the country. This came to you roman, roman cars, hiring people, came Miksic, paid people 7.5 thousand for the kuna Christmas, 2 centers opened, and such people are not wanted here. We know why. They don't like these ex-humans, these ex-system cameras, that's what the HNS, the Croatian people's shame, the HNS, where they kept 2,000 items in Chile down for citizenship, on purpose not to have these people come here. Then we have Venezuela, etc., not but Croatian, you should love it, not love it, it is the largest business facility in Croatia are Croatian emigrants. It comes at least 16 billion kunas here and another third so, come... I had real estate, but no. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We need this great administration, we have launched a second wave of emigration, we have given half a billion kuna to the Serbian Orthodox Church, and we have not solved the Croats in BiH. We're paying tens of thousands of pensions down there, but there's another "sacological" factor. ‘Sycologically’. Psychological factor. Why won't some of them come back? When they hear their heads like Stazic, Mr. Stazic, Mr. Whiteman and others. So they say, so we're not going back to the former South, and that's where I drew you who you are, that you've never really changed, this mass murderer massacred your heads there, the sickle and the hammer on the pumpkin, you're heirs to that regime. And that's why people won't come back. Simple.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180300	Thank you. My colleague, Maras, has done some damage to the Rules of Procedure. What has the Rules of Procedure been injured in?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180301	He's hurt, I don't know if you've seen, look at the video, show the chairman, so it's a mask... It's a one-man mask. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] a mass murderer from a single movie. [[Please don't yell.]] This is, I mean this is out of everyone, I don't know why you're allowing it or not responding. ... It has nothing to do with any discussions. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] In Parliament or attitudes, these things are being warned, so this is really... [[Intruder Reiner: Col. Glasnović.]] And it takes away the word, I mean the man here accuses fellow agents, shows photos of mass, though, imaginary killers, but you know what he's referring to.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180302	Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. [[Intruder: Here, thank you very much.]] My colleague Lenart is the same. A fellow Glasnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180303	Your Honor, Vice President. Here you go, Art. 238nd colleague Glasnović, is not only insulting us but insulting the entire Croatian people. It is known that his colleague Glasovic fled to Canada and was 30 years in Canada so that he would not have to fight with communists and teams he calls juzomboids or I don't know what he's already thinking. And now, is the mind and the sale of demagogy to Croatian children and with this kind of nonsense offends the MPs in HS. I'm asking you to give him at least a warning, even if it doesn't mean anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180304	Yeah. Neither of you have called on the article either, this Rules of Procedure, and unfortunately, in free speech, you know that all sorts of things are said, many that many would disagree with, but so we have chosen and so we have decided. To have a free speech in which, therefore, it is said, everything and everything, unfortunately sometimes.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180305	On behalf of Croatian Representatives' Club and Independent Representatives Zeljko Glasovic and Zlatko Hasanbegovic, second debate was held. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180306	Dear colleagues and colleagues. Your Honor. Well, I was actually going to talk about other things, I'm going to try a little bit about what I've prepared, but I've got to do a little reference on my colleague Vučetić, who I just listened to who was talking about maniacs or how he's already expressed himself here, so he defended trying to foster children from the same-sex couple if I'm not wrong in Split. I didn't hear Mr. Vučetić say here something contrary to those crazy decisions of the University of Split that in the competition it stimulates people's homosexual commitment in a way that anyone who is gay or who says it's just a statement can get 200 euros a month and that's fine. It is fine, however, Mr. Vučetic will not speak of it of course regardless of which he is background, but he forgot Mr. Vučetić that we have the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and that the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia exists one article. In 62, which he says, marriage is a community of women and men. Point. Basta. Amen. So there is a loud and clear statement of what the Croatian people think about what you're saying, with two-thirds said that marriage is a community exclusively of women and men, and adoption and adoption is regulated exclusively for marriage communities. So in that sense, I'd like you to be more objective or objective, you can't be objective as you speak. Of course, I'm not always, either, I'm not objective, but more objective, so just as you're hitting this conservative part of the conservative world, to hit this liberal a little bit so you can comment, you have a chance today to call a press conference and comment on the crazy decision of the Split University that in the framework of Erasmus competition that anyone who is gay has the right to 200 euros in scholarships at Split University. Why wouldn't anyone who was heterosexual have that? Or why don't we have blondes? Why wouldn't they have blacks or those with long nails or short nails? Why don't we have those with dioptria stimuli? And that's not a question to you, that's fine with you. Is it okay for you to have someone do homosexual orientation, or do their sexual orientation stimulate as a student? So what does that have to do with studying? Absolutely nothing. I wanted to say something today about this latest shift of another, if I am not mistaken, the 14th Minister in the Croatian Government, Mr Kujundzic. So you'd just make a little comparison with Minister Divjak. Minister Divjak, regardless of being responsible for his own negligence, reluctantly, for six and a half million kunas of budget money, remains a minister. And the Prime Minister here in the House defended her regardless of the tax inspection finding that she was double paid for a job she was already doing is still a minister. And as for Mr. Kujundzic, I think this is a thank you because like all ministers in the government of Andrej Plenkovic, he supported the Istanbul Convention. That's thanking him for being loyal. There. He's back. It came back to him that he was not loyal or loyal or that he had trampled on his worldview. The question is whether he got hit or not. But this is very interesting. And finally this key question, if for some reason someone has been removed from the minister's post, and there is some kind of delict, something exists, so how can it be good for the Croatian Parliament? I think the Croatian Parliament is the highest place for the Croatian state, for the Croatian people. And that's one big illogicality to me. But I'm still going to have to conclude here. Minister Divjak remained exclusively because there is a Serbian-Croatian or Croatian-Serbian trade coalition that is dependent on Andrej Plenkovic and his government because she is part of the HNS, and Minister Kujundzic has left only because at this point he does not answer to the Prime Minister because if he were to answer, he would fight for him. Of course, if he's responsible, let him answer for what he's done, let him answer for the property card and for all the other crimes he may have committed.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180307	Dear colleagues and colleagues, first on behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns and Independent Representatives Zeljko Glasnović and Zlatko Hasanbegovic will speak on behalf of the Honorable Representative Željko Glasnović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180308	Dear colleagues, fellow Members, another session is over and we see that the war in Croatia is being fought not only politically but also at the cultural level when we look up Rijeka, the European Capital of Culture, how much, 10 million kunas will cost up those performances, when you look up what these performances are, we would think we are going back to the former South or Sj. Korea. We have a south-Yogo, a choreography where we take part in Partisan, there we have poses of Partisan heroes, they fit in with group exercises, it has the sounds of revolutionary songs, political slogans, landings, you remember what "we are Titini, Tito is ours", on Trisat we have an exhibition of Spanish-civil war, so I would think that we are in the Soviet Union somewhere, in the deepest winter of Stalinistism. Not only that, at the cultural level, we have a hickey against Croatian studies. Some people seem to mind the adjective of “Croatian studies. ” Croatian studies are the best college of social sciences in this country, they are formed, founded in '92. A year in a war with the help of emigrants and emigrants. They are counterweighted to the Faculty of Politicology and the Faculty of Philosophy, which serves most of them today, and today serves as a South-Communist Tumbling, for fools, these people, I don't know a lot of them, not everyone is marinated in that former system and can't get out of that mental set. In the end, it is done half a century, half a century we see it in December last year, the University of Zagreb submitted a request and a rector for Croatian studies to be recognised as a university. Until then, this red tape is a socialist brake that this decision is made in reality, it's intended sabotage, we see, perhaps these people would love some in the cultural space in Croatia if it were called more, yes... be a Yugoslav study and it's intentional sabotage. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's been a long, long month, we don't have any of this, the answer doesn't have any, and I would suggest instead of blocking, blocking and sabotage and that red tape of a socialist who's holding it off as a college, I would suggest to the minister and the government a more important thing. First, I would suggest an academic lustration in colleges, an academic lustration that we see, that the public knows the names, the former and current professors who collaborated until '91. Sir, of course, with former secret services, some cases are known, some are not only ratting out students but selling sex for exams. That, academic lustration, would suggest it and would suggest a review of all the same former and current false academic titles, diploma,... The doctorate because the way things are going, the system that created that cheating culture has never been broken down, he's here today, and if we don't, we're gonna be strong, for another 10 years, we're gonna look like Sj. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Korea and we will all be sitting here, saying those parolees as "we planted grain from the sky, let hungry England and America watch," and until we get rid of these people in colleges, social sciences in Croatia and history, etc., there will be only one failed experiment and there will be a further Budalisation that is also carried out in this House, we could hear it from speakers as Mr Bernardić who called for a collection of '45. Sir, and imagine that someone rose up in Bundestag, Germany, and called, and said that Stazi didn't kill enough people. That's shocking. If we don't rise up and defend ourselves primarily against this cultural Marxism, let civil war not only ring out on a cultural scale.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180309	We are going to another debate, it is a discussion of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns and Independent Representatives Željko Glasnović and Zlatko Hasanbegovic and the esteemed colleague of Hrvoje Zekanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180310	Dear President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. I don't want to panic, but I'm going to ask the Prime Minister, the Minister of Health, are we ready, are we ready for a possible coronary epidemic? So, I believe you all follow what's going on, but some things are simply misrepresented. So today, 24562 people were infected with coronary virus, 493 people died, and only 910. So I'll repeat 25,000 soon. This number doesn't mean anymore, but just seven days ago, the number of patients was 6,000, so four times smaller. It's 25,000 today, and seven days ago it was four times smaller. Trend growth is 15% a day, I'll repeat 15% a day. If you make a diagram of the growth of the sick, and it's made by the epidemiologists, then you'll see that with simple mathematics you come in that the number will double every 20 days. So every 20 days we're gonna have 10 times as many patients. Whether this is the way to continue the course of this disease in the world is not safe, but you are expected to read it on many medical portals that that peak of this disease will only happen somewhere in May or April. So there is a legitimate danger that this severe disease, which has a very high mortality rate of almost 3%, may occur tomorrow in Croatia and Croatia, or that there may be an epidemic of coronary virus in Croatia. And now I'm asking if we're ready for a simple reason. This morning when I was coming here, I wanted to present one of those masks that should be in the pharmacy, so I couldn't find her, the only thing I found was these gloves from that basic medical equipment. So, right now in Croatian pharmacies there are no masks, no masks. I do not want to spread the panic, but I am asking the question of the Minister of Health, I am asking the question of the Prime Minister, or the President of the Government, Andrej Plenkovic, why not, is it possible that we are already at this early stage when the disease did not arrive in Croatia without basic medical assistance to put this disease under control. Is that possible? Furthermore, very important information that 25 to 30% of patients end up on the respirator is currently 7,000 people on respirators in China. How many Croatia has a respirator? This disease isn't that far. It is already in 28 countries today, meaning other than China, Thailand, Singapore, Japan, South Korea, the United States, but it is also in many European countries Germany, France, Italy, Russia, Belgium, Spain, Finland, Sweden, in our neighborhood. So this disease is slowly spreading. Slowly but surely. Trend is clear, from New Year's Eve to today on a daily basis 15% of the growth of the sick. Where's the end I don't know, but I'm just asking if we're ready? One India where there are not so many patients, and the vast country is it has banned the export of medical equipment and gloves and protective masks and Panic procurement of 1,000 respirators, if the disease happens to come to that great country. I'll repeat the question again. Are we ready? Does Croatia have enough respirators? I'll repeat every 4 or almost every third patient ends up on the respirator and do we have tomorrow because there are no masks in Croatian pharmacies as the primary medical aid for this disease? Perhaps I can conclude in a way that this disease is the only thing that won't hit, it won't probably hit the Croatian Parliament, and it won't hit it because it simply doesn't spread around here because colleagues rarely come to the session, so if it comes to the Croatian Parliament there will be a stat, but it wouldn't spread panic, but from this place I ask the Government of the Republic are we ready for a possible coronary epidemic?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180311	The next Club of Representatives is that of Croatian sovereigns and independent representatives Željko Glasnović and Zlatko Hasanbegovic on behalf of whom the respected representative Zeljko Glasnović will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180312	Dear colleagues, Vice President of the Parliament, the constant subject of corruption, we listen here again, we avoid the correct answer. I'm glad Mr. Maric is here, I'm glad he's here, but I wonder sometimes the key question of how to spend taxpayers' money. If politics can set priorities, how does the state separate money for what priorities? We know if there's no recession now we need to put the money aside if there's a recession for the key to these critical things in society. How do you spend taxpayers' money? Recently I saw on television this microcosm as the Croatian state works I see a ruling coalition entering, in fact the ruling coalition of 10 newest Audis coming to a town in southern Croatia. It's just the first round of insurance for the lit rotter. It's just the first round. In Japan, only the prime minister has the right to official protection. Croatia is a picture of the country actually ruling left, right wing of the party these days and their comrades sitting here acting as Democrats and new Titojugindas etc. It's an old story only in new clothes. If we see that it's spent when we say 30 billion was spent on shipbuilding. A failed project, and they're looking for money again, these up in the river, they're looking for money again. Just to lower some of that data to the ground means that every four-member Croatian family has so far paid for it has been peeled, stolen by 5,000 euros. We have agriculture, and agriculture in the former government, I don't know now I haven't seen the data is pure El Dorado for princes of the shivering. We had 100 billion kunas spent. Where are those cows? Where are your processed fruit centers, vegetables where is it? Where are these for storage? Nothing there when we watch where that money is spent, how do you monitor it? So, of course, corruption and three-way state apparatus and institutions are still the biggest threat in the Croatian state after the mental heritage of the communism of the one-party system that puts us all in despair daily. Here's 30 years we haven't had a mechanism for implementing the terrain yet. We are here at the bottom of the European Union, at the bottom of the issue of law enforcement. Every organization that will be a functional organization has 3 elements that it functions effectively to be state-of-the-art, to be effective. It's the first filling, training and equipment. Now that we're looking at medical personnel... they're attacking nurses. Hospital staff's going out. How are they paid? They're going out. We've got the police. That's where they shake hands with economic immigrants. Half of them are infected with HIV. I don't know which other bacteria and baccales and I don't know maybe not the Ebola yet, but they pay five and a half thousand kuna on average. How are you gonna get a professional for that? Educational system. What is the quality of a teacher if their salary is low? Not to mention tax administration, tax administration and how much money we lose every year from bandits who don't pay taxes and have real estate. So recently I read one there has a Viconte there 979 real estate? Well, that's not in... Texas. And what do you do? Is it hard for us to make simple laws? Simple laws, quick implementation. It's hard to form special courts just for business crime and conduct on the ground. Confiscation of the property of all the trees that didn't pay taxes, that they stole. At the end of the day for civil servants, civil servants if he was wrong there and he was wrong in corrupt actions to take property and pound his sentence from 3 to 10 years... Check every origin of the property to see who we have, not after the '90s, until the '90s, let's see. [[You don't understand.]] Of course, it hasn't been implemented yet, that law put in there in the basement and we have to implement all these simple measures we have to implement on the ground if we're going to have an effective state, if we can't all go there to Monaco.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180313	And now we will pass with a little delay, but it is good that we have finished this point I think rather than that we have interrupted it with the presentation of the position of clubs and the first on behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns and Independent Representatives Zeljko Glasnović and Zlatko Hasanbegovic will speak to the esteemed representative Željko Glasnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180314	Dear fellow MPs, Vice President of the Parliament. Key word for discrimination this morning, I think that if we look at how much money is stolen in this country annually, that every resident in this country is discriminated against, not just people with special needs. And that's why we don't have any kindergartens, or good pay for our doctors, etc. This morning I held a press conference downstairs, the key topic was corruption as the most insidious threat that threatens the Republic of Croatia. I also shared one with them... with 16 points how to combat this corruption, I handed it over to committees, institutions from the president to the next. So far, I have not received a single reply from the BUSKOK, PNUSKOK, the State's Attorney's office, and it's just a show of whether this corruption continues. I will now discuss the details, this year the European Public Prosecutor's Office is being established and the office is dealing with the illegal withdrawal of money from the euro funds. What happens when the audit comes? What will be in agriculture, 100 billion kuna, it mentions... I've mentioned it 10 times here. According to some estimates, half the money from public procurement is lost in corruption, corruption. It's a public secret that we have a policy and crime agenda like that. above me is a typical example of a gentleman here, a typical example, now going, a speck of politics and crime, we go from kleptocracy to kleptrocia. According to some estimates, 30 billion kuna is coming out of the country at a minimum. What's the modus operand of those critters, thieves? We deal with grandmothers, we raid the markets down there, we arrest the grandmothers with tobacco, and those megalops are running around, and they're with us today. Let's start with the IRS as an example of a good example of that kleptocrat. We have an example. the head of supervision of the company in the Tax Administration, is it possible that he is making fraud with transfer prices and making embassies for the parent foreign companies that establish companies here and they are thus laundering money because they are not paying taxes but paying taxes outside. De facto Tax Administration has allowed Croatia to become a single tax oasis for foreign companies. What about surveillance for big companies? You have an office for that. Solutions are accepted there without any customs documentation. What about the circular con at the IRS where a billion kuna was laundered? Then he was Prime Minister Milanovic, now the president, there worked the food company had a contract with the one fake company that participated in the circular fraud, and the godfather of the letter was best man from Mr Milanovic. Fictitious services, fictitious companies can speak forever here. What about the land books in Samobor? Where are our peasants? Here Samobor, there in Samobor, land is sold to stock companies below market price, and what happens? Then you d.o.o. Sales to others without competition, selling to other firms, e.g. Dinkel d.o.o. which went bankrupt a long time ago, under the blockade is closing down the company and selling still goes to Tona Atia project etc. They sell it... d.o.o. They build villas and houses in these villas, move in, sell for companies not to pay VAT and actually live in them. It's... a thieving up in Samobor. There's no Mr. White today, I'd ask him that, but he's not here today. All we're talking about is kidnapping in land books, so 5% of the land books in Croatia are properly recorded. It's an open door for a hoax. What's the conclusion of all this? That these institutions haven't made a single strategy for 30 years to combat corruption. This is just a play, this continues, we're not Singapore, and we should be, there's no corruption, there's power, there's ideals, there's a moral consciousness, it's not here. If we keep this up, we're gonna lose more people, and that's why we don't have the money for critical things for this thieving. And the people who are investigating here are... in companies and they're blocked and they fit that crime because they don't have a choice. We have betrayed a nation... working in these companies and this is a disgrace to the Croatian state. .../Speakers speech at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180315	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180316	We are now going to the third exhibition, which is the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns and Independent Representatives Željko Glasnović and Zlatko Hasanbegovic, a respected colleague of Hrvoje Zekanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180317	Every great nation through its history has created great statesmen, warlords, scientists, and spiritual leaders. And that's what happened in the Croatian people. The Croatian people were lucky and Aloyzi Stepinac, the blessed Aloyzi Stepinac. But Alojzius Stepinac, although here we have celebrated him for 60 years since the meaning of his moment of death and 22 years since he was declared blessed, has not yet been declared sacred. And it was not declared for the reason that Patriarch Irinej is but I will also tell Aleksandar Vukic and Nikolic that they urinated with St. Father Pope in the Vatican that he should not be declared sacred, of course with lies. With the lies that he was the Ustasha Vicar, that he defended the Ustasha regime, that he was responsible for the deaths of people in World War II. But who's telling him that? That's what he's told, that's what people who are Chetnik dukes tell him, that's what people who openly glorify the Chetish, fascist movement tell him. I will mention here an event that is interesting, and this is the Metropolitan of Porfirija Peric, who several years ago along with the 10 priests of the same Serbian Orthodox Church sang Momcila Đujic songs, meaning he was magnificent to Chetnica, he was magnificent to the fascist movement, and then we have a situation that these same people who celebrate the fascist movement of one man who was a dam for crimes in World War II, who tried and saved many and Croats and Serbs and Roma from crimes that today could not become sacred, which would mean a lot to the Croatian people. But what's interesting here is that when we talk about Porfirija Peric, the Metropolitan of the Serbian Orthodox Church, what he was doing, he was warned by a journalist, his name is Marko Juric, and instead of the State's Attorney's Office raised the process or investigated what he was singing to Momcila Djujic, and warned him that under that Chetnic slogan, under these songs that the clans and killed Croats throughout Croatia were in Croatia's Vukovar State Attorney's Office initiating proceedings against a journalist who pointed to a major political and social anomaly. How is this company? I don't know. However, about this Croatian-Serbian trade coalition in which the SDSS is something like this. He responds to the persecution of journalists, and he does not answer to the persecution of those who glorify the Chetnik movement. And that's how it is. Here, I must stress another interesting thing about this Croatian-Serbian trade coalition, which also includes HNS, which also includes Mrs Opačić, in which Mr. Opačić is. Sacha has recently been in the SDP, and so is Mr. Souch. Kajtazi, but that's Mr. Kajtazi. Kajtazi these days, so he supports the government of Andrej Plenkovic sharing in Međimurje, here we were just listening about Međimurje, sharing in Međimurje ads to children, says the right man for us Veljko Kajtazi and below Kali Sara, children. And from this point on, I would like to invite the Ombudsman for the children of Helena Pirnat Dragicevic to examine this for a little while. Have him look into what's going on. Can any representative, any child, share any propaganda materials and have children dress up in T-shirts with his face or inscriptions, that with those bags where Veliko Kajtazi writes they walk in Međimurje. Is that how the campaign can work? I don't think so. But I'm going to recapture here, this coalition, or the ruling majority that currently manages Croatia, in a way that has to please everyone, so it's probably going to please Veljak Kitazi here, so Helinka Pirnat Dragicevic won't start the procedure because he'll say it's okay. As well as all that the mayor of the city of Zagreb does, Mr. The band and as well as it's all right to do what Mr. President has done. Sucha and what HNS does because simply this government must survive at all costs.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180318	We move to deliver a position on behalf of the Club of Representatives and Independent Representatives, the first in line is Mr Ante Pranic in front of the Independent Youth List. He's gone. He's losing his right. The second is Mr. Željko Glasnović in front of Croatian sovereigns and independent representatives Zeljko Glasnović and Zlatko Hasanbegovic, please welcome Mr. Glasnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180319	Dear colleagues, the constant subject of corruption, what is done about it, that's where the heads of the DORH line up, until I don't know if UskoK was here, of course he wasn't, we have all the information. We've been taping in place for 30 years. SOA confirms that this is the biggest internal danger for the Croatian state, there was Feldmarsal Jelenic of the DORH, says it is working on the issue, but in reality it is just a smoke screen. It's not too much on HTV, it's key information, but we're looking at it for example. The fifth day, the Labyrinta, where it's clouded and completely fueled the cause of all of this. Questions, rhetorical questions, why so far has no list of red directors, businesses, commercials in the former system from the 80's to the 90's, there lies a rabbit in the bush. Where are they? What is it with those who were destroying state-owned companies, they put 20% share, a company in bankruptcy and workers on the street. Is that barely done? Is it hard to find out about these, we have EUROPOL, INTERPOL, SOA, I don't know anymore, CIA, 16 intelligence agencies, that we have no idea about bank accounts outside, more than 70,000 kuna, is that possible? And of course, that's why there's no money for HVO, that's why there's no money, now I've said about kindergartens and other critical things because there's 30 billion kunas stolen from here every year, coming out of here. And it's everybody's fault, we've got the left, right wing of the party. They're fine, they're great, and why don't they start with them when we talk about the Law of Origin of Property. What's that? Say, what about the former companies, I mentioned to you, these directors, what about the origins of the assets of these former skis? Where did that property go? Who shared that? SuBNOR, SKH,......... It's okay, buddy, I know who you are, but it smells like your soul smells in here. Shut up about it. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Talk, you're the one... [[Intruder Radin: No discussion.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Cameleon...... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's what we've been saying before, what's safe, we say it's part of national security. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]] We're talking national security. What about the files, the files of the former foster parents, etc.? Today some are sitting in the Parliament, where they paraded here today for the Assembly... But they ratted out their colleagues there in the former system, and there's also a code name Odysseus. [[You don't understand.]] And when I say that, it's forbidden on HTV, because... they stole six cameras four, five years ago from pianos to cameras. You have a cold drive there and we have to watch the red-camera confessional on Sunday at 2:00 we have to watch it, day five, the Labyrinth where the children of these former staffs and former refugees and others who ratted out their colleagues there they paraded on HTV. The last time I was on HTV, I asked a gentleman, and I'm not gonna get there. That's actually not what censorship is about. This is just one oversight of some kind of democracy here. What about stolen property? Big peasants here. You chased 200 thousand German peasants there from Eastern Slavonia, took away all the land. They were killed in camps. And today as an example, who's looking for those people back? This is a taboo topic. When you killed 66,000, your predecessors of this left party, here the party wing, then you took away 3,000 square miles of land from them. And now I'm going to tell you why Croatia is in trouble. 'Cause you've chased those guys naked with the papal kids with these... They had three grades of elementary school. [[You don't understand.]] You've been robbed by both companies. You drove the peasants to the collectives and what did we get here? We see what we've got, an empty Slavonia. Now I'm gonna say this in the end. The descendants of these Germans, five hundred of them, fled from that red terror, went to Brazil. Today, the descendants of these Germans in Brazil, the San Paulo province of GDP, their businesses are bigger than... the city of 400 thousand San Paulo in Brazil, and that's us. Until this changes, until academic and other lustration is spent, we won't go far. But these are naturally taboo topics on HTV.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180320	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, here you go, Mr. Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180321	Dear Vice President, Article 238 was injured where Mr. What's called...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180322	... /Intruder Radin: Article, article?/...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180323	238, I said.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180324	.... /Intruder Radin: 238. good./...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180325	Mr. Glasnovic insults me as an agent, so I would like to tell Mr. Glasnović that no one has ever been to the party in my family. But I'll tell you, we haven't even escaped to Canada for 30 years, and we've been hiding in Canada like you, and now you're holding moral sermons.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180326	Listen, monkey one....
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180327	You must hold the sermons and insult still...... [[The intruder doesn't understand...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180328	Mr. Glasnović, you have a breach, you have the first breach of the Rules of Procedure...... Please... [[The intruder doesn't understand...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180329	A colleague of Glasnović, a colleague of Glasnović...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180330	... /Invader Glasnović:... I didn't run anywhere, you drove me away. [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180331	Please keep the guards separate from the MPs. Please keep the guards separate from the MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180332	So here I am. I'm not afraid of you... /... [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180333	... Mr. Glasnović, we're not in the Foreign Legion. [[Intruder Glasnović:... not understood]] This is the Parliament. And please sit down and let's stop this. ... Please, nice. [[Vlasnović: not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180334	The following will be the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns and Independent Representatives Zeljko Glasnović and Zlatko Hasanbegovic, and the Honored Representative Zeljko Glasnović will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180335	Dear colleagues, vice president of the assembly, the permanent theme system, the judiciary of the functional state, what's going on. When we look at all this machine, the bureaucratic apparatus in Croatia, I think it's bigger than what the Chinese have per capitals that are in China, the Republic of China today. This one has 100,000, 100,000 people in public administration, the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs, I think 1,300 employees, what are the results of this massive red tape on the ground and what are we looking at? Is it just buying social peace, do these people stat or earn their salary? Here's an example of the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs. Where is this economic diplomacy where these greefield investments are, the empty Lika, the empty Slavonia, what are we waiting for? If the American ambassador comes, as his citizen invests $100,000 there, which is not a large sum by some standards internationally, he comes to the opening of such a company, an investment. I don't see much out there, I see there advertising prosciuttos, the Adriatic and the truffles, but it's a low zone, the season only lasts so long, which is after that. Law enforcement, we are at the bottom of the EU, here at the bottom, of which I think 52, 113 countries, Croatia is 52 after the implementation of the rules. We have a total gap on the ground between regulations and laws and enforcement. For example, simple examples in the country of the suburbs of London have an illegal eldorado on the Adriatic, concreteization, illegal building on islands, I read recently that 250 objects are. If you say illegal construction in Canada, Switzerland, you'd end up there in a mental hospital in electroshock therapy it's an unknown term, and of course there's an eldorado for kletocrates, why we're surprised, because it's the same mental set of that gangan. We have parties sitting here, for example. This party of destructive individuals, Croatian national shame, right wing of the party, etc. And as we're surprised, the mental circuit remains the same. Here, wild dumps, Zagreb looks like, separating this green energy, the green plan for Europe, we compare with Switzerland, so on, Denmark, and Zagreb looks like Calcutta on the Sava. Look around in Zagreb here we have waste disposal in national parks from the Adriatic toll, I think there what was thrown there for decades, tons of waste, and who was to blame. It's not just the system, it's the metal heritage of Communism that annulled the concept of individual responsibility. Building permits,.../incomprehensible/... registration until it's all finished it costs more than you'll build the house, and that corruption at every level actually generates corruption. Everyone's asking for a piece of cash from these 200,000 tenants, extras by the offices. I mentioned a few days ago this what's going on in the IRS, we're still waiting for a solution for mammal roads, for the IRS, etc. Slow justice is not justice. 1,000 Croats waiting to return seized violent property. That's what Mr. Shucker mentioned in line with the European standards of the judiciary, no, it's just a mere smoke curtain. 1,000 people are looking for their property back and that law has been extended for five years. Those who killed them, their predecessors in those apartments, they're the real owners of those people who've been looking for a return of property, they've been sitting there for decades and, and the government and others have been waiting for them to disappear biologically because they're going to die while it's all worked out. We are still suffering from post-Communist sclerosis and the state administration cannot function on the basis of bribery and corruption. That means we have to end this cremation, it's a process of one, it's not despair, and where the sentences are 3 to 10 years and again there's a revision of conversion and privatisation and retroactive laws and at the end of the origin of the assets that must be carried out here, then everything will be clearer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180336	Now, counterpart Zeljko Glasnovic is in front of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns and Independent Representatives Zeljko Glasnović and Zlatko Hasanbegovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180337	Dear colleagues. All the masks are falling, the land of heaven has sworn, you know the rest. Such a practice Croatia? We heard this morning, the pension system crashes, we hear from phrases, independent institutions, rule of law, conflict of interest, yesterday we look at Pantochaka, a performance that's good at the jazz club somewhere in New York, but not exactly for the presidential palace upstairs, only the hat there was a symbol of what's going on up there, who's ruling us, the red hat. What about the IRS? One billion kuna washed away, and the godfather of the writings that stores the tax administration's documentation is the godfather of Mr Milanovic, our president. What is this affair tax administration? Let's get some more on the conflict of interest. What this constitutional judges are doing up there, some have been privatizing and converting, robbed state-owned enterprises, sitting in the Constitutional Court. Some ex-wife of yours... Directors, is this a conflict of interest? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There are people there who worked for KOS, and the files are in Belgrade, we have some people here, secret files in Belgrade, and they ratted out students. DORH, here's what this is about, what the DORH does if there's people sitting here who own themselves state property, worth millions of kunas, titijugends, and I'm talking about conflict of interest. Now the cream on the cake, the Masons. Yes, the largest mass lodge of the Grand Orient lodge came here in '93. Mr. Sarinic brought the same rest to him when Croatia was at war. What's masculinity? I'm alive in a country where masseony is standard procedure. Is this the Pere Cvrzice Society as Mr. Light says, imagine going there to operate on your eyes and see, the last thing you see there if you've given up a secret you see this Mr. Gabric operating on you and that's the last thing you'll see. To whom do Masons swear oaths, to whom do they swear, who is the great architect? So you know that when the French Revolution was launched a little bit about history you had 300, 400 lodges only in Paris and they brought that woman I'm not going to say that word to a prostitute in the Notre Dame cathedral where they were making a big emergency. Then after that, they killed 110,000 Catholics in the province.../incomprehensible/... and today the heirs of that doctrine are sitting here disguised as Democrats, and in fact they are left in the heart of the great communists. They took an oath, you know, buddy Tito we swear to you, and theirs was this, the biggest sacrament was when they entered the Central Committee. What about you, if you give away the secrets of the Mason, you can wake up one morning and open the mailbox and see how your testicles fly over your left shoulder. When we talk about where the retrozacons are about conversion and privatisation? Where's the list of.../incomprehensible/... directors, where are the instructions for movable courts? From community to community, let's see who's got what. That's where people parade every day, and they steal money hard money and give us lectures. And who's sitting here? What's prison, judge investigator, 10 years incarceration for corruption, immediate confiscation of illegally acquired property. We have more morals in federal prison than in Croatian politics and in assembly. Nobody cares about that. In fact, you've got people in prison, he's been smoking weed, and let him steal millions of people from nothing, and they're playing democracy. And he asks Mr. Hrelja why there's no money in the pension system? He knows exactly why that is. But I'd lock these people up, put them in a prison system and just let some of this information go to jail, have their own hierarchy, a prison telegraph that's snitches or just say political pedophiles will only remain pedophiles and then they're boiled like rabbits there. No one would steal anything anymore. But we don't have movable courts, we don't have the right laws, we have a smoke screen of democracy where they.../incomprehensible/... we struggled to take over power, communists and Masons. I think this patron of the Croatian Parliament is St. Joseph, and there are no peasants, I would say we should quickly put on this sign of the Croatian Assembly of Charafciger for some heads, it will come well to some when the loss of congregation seats can operate there in the parking lots and other places, here is the bourum of Mr. Hrelja and your mates, there are no peasants today but I think it's for them here.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180338	The next club of MPs will be that of Croatian sovereigns and independent representatives Zeljko Glasnović and Zlatko Hasanbegovic on behalf of whom the respected representative Hrvoja Zekanovic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180339	Last week we ended the vote in a way that the company Milorad Pupovac left the session because it blackmailed his coalition partner, Andrej Plenkovic, that they would not vote on the Census Law if minorities, of course, were not able to participate in the census in Croatia. What's the point of that? The goal is simple. Indeed, there are barely 25% of Serbs in Vukovar and 34% of Serbs in the list. So there's a 25% real, 34% on the list. Milorad cared deeply about being equal to the number of Serbs again so that he could bring confusion to the Croatian hero city of Vukovar. And just to ask, does Andrej Plenkovic have a majority, whether Mr. Milodar Pupovac will continue to insist on this, or will, or will Milodar Pupovac still give in and perhaps this government will continue to move on. I think it's more likely, though, that it's more likely to give in to Andrej Plenkovic, but we'll see. However, what is the same question, here I also asked him when voting and President Andrey, excuse me, Gordan Jandrokovic. Why was there no Law on the declaration of Vukovar in the place of a special pitet? Why wasn't it? Why wasn't it? Is it perhaps the blackmail of Mr. Pupovec? Is that his blackmail? I don't know. And then, where's the culmination of all this? Because I am loud and clear, and I will repeat that every day, I said it was a Serbian-Croatian trade coalition. That's why there's a vandal attack on my family's house the next morning. My colleagues are silent, the speaker of the assembly is silent, the speaker of the assembly is silent, Minister Bozinovic is silent, Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic is silent. Everybody's quiet. Unremembered vandal attack on the integrity of your fellow representative in the Croatian Parliament. Unremembered. Never in the history of the Croatian Parliament has property, family, family house been attacked in such a way. Never and never let it happen again and don't let it happen again. But when it comes to Milorad Pupovac, when someone hits him with a slice of lemon, we'll say lemon fetish, and then they all get on their backs and the Prime Minister and the opposition and Mr. Maras and everyone else and then they defend Milorad Pupovac. That's not all, it happened a few days ago and incinerated, according to Grandma's property, the furrows, the snooze in Imotsky. Three dolls, two in your arms, one in your arms. And a hell of a problem. A colleague of Taritash, a colleague of Bauk's, is filing criminal charges, raising criminal charges against the masquerade organizers, the masquerade. So we're people, is this society normal? Does anyone in this society know what masquerade is and what message is sent to masquerade? And on the other hand, Andrej Plenkovic, who condemned the act and Gordan Jandroković, who condemned the act, of course also colleague Maras and colleague Mrak Taritaš and colleague Bauk, ignore that in 2012, the Association Pride Zagreb made an educational film where heterosexual couples were burned. And that's okay and there were no criminal charges, but, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, my colleague Maras is talking about burning heterosexual couples' dolls in the arrangement, directing means homosexual associations, and that's true. Anyone who doesn't believe should go to my Facebook and see, the film is publicly available, so the film is publicly available, and you have it on YouTube, it's easy to find. So we have a schizophrenic situation where we have a fake right hand that agrees with the left, and that's what we're going to see for dinner. And all viewers who are watching this today's show I call on them to be awake until the night they will see Plenkovic's HDZ and Maras SDP agreeing on abortion laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180340	Thank you very much. We have two injuries to the Rules of Procedure. The first is the respected representative of Ostojić, please. What did the Rules of Procedure get hurt in?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180341	The Honorable Vice President was injured in Article 238, which means he can't insult other MPs, change their names from Milorad to Milorad, and it's not right to call representatives a socialist, to address them in this way. For this reason, I think that regardless of the freedom of speech here, I must also point out that the issue of the Constitution of protected rights must also be protected and no one can deny the first MPs to do what is required under the law, which is when they consider that a criminal act has been committed to register it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180342	Thank you very much. Uh, I don't think the Rules of Procedure is hurt because nobody's actually offended. This, being a colleague of Zekanovic several times mentioned by his colleague Pupovac, several times rightly, has changed his name a few times, this may be a confusion, may be conscious, may be aware as his fellow Pupovac called him, so we also did not respond, it is not an insult. Uh, I think here's colleague Gordan Maras wouldn't be offended if I didn't know he was Gordan or Goran, for example. Or this one, therefore this one is not an insult. Whether we agree or disagree with someone's exposure is another story. Uh, fellow Maras, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180343	Comrade Reiner, I also think you hurt the same article and 237, but this is a dangerous precedent that you're saying. You are now publicly inviting a colleague of Zekanovic to continue to do so. That he's still talking about a colleague named Milodar, because you won't sanction him. So there's no confusion there is intent. Well, you're not so naive that you think a man's confused, but I recognize the regret that Zekanovic is not a Pupović because he would like sympathy when he attacks him, and on the other hand he doesn't condemn aggression to another fellow MP. So on that side, it seems like it's a lot more authentic than Milodar. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180344	Thank you very much, this one I estimate is not a injured Rules of Procedure for the same reasons. All right, colleague Zekanovic, please, but let's stop it. I said the Rules of Procedure didn't get hurt.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180345	I'd just, I'd apologize, I'd talk a little faster, so instead of Milorad, I told Milorad, so that's one coincidence that might be very interesting given the charity that Milorad gets from Andrej Plenkovic for his news. But here I am, sorry, I'm going to talk a little more carefully and slowly.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180346	Okay. This esteemed colleague, Bacic, is also responsible for the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180347	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I agree that the injured Rules of Procedure of Article 238, and that it is inappropriate for fellow MPs to call the wrong name and do so on purpose. But Mr. Maras is the last one to honor anyone because here he deliberately called a young Europarliamentary candidate on several occasions, deliberately wrongly, a wrong name. Well, then, fellow Maras, you'd do well to remember your performances here to be judged by others.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180348	Thank you very much, let's, let's go with those names.../incomprehensible/... please all pay attention to the fact that we call our colleagues an exact name, if we don't know what people are called, this one because each of us is sensitive of course to what they call it, so this one please let us pay attention to that. I'm running a session for the time being, when you're most of you will be sitting there, and it will certainly be much more order than it is now.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180349	The second is Mr. Željko Glasnović in front of Croatian sovereigns and independent representatives of Mr. Glasnović and Mr. Hasanbegovic, please welcome Mr. Glasnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180350	Dear colleagues, Vice President HS, Mr Sponza, we hear legal anarchy on the ground, as can happen. We've had laws, we've heard that for three decades, there's no implementation mechanism, but we have hundreds of thousands of people in public administration. Training, rerouting them to where they need to be, to inspections, to iron out on the ground. My theme today is about what you've been saying. I've lived outside, I've mentioned it before, there's the notion of illegal construction unknown, you're going to jail or insane. Your mouths are full of human rights, national security, etc., and the Czech Republic needs 10,000 for a referendum, you go to a debate in the assembly, hundreds of us, all ignored, hundreds of thousands. You have some news yesterday from Slovakia, Slovakia has not ratified the agreement this in fact Istanbul Convention, it means we in the Republic of Croatia have here, we have positive discrimination and the Croats have become in their country as a roach, give caste the lowest in India, you have it there, there clean toilets publicly with our hands, it's the lowest caste, we've become in their country. Yesterday there was a committee for this, the Board of Shows and Appeals, a delegation from the Czech Republic came, two hours went by. One member of this minority, I won't say that minority, there sitting, he spoke for an hour and 40 minutes, left 15 minutes for the Czechs and 5 minutes for the others, which means that censorship at work is not only in... The media. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now that means that, that red nobility is networked, we can expect this altohonous province for the Yugoslavs somewhere in Croatia and what we are going to do, run the country so.../incomprehensible/... The main theme today is land again, we have in the River Katarina Ratkovic of Rijeka older women, since '97. For years, it has been a dispute against the city of Rijeka because it is its property. There's ten thousand squares, a few million kunas, he can't win, inherited from his mother. What's going on? And here I am, I gave the address to this memo today, and now that our esteemed vice president is also from Istria, I'm also giving him this memo for reviewing, yes, that these are human rights. The woman's looking for a return of property. [[Intruder: Thank you very much Mr. Glasnović.]] In every country private property is sacred, sacred only in post-Communist countries. If she can't get her land back, she's been slow for, like, 30 years, and this is just one smoke screen of that democracy. You've got a sales contract outside, you've got heirloom paper, you've got a space, you've got air footage, geodetics, you've got a pin number for a card. No one can take it from you, no one can take it from you, it's your private, sacred. What about the rest of Croatia? What about the rest of Croatia? What about this memo that was sent there 30 years ago to DORH and the Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crime, what have they done so far? What about the rest of Croatia? Whose land is sold in Slavonia? I mentioned 10 times the German minority, 200,000 of them were in Croatia, the most valuable minority driven away, driven away, taken 3,000 km2 of land, as if it hadn't been. There are Bene's screams on this one in strength that these people cannot return, they speak Croatian, and they would return and rebuild East Slavonia, but no, their land is sold. That means we've legalized the biggest robbery in the history of these premises and we're playing Democrats, Liberals, Progressives. There's something strange in the air here we have people who were in Catholic youth, ministers, Don Bosch, etc. And they're flying overnight into militant atheists and communists. It's incomprehensible to me, but we're moving on. Well, human rights. This is not of interest to anyone when we say how many such cases are in the city of Zagreb, where people live in other people's apartments, have not been reported in these apartments, live there for half a century, people have been killed or driven away, half a century, have adopted state property, no one. I'm holding in my hand here a list of 10,000 gunmen from Zagreb, 10,000 you're not going to.../incomprehensible/... that one day I'm going to read here it took me maybe a month to do it, but that's not interested in anyone, we're playing Democrats and great progressives here, liberals, and finally another parade of republics where former staffs work at all levels.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180351	Thank you very much for the document, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180352	Now we're going to take 2.3 minutes off, and then there's a discussion of clubs and independent representatives. The first is the honorary colleague Željko Glasnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180353	Here, colleagues and colleagues will now, as has been said, move to a position on behalf of the club and the first on behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns and Independent Representatives Željka Glasović and Zlatko Hasanbegovic will speak to the respected representative Željko Glasović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180354	Dear colleagues and colleagues who remained, again the same question as last night's national security. What are security checks in public services, in the administration from the strategic top to the strategic, tactical level? It is a key issue for Croatia because politics is a human policy. A year ago SOA said, I think, the statement was that until '95. 40 members of the service were discovered, and the service that worked for the enemy. Is that possible? Here, another what about security checks? A simple employer when you go there, of course you'll run this, you'll give your CV, the resume there, the resume, he'll tell you that he'll look for things from your past when you get there, if you're lying, you have no business. What about us? We have a president of the state, was he a member of the SKl Yugoslavia, wasn't he? That's the key question. If he lied about it, what does it say about the moral-ethic code at that greatest strategic level. What are we looking at? We're looking at this release today of the gentleman of this state's attorney, but it's all networked. This means we have an uninterrupted one, a history of conflict of interest from Mr. Bajic further as we can talk about an independent judiciary if all these people are networked. Is that possible? But it's Janus, the god of Janus with two faces, party members and masculinity. We know that very well, it is ignored, and here today sits the heirs of that system. I asked you today, for example. This is why there is no census for the Yugoslavs if this is how they declared themselves in '89. why change this attitude today. They wouldn't have changed their ethnicity so many times if they'd finally turned out to be Belarusians or Moldovans, I don't know anymore, it's also a matter of morality and ethics. You have fake biographies. We also have portals, in the media people who worked for the secret services of other states. I have a man like that in Istria who worked for AIDS. It is the BiH secret secret of this BiH Information and Documentation Agency, it is the neighbouring country by.../incomprehensible/... disformation in a journal in Istria. Where is this man now? I didn't read anything about it that anyone invited him to an informative conversation. And today the party comrades are interpreting the past and present, the law on the investigation of the origin of the property, how we're going to question if everything is networked. Returning money from abroad? One president received two mandates on the subject that he would return the money outside, we saw nothing of it. We've also seen that this president foresaw $50,000 from Australia, it's still in court. We got, what do we got? Economic destruction, of course, a networked judiciary at all levels. And what do we have, for example? We have a file of others in Belgrade. It's a threat to national security. How many people have frustrated their files that are down there now? How can they be in public places if they are a threat to that national security. It's not just the media, it's not just politicians, it's tactical. If someone covers the company, he's.../incomprehensible/... he can't do this public job, he can be in a private company if someone wants him but he has to publish his entire file and CV. If you do it out there, if you're lying, you'll never have a job. Unfortunately, we have a file, 1,000 files, if I have this, for example. for some people who worked outside, working together. Here, just one example here you have one code name, Franco, he volunteered, he was an informer, there's a reliable, there eventually it says he loves women and maybe the money he loved the same. These people are amongst us here there are tens of thousands of them from tactical to strategic level and we can't build a state until there's at least that academic lustration and that we know who these people were.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180355	Thank you very much. This will end with today's work, we will continue on Wednesday 4 March at 9:30 and the first item will be the Final Proposal for the Law amending the Law on maternity and parental support, second reading, P.Z. Number 815. I wish you a pleasant weekend. Session interrupted at 13.57 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180356	4th debate of respected Croatian counterpart Hrvoje Zekanovic on behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns and Independent Representatives Zeljko Glasović and Zlatko Hasanbegovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180357	Croatian sovereigns have been warning of the migrant crisis for years. Some then called it the refugee crisis, today they changed a little rhetoric, so they started calling it the real name, the migrant crisis. It's not about refugees. It's about over. It's just about migrants. Migrants. A year and a half ago, Croatia ratified and signed a global compact, a global contract, a global migration agreement, etc. The Marrakech Agreement. I believe you all remember him. Not all the countries of the world have signed it, many have not. It was not signed by Australia, not signed by the United States, Israel, Hungary, Bulgaria, many European countries did not sign it. However, Croatia signed it. Andrej Plenkovic sent to Marrakesh Minister Bozinovic, who signed the so-called The Marrakech Agreement. And at the time, Andrej Plenkovic smiled like that to the Croatian sovereigns and specifically, to me, at my demonstration against the Marrakek Agreement. He said, that's funny, there is no real danger for Croatia since the migrant crisis. It doesn't exist. It's imaginary. Croatian sovereigns invented it. That story doesn't hold water. And when we called upon the army hundreds of times at Croatian borders to defend sovereignty, the sovereignty of our state, too, Andrej Plenkovic was just shaking his hand and smiling and talking, that's not our problem. Today, however, something has changed in Andrej Plenkovic's policy. What's changed? Has any danger to Croatia changed? Is she smaller or bigger? I would even say that today may be slightly less dangerous because Europe is determined to defend itself at the Greek border. But today because this corresponds to Brussels, today all the owners, European, Brusselsian, have come across the Greek-Turkish border to point out this big problem. And a few years ago, no one. What's the matter? Does Andrej Plenkovic have any new knowledge? Of course not. Of course not. But this time he, as before, only listens to the dictatorship of Brussels. At the time when Brussels does not respond to migration, it will not answer to Andrej Plenkovic, it will not answer to the Croatian government, it will not answer to Croatia either. When they correspond to Brussels, Angela Merkel and the team, migration will also correspond to the Croatian government. For those who do not know, migrations are driven exclusively by economic reasons, but not so much by the reasons that come from broadcasting countries, from countries in sub-Saharan Africa, North Africa, the Middle East and the Middle East, but by the economic reasons of the countries receiving them. So, Germany, France, Italy, they need migrants, they need labour. However, they were a little wrong. These migrants are obviously not the kind of workforce Germany needs. They failed to integrate into society. Germany failed to take advantage of them, and now, okay, we don't need migrants, we will defend the EU decisively at the borders of Greece and Turkey. Just because they saw that labor force didn't suit them. But Croatia is here in a double-loose situation. Because migrants are not the appropriate workforce Germany needs, the Germans will turn to the Croatian workforce. Not only to the Croatian, and to the Ukrainian and Polish and Bulgarian and Romanian and tomorrow to the Macedonians. So, however we turn, Croatia will lose in this story. It will either become a hotspot because neighbouring countries, Slovenia and Hungary have placed a fence on their borders, or the Croats, because Pakistanis, Afghans do not match the Germans, will compensate for the need for labour in Germany and other EU countries. So, Croatian sovereigns were and will be those who point to the necessity of defending the sovereignty of our country with all its attributes.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180358	Now we will stop for a moment and move on to free speech, i.e. making a position on behalf of the club of representatives, and the first on behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns and Independent Representatives Željko Glasnović and Zlatko Hasanbegovic will speak for the esteemed representative Željko Glasnović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180359	Dear colleagues, fellow Members. Climate change, environment, how to solve the problem of this individual responsibility in Croatia, when we have laws, the regulation on the ground we know what it is. I'm going to talk about another topic and it's a parasitic relationship to the state and the mental heritage of that former system, that homo Yugoslav. The Germans have one expression for scheister thieves, frauds, they call it the Germans South Betrugo, so it entered the jargon in Germany on the mental section of the former state where most of the heads were princes of "The Wooden", from state companies to the Central Committee. And it's so much rooted here, imagine you, that someone even peeled Soros... I mean, 400 thousand kunas, they didn't pay taxes, and they stole him too. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And when Soros saw the bill from Croatia, he almost fainted as much as they stole these here. Of course, we have a surface analysis today, we see the network of these former personnel and new enemies on the horizon, and they're all networked, Masons, we all know they were party members, etc. What's going on now? Well, I'd be very interested to know how many heads would come here in the apron of masseuses if they knew how many heads we have here in the Assembly sitting here who are members of this secret society, who burned the party books. We have, at a higher level, the European Court of Human Rights, which is worrying, of 22 judges in the European Court of Human Rights, out of a hundred, actually judges, 22 are related to 7 NGOs, and these associations, they urge immigrants and give them instructions on how to get asylum, and migrants. Judges, 12 of these judges are tied to an open society and yet it is a conflict of interest, and the open society has a state budget annually for about a billion kuna is the state budget of the European, this Soros, just one.../incomprehensible... this open society. 18 of the 22 judges in... The Court of Human Rights has been working on cases initiated by an open society, an independent judiciary, once again a rhetorical issue has worked to a minimum, up to now 88 cases have been investigated regarding human rights initiated by an open society, only an open society without these other associations. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Then what about resolutions? Why are we surprised? The EU resolution, the totalitarian regimes, there is no extreme right, only the extreme left can be easily proved. What do we got here? We have NGOs run by members of the red nobility, their heirs, it's this whole Alphabet soup, GONG,.../incomprehensible/... there was recently one representative in the assembly who gave his brother money, there, it's not a conflict of interest, I'm not sure. In this alphabet soup, of course, there are NGOs doing business, but those at the top of that cream de la cream civil society from the state budget are coming to them 1.5 billion kunas, which is without funds from the EU and these local self-government, who knows what's going on there, and imagine they're attacking the church that runs the soup kitchen, taking care of the homeless, working, and these croaks from these NGOs they haven't wiped out anyone's buttocks and their only job is keeping Croatia on the indictee bench on the international stage. Fascism of Croatia. There are some heads here that are certainly connected to the media with these NGOs,.../incomprehensible/... associations etc. We rebel, recently I read in the paper a cleaning lady handed over this forged CV résumé and we train strictness on these people, and here sits the heads that burned the biographies and there the lie detector would melt if they gave their biographies for the job somewhere. And that's terrible, so we're still having this impact on the mental set of the South Betruga has a head here in life they haven't worked, they've got fake diplomas, they've burned the party books and until we get rid of them we won't have a functional modern state.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180360	Mr. Glasovic will speak on behalf of the Sovereignist and Independent Representatives Glasovic and Hasanbegovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180361	My colleagues and colleagues, here comes my colleague, Day of Women, I wish you all the best, and may the Holy Maturia Protector who protects you from fools, protect you from idiots, men, violent men, psychological terror, I hope that this Holy Maturia will protect us better than so far these Istanbul Conventions. I didn't want to talk about this today is a theme of chemicals, there's everything from agronomics to agronomists to nuclear physicists but I think we have other problems than chemo, of course it's important, we have brain pollution from that former system. Most of these members aren't here today with us doing intellectual terror all the time, but we'll have the last word. Truth is, the truth doesn't have this ideological omen, it's true. Neither victims have this, no one has a monopoly on the victim and history is not, history is not an Olympics of suffering and every victim has his right except for the Croatian victim. Every day we see, every week we open mass graves, we see Zagreb, Zaprešić, now we see Bjelovar, nothing. Who killed those people, who killed those Croats, you don't know anything, just an open mass grave on the portal. Are there any Balkan Egyptians buried there? Imagine if the iroques had been refuted there, if God had not been found there, if it were either a Jew, that would have been all the headlines from the New York Times to Frankfurt Allgemaine Zeitung, but when the Croats were nothing. The media is giving more attention to these other topics, let's say maybe the new adventures of Lucky Luka age more space on television than these topics, and we're talking about truth and catharsis, of which there's nothing. And that, truth be told, there's no ideological omen, that's what I said and we're still being carried out... intellectual terror, the truth is hidden, but for the media, the unspoken truth is worse than lies, and we still don't accept it, we have all the empirical evidence and I'm holding a list of 10,000 gunmen in Zagreb. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Who moved into their apartments? Perhaps we should ask this Mr. President Josipovic. And nothing to anyone. Imagine it happened in Poland. And we keep our mouths shut. We shut up, we play democracy, and we're still de facto in the one-party system. Shut up, intellectual terror, keep quiet about Hitler-Stalja's pact, so everyone has to... The past, no one else. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Who knows the same thing about Ljudevit Jurak who was killed, the forensic scientist here discovered the truth about the pact that killed tens of millions of people, which was killed by 41st. Who knows what Srdjan Cvetkovic, a Serbian historian, entered archives, gave a lecture in Zagreb and found a list of 56 thousand gunmen shot by communist partisans in Belgrade. 25% of these people are under 18. The cemetery, the Germans have a commission on war graves, that's what every civilised state has. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And now, according to the portals of the heiress of this red nobility, this bloody criminal regime, they are now being disturbed by Stipe Javor, who was killed in Sremska Mitrovica in the '30s when this state terror ruled in the old Yugoslavia. Who knows, too, 300 peasants there were then killed, about Schufflay, Milan Schufflay, etc. There's still a culture of fear, a culture of oblivion and this, we forget... It hides here, not only in the Parliament, but in the media, in public space, that this regime of Yugoslav communists under a sickle and hammer, five-pointed, killed more people, it can be proven, you have empirical evidence, but you have Ljotics, Nedicians, Ustashas, Chetniks, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And today we still live in this culture of oblivion, and others impose their opinion on us and we keep silent and watch on the television of Jakovina, Klasic, former UJDI members who are... Students, we have an interpretation of history, we are convinced that people like Mika Špiljak were these, Croatian nationalists. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And nobody asks him what Mike Spiljak was doing when Djorekovic was killed and how much money was stolen in the '90s. A year. And keep quiet about this economic crime and that is why 5% of the land books are properly recorded and this terror continues and is welcomed in "Croatia".
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180362	We are going to a second debate, a respected colleague of Hrvoje Zekanovic on behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns and Independent Representatives Zeljko Glasovic and Zlatko Hasanbegovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180363	About a month and a half ago, I was the first person in HS to talk about the coronary virus. Then some colleagues who were present here today looked at me with a mockery, some from the opposition, some from the ruling, today no one laughs. It's not funny to anyone today. When I went to Marrakesh a year and a half ago to protest against global migration and the global migration compact, and then it was funny, so they made fun of me for being the only Protestant in the world even though I wasn't the only one in the world. No one's funny about migration today. When I talk about the coronary virus, the coronaryvirus, unfortunately, has become the everyday one in Croatia. In some EU countries like us neighbouring Italy is literally a disaster, tanks are on the streets, Giuseppe Conte says the darkest hours in the history of Italy, quoting Winston Churchill, 10,000 patients, over 6,000 dead so far, about 2,000 in Germany, 2,000 in France, 2,000 in Spain. Now, the U.S. that have been immune to the coronary virus so far, here it is today, registered by 1,000 people, we have a national guard in New York, a state of emergency in California, we have 10,000 prisoners released from Iranian prisons, we have 100 escaped prisoners in Italy. And I'm just wondering if we're ready? Is Croatia ready for this challenge? Or perhaps some colleagues and colleagues from the assembly, the Prime Minister of our country will mock this legitimate parliamentary issue of mine. Is Croatia ready? Because this situation could have been predicted. Do we have enough sanity material, do we have enough gloves, disinfectants, mask, do we have enough respirators? In Italy today there are 1,000 people who should be on the respirator, and they are not because they are gone, is Croatia enough? Is there any? I don't know, and maybe Minister Beros knows, maybe Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic knows and might answer. A brief and clear question, if we happen to have a scenario today in Iran, South Korea, Italy in the same size as our population, do we have enough respirators? So it doesn't turn out tomorrow if we don't have enough of them like most European countries don't have them. Although topics are diametrically opposite, today I must mention another topic. I believe that all viewers know who King Tomislav is, knows who Josip Juraj Strossmayer, Ante Starcevic, Stjepan Radić, Alojsija Stepinac, Franjo Tudjman, everyone knows who they are, they are Croatian giants. And these Croatian giants until the other day had their place on Pantovack in the Croatian President's residence. They don't anymore. The reason was because it was a question of our Croatian president, Croatian President Zoran Milanovic, whether he will return war criminal or simply criminal Josip Broz Tito to Pantovčak or will please his team remove these giants from Pantovac. He made this second. He says it's their place in the museum. I think that the policy he represents is not a place in the museum, but is not a place at all in any public space, anywhere in the world, because in this way, in a small door, try to even it out and put it is a sign of equality between the Croatian giants that I have just listed and one man who deserves his place anywhere is unacceptable. It's just inadmissible. However, Zoran Milanovic, according to his worldview, did not surprise us but did exactly what we expected him to do, he forgot that Croatia also had a history that was famous and that these people deserve their place and places like the Croatian President's residence.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180364	Mr. Željko Glasnović will be the position of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns, its position and the position of Mr. Hasanbegović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180365	Dear colleagues, colleagues who remained. Feld Marshal this Vice President of the Parliament, secretary, we are at a turning point in human history, this is very important what I'm going to say today. You see, three things we can never predict, these are natural disasters, not nature, volcanoes, earthquakes, we can't predict economic collapse and the third, pandemics, but this is dangerous pandemics, why? Because in the last 20 years, we've had three pandemics of coronaryvirus and the distance between these pandemics is shorter and shorter. Now that I'm speaking in Africa, East Asia, thousands of viruses are mutating against, we still don't know what kind of animal this is, let alone what's coming. This came of course, one reason is this sudden urbanization, 200 million people have passed in Southeast Asia from urban centres to, in fact, rurals to urban centres and there, the environment is being destroyed and we see what's going on. The bat carries on to another animal, animals to man. They're incubators, these areas of these viruses. Now we're looking at today, how, what are the global reactions to this COVID-19, one of those coronary viruses. I think an example should all follow Taiwan and when I say, I spoke a term of learned lessons. The army has learned lessons. It's not dealing with the past, it's pure analysts here, from economic collapse, these crises to these pandemics. Global reactions, look at countries like Italy, look at Taiwan. Taiwan following the SARS epidemic immediately began training staff, has logistics planning, meaning involved respirators, procurement and other things. She quickly reacted, an example one, China, in China from Taiwan lives there 1.3 million or works there this one, people from Taiwan. So far from the first occurrence of that virus, we have in Taiwan 45 of these cases and 1 death. In China, you have 82,000 infected at least 3,500 dead at least so far. This explains why they reacted quickly because they had learned lessons and a ready system to face this threat based on lessons learned. Their President Taiwan is an epidemiologist, an epidemiologist, they responded immediately, they sent for training, they planned, and here they immediately established a health care command center to deal with these crises, they responded immediately when they immediately saw an unknown inflammation in China, the lungs, immediately reacting there things were simple. There they set up a database, an analysis, they tied the health systems to customs and immigration, they know who's coming, who's leaving, they have standard procedures there, if one kid's sick, the class closes down, if two kids are sick from that virus, the school closes. Simple stuff. And why the learned lesson? Every normal state in all fields of science to retirement, today we're talking about retirement has learned lessons, what we learned from the former system, almost absolutely nothing. We repeat the same problems because we haven't made a systematic analysis as in an army that has 7 battlefield systems, we repeat the same mistakes, I would like to commend our healthcare professionals who have done a very good job so far, of course it depends on the personal responsibility of individuals, citizens. They were also like Taiwanns informing people not to spread panic, but this is just one kind of virus that will repeat itself again in another form. These viruses mutate, which is the worst not only that but bacteria mutate and today 27% of these bacteria are resistant to these standard antibiotics. When it climbs to 40%, we will have an even bigger health crisis, but as we patients will see, unfortunately there is no vaccine for this disease yet, when this vaccine is developed we do not know, and I would like to first develop in Croatia and all post-Communist countries a vaccine that will deal with common sense and that people are vaccinated for the truth, and not against the truth, then we will not repeat the same mistakes that we have repeated so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180366	Dear colleagues, we are now done with this work and we will now move on to the club's point of view. So far, 4 clubs and 5 clubs have reported. Six, he's already got six clubs. So it's going to take us about 30 minutes, and then we're going to start with a united debate about a set of economic laws, so now I'm asking you and you're going back to the same positions that you're sitting in right now and after that. We are starting now with debate, those who do not want to be here, please leave their seats, the first is the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns and Independent Representatives Zeljko Glasnović and Zlatko Hasanbegovic, a respected colleague of Hrvoje Zekanovic, please. Comrades and colleagues, please, those who do not wish to be in the hall to leave the hall, those who remain here, to allow and allow the representative to speak, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180367	Dear President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here, as we have all heard many times these days, Croatia has faced one of the biggest crises in its recent history, however, it is not only the Croatian crisis, it is the global crisis, the crisis of humanity. Here I have to say that even a few weeks ago, and even months ago, I warned the institutions that something was going on, that something was going on behind the hill, that we had a new infection, a new disease coming from China, but here, my colleagues with a mockery looked at me, made fun of me, and they pretended that nothing was happening. Unfortunately, I'll say unfortunately, I was right. Here it is crucial to say that today we can see how important sovereignty really is, how important is the sovereignty of every country. It is today that we see that all those stories about European brotherhood and unity, about European unity, about European solidarity, actually fall into another plan, and there is nothing of them. It is only today that we see how important it is that every country is self-sufficient. It means how important it is that every country can take care of itself. However, if our Croatia is truly sovereign, if Croatia is truly self-sufficient, if Croatia can take care of itself, we will see it in the next period. Unfortunately, I have to say, I have to say, unfortunately, everything that actually could, the one who wanted it, could have seen it, today it's actually showing up in the worst way. So, for years, Croatia has been slowly but surely giving up production, destroying its agriculture systematically, leaving itself no capital industrial branch, and today when the situation is as it is, when the borders are finally closed and every country defends itself not at the borders of the EU, but at the borders of its country, we can only see today how much we were able to react before and how much we could actually do at one point so that what is happening today is not happening. However, it was more important to believe in some supremacy, to believe in the EU, to believe in some kind of community of which there is nothing, but to believe, means to your strength and trust in your strength. I hope that despite the fact that the Croatian authorities did not recognize what I am talking about, the Croatian people will still be strong enough to resist this global disaster they face. So here we have a situation that a little virus that I have to say is coban, cost globalism, cost globalisation, and this is the end of the global society as we knew it. Or maybe not, perhaps after all this, someone decides and says that we were not global enough, since from the centre of power, from Brussels and Washington did not manage well enough countries like Croatia, let's now tighten that belt even more and hold on to these countries as much as possible. So today we have globalisation against which, of course, Croatian sovereigns have often spoken and pointed to its harmfulness, on one of the greatest tests ever. And we'll see after this if there are any concrete authorities in Croatia as well as in other countries that are, for example. EU members, come to their senses that national sovereignty is important, because today I will repeat, we see that the borders of the defence or the state defend themselves at their borders, that all the superstructures that exist in the world are not working today. As far as migration is concerned, here we can see that migration has stopped, and they have ceased with the movement of feathers. At the moment of Mrs. Devereaux's death. Merkel said we no longer want migrants in the EU, migrants simply stood at the border between Greece and Turkey, in other words, all the time lacked political will to stop the problem of migration. And today in the Republic of Croatia we see that the lack of political will, to make the Republic of Croatia self-sufficient, has caused the Republic of Croatia to suffer today from tomorrow. However, I would end this speech with one optimism, the Croatian people are a tough people, they have survived many difficult periods, and they will survive this period.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180368	It is now up to the respected counterpart Hrvoje Zekanovic, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns and Independent Representatives Zeljko Glasovic and Zlatko Hasanbegovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180369	The esteemed speaker of the assembly, respected colleagues and colleagues, would first at first express sincere condolences for the families of the dead girls, would also express solidarity to all those affected by this earthquake, or to those to whom this earthquake has caused any damage, whether material or by the meaning of human health. The Zagrebers have shown themselves very solid among themselves, now it is the turn of the state, now it is the whole of Croatia to help the City of Zagreb and not only the formal assistance, declarative assistance, help from the pay phone, but the real help. And we're waiting for that. And the Zagrebers are waiting for it, and here we are, I'm sure we'll all make that help happen as soon as possible, that all the 100-thousands of Zagreb who are not in a position to be in their home, return as soon as possible and that Zagreb will be as beautiful façades as it was before. We're in one very difficult time, one special time, and unfortunately I think after this pandemic is over, that global epidemic measures time, in time before and after the crown. As we have time before Christ, the time after Christ, unfortunately I think time will be measured before this pandemic and after the pandemic. However, this is exactly the kind of time for community, when there is no room for personal interests, there is no room for politics but for joint management of the system, for showing that true community to the well-being of the Croatian man, for the benefit of the Croatian state. I'm going to say here a very nice example of that community, and that was since '91. year and part of '92. the year Croatia was attacked by Serbs and when the Croatian government was ruled by national unity, the government of Franjo Gregoric at the time of Franjo Tudjman. At that time, the government realized that all must be together, regardless of color, and that in this very great tribulation, a very great danger must be held together. We have done something in Croatia, I will say it differently, we have all brought together a law that is one body that has no electoral legitimacy, and it is called the Civil Protection Staff, we have given it the opportunity to manage the system and there is no more opposition to ask. The centre of civil protection, Minister Bozinovic, partly Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, is actually now deciding on life and death, and community is being sought. So I'm for that true union and let's copy the model that was '91. For years, let's copy it. So when countries are threatened by either military or any other global disaster or such an epidemic as we have today, then governments of national unity or national unity are created whatever. And now it's time for that, let's do it that way. And anyone who doesn't want to work that way, and wants to have a climate of opposition on every move, and there are good moves, and there are fewer good moves in this very difficult situation, is what the government simply can't expect right now or we'll work together or be prepared to criticise. On the other hand, let's take all together and responsibility for the system, we all have electoral legitimacy, let's take responsibility for the Croatians in our country tomorrow. I'd mention another problem here, his colleagues mentioned him, but I'll be here in a minute to try to sum him up, and it's very important, it's very big. The Civil Protection Staff's decision prohibits trade in all Croatian markets. There is a smaller possibility of transmission of the virus or a smaller possibility of contagion in the markets than in the malls, all the epidemiologists say. Most, and I will say almost all EU countries have not made it impossible to work on markets. Why is this a problem? Because hundreds and hundreds of Croatian food producers today have no place to place their products, we have an absurd situation for the colder in Zagreb to work, to drive import goods sold in Croatian shopping centres, while Croatian producers are unable to place their products because the Green Market is closed when and all other markets. We're going to have a failure of this sector if we don't respond immediately. I think the markets have to open up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180370	Thank you. Representative Glasovic will present the position of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns and Independent Representatives Zeljko Glasovic and Zlatko Hasanbegovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180371	Dear colleagues, Vice President of the Parliament. We heard again this morning, the debate, the law of this one, but again I'll repeat myself last week, first we have to stop this pandemic. No one knows how long it'll take. This is a global epidemic, we all know about the global economy what happened now in Canada. A million people asked last week for just unemployment benefits, a million people in a week. We're all in the same boat, and we love it, whether we like it or not. This is a test of responsibility, of humanity for all of us and above all, of the rule of law. Yesterday there was a discussion of cell phone surveillance this, we saw in the former state what was everywhere you had two snitches in every major building, everyone was working from cabbies, the cells were we know who, if I say UDBA will iron me again, that's how it was. You had sports clubs, why this country had more political prisoners per capital than any country. We don't have to go back to that, but we have to ask ourselves now about the law, you have public shame it's popular in China, you post the names of those birdies that were ironing there, there's been some black wine and ironing Thompson's songs, maybe some other from.../incomprehensible/... to Ovcara, and I don't know, post names. We now have the swindlers of the princes of the shivering will appear who in the war, they were at war, not everyone in the war were heroes. Some come out after the rain, people come in today, people go around, shingles cheaters, dressed uniforms of the red cross enter apartments, what about these people, who's being punished. Now Turkey has closed down, arrested 410 of its ticks for spreading provocative posts, misinformation, that's what Turkey does. In Italy, a violation of self-insulation is now a fine of EUR 3,000. This will all pass, we're part of it, we have to influence it, that these laws are implemented, but we're the salon strategists mostly, on the front line are all the doctors' offices, civil protection, spikes don't cook rice, and we need to help them do the job on the ground, so 2 cops have been nicked, imagine it at this time. What else can I say? How do you help people, these now? We're fine. The pay's secure, we're doing great here. What about small, medium-sized enterprises, all you gentlemen here have in the bank accounts of the party millions of kuna, in special accounts, how it's going to be deployed, you want to put in funds or individual cases where it's the hardest. Maybe the individuals, we want to start there, there are funds being created outside in the diaspora, and I welcome them here from the Croatian National Assembly. How will these gatherings be observed so that what happened in the war, in the war, doesn't happen? They're coming, for example. Some materials come, I remember the 550th uniform comes from Canada, winter uniforms, don't come to the airport and disappear, they're princes of the shivering, they're with us today, I don't see anyone else being closed, punished or publicly embarrassed. This is a global thing, if we're going to talk about economic recovery we have to, we don't know when this is going to end. And who it must be, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, that's what Mr. Bulj was talking about agricultural, of course. And now where is 100 billion kuna for agriculture, where are these fruit warehouses, processing and now we're talking about it, but not politics is priority-setting, why it wasn't all a place so far. What happens now? We need to be careful now that this economic damage is resolved, and you're all to blame for sitting here, the ruling party. 100 billion kunas I repeat agriculture where the results are. I'm not terrorizing people anymore. This is a dangerous epidemic. Why? If you're looking at progress every wave of 100,000 people each is smaller and smaller. The first wave lasted 67 days this last two days, already nearly half a million people were infected. In some countries, 1/5 medical staff. We need to get serious, I know that you're not happy about this here in INI, I know that it's hard for some people here to like it, they prefer that they are, they'd feel better if they were in there in the cube if they all know the spaces, there's before anywhere they met, but there we are, heads up, we'll survive this all, if we survived Vukovar, the Vukovars should be an example, Vukovar, middle Bosnia, a year in the environment. I wish you all the best and your head up and your butt against the wall.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180372	The next statement of the position of distinguished representative Željko Glasnović on behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns, Independent Representatives Zeljko Glasnović and Zlatko Hasanbegovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180373	Dear colleagues, we live in a time of dip fakes, fake news and metal coronary virus, and we have that in the Republic of Croatia here. The crisis is not over yet, we have done damage, some are already calling for the collapse of the Croatian state and an open speech of hatred for the Catholic Church and if we are 80% Catholic and why are we suffering it? It's a minority that terrorizes us, those moral typhoids there appear in the virtual world, there on the nets. We have an example. Some kind of civil courage center. What's that? Is this one of the NGOs that receives a billion and a half kuna from the state budget? Is that one of them? They're bothered by everything that's Catholic. They like to see the church collapse on Palmotic. We got this reporter, I don't see her here, some Bartolovic, 100 devils coming out of her, she's taking money, she's calling the crown, this monster in the Croatian state. I think it writes for "Serbian news" that receives maybe half a million kuna from the state budget. We have Rada Boric, Rada Boric, and she is bothered by the fact that Rada is a doctor worth 20 priests in whom she receives maybe half a million kuna from the state budget. We have Rada Boric, Rada Boric, and she is bothered by the fact that Rada is a doctor worth 20 priests... Shut up, Maras. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] 20 priests. Let's talk about the data. Where were those great civil rights defenders when I lay the disease, wounded in Split, when the halls were full of wounded, and the nuns of the hospital would take care of Mr... Where were they? [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] No, that's where they let those winds in the cafes in Zagreb, they didn't do anything. General cuisine, 1000 meals Caritas, 1000 meals, all, almost all home for homeless Catholic church caritative things do from Split to up, it's just a small drop in the sea of everything. All the hospitals in America were built by the Catholic Church, six hundred of them. I can talk like this all night. Let's move on. Germany, the Catholic Church, the largest private employee, half a million employees, sent money to us during the Homeland War. Croatian missionaries in Africa are at risk every day. They're there in Tanzania, in the Congo every day, waiting for them to be executed if they may be victims of cannibalism. Where are your feminists? What they're not going to North Africa, to Magreb, and they're talking about this mutilation of women's sexual organs, about children down there, they're sitting there, and they're blowing our brains out, and they're, they're with us. There are no vaccines against them, nor will there ever be. What... can continue here Croatian Catholic missions that gathered Croats out there, preserved our collective identity, memory and sent millions of dollars here during the war, and now these two-legged, these, these moral tifusars, anti-fake kran. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] They secretly call for the collapse of the Croatian state, don't kid themselves, they're here with us, they're sitting here with us, but they're disguised, they're disguised. And those heads are just waiting for the Croatian state to go to waste and they're playing the Democrats of Cosmopolitans, and you'd prefer some if you were at stake because there you know everything down there and we know what happened to the files, the files of your associates and your predecessors, if half a million had come down to, went to Belgrade to g on... And there, that's where their files are sitting because they've been working for the secret services of another state and we're playing these Democrats. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] When that comes to an end I don't know, I might have suggested, and I forgot colleges, Oxford, Bologna's oldest university in Europe, the Catholic Church. You're fighting a war, today they're fighting a war against civilization and the Republic of Croatia, they hate... Perhaps I would suggest this when, when they come out of other people's apartments where they broke in after half of Zagreb was killed, on a scale down from Dubrovnik down to Flower Square, they live in other people's apartments, they're great. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] These Croats had to pay their synapses, travel, to have children school outside, yet they're doing well, and they've created a debt at the expense of emigrants, for them the moral tifusars of the juzoboids are always good. When they come out again, when the sun passes this, this, they'll come out like rats from the den, then we can take the canader, holy water, holy salt and... It would smoke to the Slovenian border, that would be what I think to Hiroshima, to see a mushroom there to the Austrian border. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] It may be one rescue for these heads, we don't have vaccines, but we have to realize that when someone's saying something, check what they're saying, you have more liars, it's better to have a lie detector than a Kalashnikov and ask who's telling you. Some have been baptized on the fork and are now carrying the cross around their necks here, the medal of St. Benedicta, The act and the free can quote the Holy Scriptures. [[Intruder: Thank you, time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180374	I thank Glasnović, the esteemed. Representative Veljko Kajtazi is the next statement of the position of the Club of Representatives of National Minorities. Here you go. I'm sorry, Agent Kajtazi, representative of Maras's breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180375	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Article 238, I am sorry that people in such a difficult situation at home have to listen to the nonsense spoken by Mr. Glasovic. I'm sorry you're not responding. So he personally attacked Mrs. Bartolovic, Mrs. Rada Boric, the entire profession of our fellow citizens who are currently fighting this monster and I think we should react. So hate speech in the Croatian Parliament should not be tolerated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180376	Time. Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure Mr. Glasnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180377	The hate speech wasn't, the truth hurt, and I know Mr. Maras. He has been vaccinated against the truth, and he confuses people. They know who young Lenin is here. [[/Stain Sanader: Which article?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180378	Well, there was no breach of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Katezi, the esteemed representative, come in. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure esteemed representative Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180380	Your Honor, it's not an injury I'm looking for a break on behalf of the club to consult on this one. Can't I talk about the subject? Then I apologize. Because this is what you said or not, this is hate speech.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180381	We are going to the 3rd debate, the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns and Representatives Zeljko Glasnović and Zlatko Hasanbegovic, a respected colleague of Hrvoje Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180382	Dear President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Is there an EU today? I would dare say that there is no more, because it was the EU's main value of free movement of people and goods. Today, if you wanted to go to any European country, you would have to cross a line that was not long ago. So, there was this scenario that I first felt on my skin when we went to visit the Bleiburg Croatian victims this spring when the Austrians stopped us at the Slovenian-Austrian border. Today, this limit that has not existed, or existed for decades, has once again existed. The European project collapsed as a map tower. Not only have the borders been reintroduced, and they were the most important, so their disappearance was at all the most important for the existence of the EU, but European solidarity has also disappeared. Here, we hear today from our Prime Minister that the EU will help all EU members with, what, 36 or 38 billion euros in total, the Republic of Croatia will like something more than a billion euros. Just for small comparisons, America, the US Central Bank is helping US federal states with two thousand billion dollars, two thousand to 36 or 38 billion. So, the European project is over here, if he's going to experience catharsis and change, I doubt it. That one selfishness, in fact, of all European countries, has shown itself today in action. This is not about sovereignty or that suddenly the presidents of the government or the presidents of the states became sovereigns, but they simply began to look selfishly at their own interests, not that of the global European interest. Here I also have to ask one question to all those who are watching, and in fact to all the media and the Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic. What was agreed on at a semi-secret meeting between the Prime Minister and the editor of Croatian media, meaning the main media in the Republic of Croatia that took place two weeks or 10 days before the introduction of measures by the civilian headquarters? I don't know what the deal is. What we hear, some news leaks that even the Prime Minister allegedly promised financial aid to the media in view of all the measures or the crisis that has occurred and will happen. Do we have media objectivity today? Well, we never did. The media has always been in the hands of the ruling. But today after a meeting like this, after an open offer, we only now see that we have one autocracy that we no longer have democracy at all, even in the tracks. So, from this place I ask to be told exactly, not to me, but to the Croatian people, which has been agreed, what was the offer on the table by the Prime Minister and how the media behave today according to the meaning of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, will there be any critical view of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and of all the measures that both the Government and the crisis headquarters are taking? I'm not gonna say the measures are bad, but let's watch them critically, let's see if I can be better. We're very lucky that the first infected in the Republic of Croatia didn't happen the way it happened in Italy. If we had a script that was worse than Italian. We're lucky Italy was cannon meat. This is not thanks to any measure of civil headquarters or civil protection headquarters, nor to the measure of the Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, nor to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, except a coincidence that Italy has endured the first and main burden of defending Europe against the coronary epidemic. These are facts that need to be highlighted. And I'm going to point out here and remind myself, on February 5th, I was speaking and warning the Croatian government that there was an epidemic of coronaryvirus, they didn't do anything, they didn't do anything. At the time there were more important elections in the HDZ, only that was said. And interesting, interesting coincidence, let's pull the parallel a little bit. When were the measures introduced? When were they introduced? What day? Right after the HDZ elections ended. It was more important to finish this than to introduce measures in good time, so we protected additional Croatian space.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180383	Representative Zeljko Glasnović will hold a position on behalf of the Croatian Representatives' Club and Independent Representatives Zeljko Glasnović and Zlatko Hasanbegovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180384	Thank you, Mr. Grmoy, Mr. Petrov. Here, this one says, a Chinese proverb that is suitable for us today says this, "A far water won't save a burning house."and that's where we think of the EU. What can we expect from the EU? There is now a debate on the introduction of this stability mechanism, the EU mechanism, the issue of long-term bonds, which some members want, some will not, what will it be? But in the end, one thing is certain, that each member will bear the risk of debt and will have to settle his debts. We have to save ourselves. Now of course, this debate is being held, this package of measures to save the economy. We all know, layman knows, a man with two strokes that we have to save small and medium entrepreneurship. It's the spine of the economy. We all know that, but there's a misunderstanding here. What about tourism? The tenants who took loans to rebuild the facilities, they, they want to pay taxes, and there's no income. How long will that take? We don't know. Will there be subsidies for these people? We know that Turkey, it provides subsidies for flights. A tourist comes in his underpants in Turkey and directs through the supply chain from domestic producers all domestic sales are made, from vegetables to suits. What's going to happen to us, we know because it's obvious there won't be any tourism here, the way things are going. Some countries predict the peak of the crown until June. What happens to us by then, we have to take care of ourselves. Another Chinese proverb that says this, uh, "The dog that barks isn't well-roasted." What does that mean? That means good preparation for us, good performance. How will these economic measures be implemented? How? In the field. We have examples already from China, there's already a crisis, we think, there's still no other wave of infection. Who knows which viruses will come from the east yet. But they've already started mixing some there, there, already the mixers on state subsidies, falsifying records, expenses, etc., only China compared to us has a very easy solution for corruption. That means a wire of eights and a bullet at the Seongsan Stadium. And with us as long as we have, and now this is the time, I must say, we must prepare ourselves for the implementation of this on the ground, these economic measures, when it's voted for them, what will they do, where is the implementation mechanism on the ground? It's an important thing. Now it's time for these, the Ministry of Finance, the tax administration and all other institutions to see how many of these companies are out of one employee. We remember these competitions where they got people for suspicious careers, they got a contest. It's time to see it, now's the time. Today, the same thing was said about bank accounts outside. So is it time for us to see who's got the bank accounts out there, everyone's home now. Whoever has the bank accounts outside, more than 70 grand of this kuna. And now it's time for that fiscal, now we're talking about the fiscal tightening of the belt, but we could have done it all before. I wonder now, is there, is there going to be any revisions at all where these went from subsidies to agriculture and shipbuilding sites? Now hope, two go to jail, the DORH has now prescribed this BOLO for them, those two Dripslavas from the Oilies. It's easy to wave. You know what to do with other people's globs. But state money. How do you spend state money? So the company, if you run the company, it's not constructive, what's going on? It's good if it's your private, but that's where it's been spent, that's where this state's money was thrown, I'd say as a drunk billionaire out there in Las Wages, that's what's got to end it. This and another thing for diaspora, the Croatian diaspora, here, now a consulate has appeared in Perth to collect money from the diaspora, and now diaspora here, 16 billion kunas come to a minimum, but some people have cut them off and the bridges have long burned with the diaspora and again we ask for help from them that she has sent here, 100-thins, 100 million of this EUR, dollars of Australian, Canadian, US for the rescue of the Croatian state in war and pay, and we have at 2.3 how many representatives we have here for the Croats from BiH and the diaspora and again we ask for help from them. Some have no cheeks, I don't know what happened to those in Perth over there, I think he was in SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180385	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180386	Now it is up to the club of representatives of Croatian sovereigns and independent representatives Željko Glasnović and Zlatko Hasanbegovic, Mr Hrvoje Zekanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180387	Today, humanity is faced with one of the greatest crises ever, as all world politicians and world statesmen say, the greatest crisis since World War II, and in an economic sense, some of them compare it and say it is bigger and stronger than World War II because there is no country on the globe of Earth that is not faced with today's crisis, caused by an epidemic of the coronary virus, there is no, so there is no state. The whole world is in crisis. And now I'm interested in whether the Croatian government knew, saw what was going on in China 3.5 months ago or should we say 3 months since the New Year? All the media talked about some virus, they talked about the number of dead, about the number of infected, but no one in Croatia has taken any action, but not only in Croatia, but it is not in Iran, which is extremely affected, nor in Russia, nor in Great Britain, Italy, Spain, France. The entire EU has looked and done nothing to protect itself from this crisis. And now I'm interested or I'm going to ask one question that's logical, or is it that all of the world's statesmen have completely, completely, completely failed globally, or did this crisis just have to happen? Is it possible that Croatia has failed? Possibly. We've done a hundred questions in the world so far, and we haven't responded how we should have reacted. But is it possible that these other countries that I've listed the most developed, state-of-the-art countries in the world were so indolent and indifferent to this crisis that they didn't do anything? I have to admit it's a little bit of a pain in the ass. I get the feeling when I'm looking at this situation today, these numbers, and everything that's going on, it's like someone wanted what's going on today to happen. I don't see the creator of this story as still thinking, and I hope the result of this situation is purely irresponsible, not the concern of the world's statesmen, and maybe it isn't. And I think it's legitimate to ask that question, extremely legitimate that we all ask ourselves. As for the measures proposed by the government that should save us, at least Croatian entrepreneurs, the good measures are most of them, although I have one fantastic play again. We have entrepreneurs who are getting out in front of the cameras and all entrepreneurs are singing praises to the Ministry of Finance, the Croatian Government never measured better, entrepreneurship was saved, but nobody says those measures could have been announced 15 days ago when that first package of measures was and that today they would not have tens of thousands of employees at the Employment Office. And it could have been done that way 15 days ago, and it wasn't done. Why? I would dare say here that there is certainly one shortsightedness of the Croatian government and one extremely poor assessment and no understanding of this moment, definitely that is it. As far as agriculture is concerned, we Croatian sovereigns have always stressed that agriculture is a key portfolio for Croatia, for every country and of course for our country Croatia. And I am sorry to hear that many Croatian farmers today cannot place their products in Croatian centres in Croatian shops because these centres are full of import products. And it's amazing to me that the fact that I heard yesterday from several milk producers that they're going to have to spill milk because they have surpluses that I can't place, and on the other side of the store, they're full of imported milk. It is simply not acceptable, not only now but ever, regardless of what we are in the open market simply Croatia must take care first of all of its manufacturers.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180388	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180389	We are now going to the 4th debate, a respected colleague of Hrvoje Zekanovic on behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns and Independent Representatives Zeljko Glasovic and Zlatko Hasanbegovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180390	The honourable speaker of the assembly, respected colleagues and colleagues of Croatian sovereigns have always represented the view that every Croatian citizen no matter where he is must have the ability to vote. And here, first of all, we're thinking of an electronic vote. By ruling or specifically, I will now say the name and last name Andrej Plenkovic is not for that option, he did not want it, he did not want it, and he does not bother to allow every Croatian, every Croatian to vote no matter where he is. But now it's revealed now that it can be done very quickly and very simply. It's always been the main argument of those who weren't for an electronic vote, but it's traditionally with boxes where you can always make which malversion, those who do and how they know how to do it. Their main argument was that it was technologically difficult and demanding, and now we have in a few days I'll even say in a few hours an e-pass system where 440,000 citizens are so far, so to date, and probably more requested an e-pass and got a pass. Those who didn't have the conditions didn't get it and it worked. So we have shown that in a few days the state can allow every citizen of our country of Croatia to receive a pass through electronic systems or we could allow every citizen to vote from anywhere in the world because this right is guaranteed by the Constitution. He is not guaranteed the right to a pass, the Constitution guarantees him the right to choose and be chosen, and no one takes care of it, or leads, to make sure that it does not happen. So take care not to allow anyone to vote at will. This isn't all. We also have e-school, 320,000 elementary schools, 150,000 high school students, 150,000 students, 50 thousand professors, here I will roughly 650 to 700,000 people today in the e-school system daily communicates and everything works, children get grades or are evaluated, teachers evaluate them and things work. And if we take these with e-passes, we see that the whole country is networked, and we're not talking about e-procuring food now, when today our citizens can and are doing it at all times getting food with the help of electronic systems. We've also got an e-record that's a little bit of an appointment I heard, but let's just say that it works at least partially as far as the courts are concerned. So we have daily millions and millions of electronic documents that are used because they can be used because in this situation it's an estimate that they bring us good. Not only in this situation, and when it comes to voting, when everyone should get the opportunity to vote at any time in any place, then the situation is different. Why is that? Here are the Croatian sovereigns asking questions and asking for this to be introduced. And you're giving an answer whether this is because it's technologically difficult and demanding or it's someone else's cause. There is no reason why this is technologically difficult because they have seen that in just a few days a system has succeeded. But someone doesn't want to, they're trying to make this form, the form of democracy impossible.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180391	Just a little colleague Zekanovic, colleague Glasnović, please don't yell, go outside and have a fight, but don't argue here. Here's my colleague, Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180392	My dear colleague, Glasovic, apparently hit the right topic when my friend, my colleague and Glasovic, reacted. So here you can see this example of how unfair our system really is, how much he doesn't really want that true democracy, but actually the most appropriate situation of the day is for him. So we have a civil protection headquarters of a top body that has no electoral legitimacy, no one voted for these people at the end, but today they really are the masters of life and death in Croatia, they really are, and today in Croatia we have a suspension of democracy, we have a parastructure that manages Croatia, and that true democracy with the help of electronic voting, the government doesn't want.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180393	The next statement is on behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns and Independent Representatives Glasovic and Hasanbegovic, distinguished representative Zeljko Glasovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180394	Dear colleagues who have stayed, all who watch this, if this isn't censorship, because whenever this came from the sovereigns immediately censored on HTV and it's hard for us to come out, we were put in the back of this Sally today as black people on the bus in Alabama in 1950, we're not heard, but here I am now, today to congratulate you on the biggest and this Christian holiday and I would point out that charity and charity are starting at home and we can all find someone because we have salaries of good that we can help individually, these funds are also good but I don't believe that this will always come where these funds need to be and let us find someone ourselves and later we can talk about how we're going to share the extra money. What it's about is the economy, the state budget, self-sustainability. Are these measures of the government self-sustainable? What's this gonna look like? Did we even have a surplus in the budget? The second question, when times were better, of course, they were better two months ago than now, we did tighten the belt to an absolute minimum, it would show the same thing, we could have saved for sure. I would say that this, these measures that have been taken, some things have not covered, I personally asked Mr. Maric, he is not optimistic, which is with the tenants, down at the sea in Croatia, from the north to the south who have invested thousands of euros in reconstruction, the facilities, and no income. How will they get rid of it? Will there be enough funds for them? Who nobody's talking about, our biggest ambassadors out there are athletes, not just football players, it's an honor to them, but football is a game. Boxing, for example. It's a matter of life and death. What about little sports? If we spend 0.6% of the budget on our athletes, and we give 1.5 billion kunas to NGOs that work, absolutely most, every honor to individuals, absolutely nothing, where are we? It's coming, it's gone, the Olympics are gone, it's over. It only comes once in a lifetime, that cycle and those people who have spent their whole lives training, working, trying, who cares about it, when I say no sport is a small sport. No sport is a small sport. For example, shooting, people, funding themselves, let's say those clay pigeons, how much a year, they collect their own money, they expect nothing from the state. I think Mr. Matesha is a little too boastful, and he's fine, he's got a helicopter, he's got a private plane, he can drive, he can drive, he's got enough money and other members of the Rotary Club, and ordinary citizens are where they are. What about Croatian veterans, soldiers? A pathological picture was created that all Croatian defenders were parasites. They're almost 300 grand in labor. What's going to happen to them? We take care of them. What's with, some are dying, the average of 51 years, and some are still, when I said working relationship, and others aren't in retirement time yet, so come these critical years, in the '50s, what's waiting for them? Stress, PTSD, oncological diseases, but some are well, and that black propaganda continues, and we're talking about culture on... They're like saints today. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Maybe there are real heads here, which contribute to the cultural space, and that makes me safe, so it certainly isn't Mr. Frljić and others, if it wants to be financed, it's a product on the open market, you sell yourself, let someone else pay me, not the state. What to say in the end. Mirovina, I said pensions. What about the minimum wage? In Germany, the minimum salary of 1500 euros after these, after the give, is around 1100 euros, it is an absolute minimum. We haven't heard anything from the ruling heads that will be with that EU fund. Will there be a long-term bond? But if that's how it's gonna be, how are they gonna split up? You want to share per capital, per state, per GDP? Where do we belong? How much will Croatia get with 4 million inhabitants, the GDP we have, let's say, one Portugal or Spain. We don't know that, and he was right, Mr. Zekanovic, when he was interrupted, we don't know. Now is the chance for the plan, the EU, Marshall's plan, because Croatia, for example, has an average family with four four children, needs a minimum of 12 thousand kuna to survive. We'll see where it goes. And now it's time to cut, if it wasn't before. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180395	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180396	We are going to a second debate, a respected colleague of Hrvoje Zekanovic on behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns and Independent Representatives Zeljko Glasovic and Zlatko Hasanbegovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180397	Dear President of the Assembly, dear colleagues and colleagues. I have already said several times that the Republic of Croatia has been left for mercy and mercy, that the EU is no longer functioning. Some will say, unfortunately, some like me will just realize that it doesn't work because it doesn't work. So, speaking of economic aid, I have already compared the aid given by the Federal American Bank to its citizens, to its entrepreneurs, amounting to 2,000 billion dollars, compared to what the EU is giving. After a few days' strain, the EU approved a 540 billion-euro aid package. Of these EUR 540 billion, the Republic of Croatia is available EUR 100 billion, of course proportionally. But what's important here is to say, it's not a grant. It's money that the Republic of Croatia, if it takes a piece of that money, will have to pay back. It is a loan, it is a loan that we will receive under the conditions prescribed by the EU. Therefore, it is a temporary EUR 100 billion instrument for the protection of jobs and workers. So, let every country manage as well as it can. We are currently two million infected in the world, and the other day we heard from the civilian headquarters, from the Civil Protection Headquarters that the Republic of Croatia is one of the best in the world, I looked at the Internet and it says that the Republic of Croatia of the 200 countries of the world is 62th, by the number of dead and 59th, respectively, and that in the top third, the worst third, so the Republic of Croatia is not the best. So if we compare ourselves to European countries, we have heard comparisons with Italy and France, but we have not heard comparisons with Slovakia, Russia, Bulgaria, Poland, Albania, Romania, which are better than we and who are better at dealing with this crisis than the Republic of Croatia. It's important to know. Furthermore, when we talk about the measures that are prescribed, we abolished the Holy Masses, they are gone, here in the assembly we gather in one way that is allowed, meaning with one social distance: In Međimurje for the factory, one of the factories that has 1,000 employees, by 300 there are in shift without social distance, I am not against it, I am that factory works. I know several construction sites where there are several hundred workers, I'm not against it either, but I think we have double standards, that in some units of local and regional self-government, there are 10-15 people in the offices, on the other hand, when it comes to, for example. Keep the Holy Mass, it's not allowed. Here's just asking one question to see what's going on. Furthermore, I would like that Civil Protection Staff, which received absolute authority in the Republic of Croatia, regardless of which the Republic of Croatia is a parliamentary democracy, that this Civil Protection Staff here, or Minister Bozinovic, gives a report to HS every week because HS has given him the mandate to do what he does during this one transitional period. I am asking the question here to the Civil Protection Staff, and perhaps also to the Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, let him tell us something about how, with the crisis, the coronary crisis, or this epidemic, the pandemic is worn in India with billions and 300 million inhabitants, and there are not so many infected, in Indonesia, in Pakistan, in Bangladesh, in Nigeria, the figures are extremely low, and there are no measures nor social distance, nor health care measures? So we have one question I'd like to hear about why we don't have a death toll on these countries, or a number of infected as many as it is. in Croatia? Maybe it's the method of identifying those patients, but I'd like to hear that explained. And to compare one Swedish or one Danish model with one Croatian model, these are the questions that citizens want to hear, these are the questions that I have asked here, and I would like to get an answer to these questions. Furthermore, I would like to hear here a comment from perhaps Minister Beros on a scientific study that went out to the New England Journal of Medicine saying that from 211 pregnant women in an American clinic without symptoms were even 33, and they were infected with the coronary virus, which would mean that the general population was infected from 20% to 40%. I don't have time, but these are questions that Croatian citizens need to get an answer to.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180398	Now, Mr Zeljko Glasnovic will hold the positions of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns and Independent Representatives Zeljko Glasnović and Zlatko Hasanbegovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180399	Dear colleagues, colleagues, a little sister-in-law who talks to Mr. Grumey here, well, slowly, just a minute, don't talk to you, you shut up, wait a minute, you shut up, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180400	You hear me begging you...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180401	Shut up, buddy, I didn't talk to you, you got something to say, say something out there.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180402	Stop the time for a moment. Excuse me, Mr. Glasnović, I'm sorry. It's Mr. Glasnović and Mr....
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180403	I can say whatever I want, nothing, slowly, turn back time, someone picked me, you didn't pick me out of Vrgorec and your.../incomprehensible/ As far as we've learned from history, we've learned from history that we haven't learned anything from history, it's not Mr. Maric whether it's an insult to the Croatian people that we're paying 33% of Yugoslavia's former debt of $9 billion, we're still serving it, and our war compensation is $36 billion. [[Please don't argue.]] How much, minimum, that's what you keep quiet about, and when I hear this here we're going round and round and we're all big, solidarity is the key thing. And again, I'm gonna tell you who to listen to the scavengers from down there, Mrs. Lower, up there, taking Hamlet out, and we're never gonna get to the point where whoever's leading our country, here's the unionists and solidarity. He won't cut his salary, and here's a file of one he reminds me of.../incomprehensible/... he wouldn't pay himself, he wouldn't cut his salary, but I was out there, the country that worked doesn't matter which one was known, I was in the union, I know what the union is, and that's this, minimum pay, all rights, legal aid if you need it, overtime work, and today we have what we had in the former state where we didn't run that self-government anarchy, not experts and experts, but red directors. Here's the sport in which the sport in Croatia is 0.6% who ran your handball alliance, who ran your tax administration, billions, billions of kuna washed there. Lord and Mr. Maric here on the tax administration, so who's going to watch that implementation plan? I asked the Minister of Economy, Mr. Horvat, who works there, checking out these security people, says it's none of my business, and whose job it is then. Who controls the casinos, how much money is coming out there, what's the Chief Inspector doing, what's it gonna be? How grey is the economy in Croatia, you have.../incomprehensible/... saving companies, it is in the west standard procedure. But when these companies are saved they return gradually, back to the state as the state has betrayed them. What about Agrokora? We don't know yet. Good thing he said, there's a future uncertain, but if we don't tighten the belt to the end, to the last buckle on the belt and don't all of us here solidarity, let's have a little solidarity. Why don't we just cut the pay of Parliamentarians here? What about the Europarliamentaries, those heads up there and now they're criticising the EU. So it's not the EU's fault, it's not Greece's fault, it's Italy's fault, it's the incompetent leadership, and we're back in the circle, it's the same people running us politics and the economy that worked until the '90s. A year. And that's the problem of the Croatian state. Here, one unionist, here's his entire file, wasn't there on a democratic site of some kind, on a one-party system that collapsed like a failed experiment. And we ignore that, false solidarity. I remember a joke I remembered about a snail and I think the people are looking at us like snails. He's got a house on his back, he's solved a residential snail, he's also eating in someone else's garden, he's solved a diet, we're fine, he's just two-sex, we're not two-sex, he can make love with himself, and that's how you watch these mere stories here solidarity, it's false solidarity. And we spit on the Croats in BiH and we're in a hundred million kuna with these people there and it bothers some people here from the former system and their successors who lived half a century in other people's apartments and now look at the state to repair their damages. Let them repair the damage, everyone has a right roof over their heads. But let's not be hypocrites, if there weren't four choir areas in Croatia we wouldn't be sitting here today, I wouldn't be sitting here today receiving the wages and privileges I have today. That's why I'm hoping everything will be best and it'll be better, we'll get out of this, if we don't learn anything now it's time for DOUDI and these other institutions to check out who owns the state property from SCOY, SUBNOR, I know the minimum of one man, and I'm not going to talk about names now. The butterfly bow, nice and smooth gentleman that lawyer from Zagreb, at least took up two state facilities. And we keep our mouths shut about it and act like Democrats.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180404	Thank you very much for being so specific about the weather.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180405	Here we go, colleagues. Let's take a stand. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns and Independent Representatives Željko Glasnović and Zlatko Hasanbegovic, the first representative is Željko Glasnović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180406	Dear colleagues who stayed and colleagues. We heard this today in the litany of amendments, but free amendments if we don't have a field structure, an organization that's going to do it on the ground. And what, we have some taboo topics, that's what I was talking about before. We still don't have retro laws on conversion and privatisation, no affair splits, someone mentioned, we forgot Agrokor, but every state that executes bail out, saving one company, of course... that when that company gets on its feet, it pays off the relationship, the one agreed in the register of the state. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We don't know what's going on here, it's lost in the fog of history, mammalic roads haven't solved the crime in the IRS, and I can talk all night about it, but the core of the problem is with us. I am today afraid to implement these measures on the ground to save the economy. Why am I afraid of that? Because we inherited the socialist system of financial embezzlement and it's proven so and we're spinning around in circles and nobody mentions it, when you mention it here in the Parliament, in the media, you're somewhere like a pork chop at weddings in Saudi Arabia. And the whole system and personnel, said the General Field Marshal of the Supreme Court, Djuro Sesa, that we inherited the entire system and personnel from the former system, but the doctrines don't interfere. I hope, I'm for constructive criticism, we need to restructure the public administration. We'll see now, it's not a problem that someone raised the price of diapers to 5 kunas, but you have companies that are blocked, phantom companies, and we can't, how will you pay if you don't have a digitalization of taxes, for example, if that's not introduced. So far, we've had four centuries to build a system that will be efficient. I know what I'm talking about because I activated two, three units, some of them had 1,500 people. I know how it works and I know what standard procedures are. It's the first part of this exposure. The second part, when I hear this here, when I hear the word "democracy" in the mainstream media. It kind of sounds like an unnatural fornication to me. Who doesn't have the kind of zoophylia, but what do you say here? You have a consortium of investigative journalists, in fact, that, who put China in 176th place, I mean from 180th state, a state that violates the biggest, worst human rights, it's... I will mention again, which is harvesting an organ that holds minorities in the concentration camps, which closes people, which makes total censorship in media space, the Internet platform, shuts down dissidents. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] When I heard it, it was a great honor for some reporters on the portals, when we heard it in the mainstream media and we bought it from them, now how many, 60 tons of equipment, nothing's said about it. Where are those demonstrations of NGOs? Where are they? The Czechs formed one, there was a demonstration when the president of the monolithic communist state went to the Czech Republic, and with us the total torment of NGOs, people from former personnel, former personnel, why that? And why, you know why it is? Because one word is not to be mentioned and that word is Communism. The Chinese Communist Party rules Croatia. And we have a head that was an integral part of that system here whose files were in Belgrade, and it's not even mentioned, and that's taboo of course, but if we're talking about quarantine, I'm going to mention again, quarantine, and some of them have been quarantined, you have two associations of political prisoners who have been in isolation for months, some of them have been given what insulted by the character and the work of the forest marshal, I haven't been on TV recently, in mainstream media to talk about their experiences, in their quarantine, it means these smoke curtains of democracy, it's just a mere story because we inherited not only structures from the former system but one mental heritage and we still suffer from that, it's a kind of psychosis. Croatia, for example, State, now I'm done. Where you get the blessing of the house, there's a priest and there's a second marshal on the window. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180407	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180408	The next Club of Representatives is that of Croatian sovereigns and independent representatives Željko Glasnović and Zlatko Hasanbegovic on behalf of whom the respected representative of Hrvoja Zekanovic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180409	Thank you very much. Every victim is a victim and every victim deserves a full human and Christian pitet. Today we have a memorial in Jasenovac, and when we talk about that site, and also about every other strategy, I must point out that we need to know the full truth. Today, Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, Parliament MPs Veljko Kajtazi and Milorad Pupovac, leaves and heads of state Zoran Milanovic, leaves the entire Croatian-Serbian-Roman coalition in a hard co-habitation with the president of the state of Zoran Milanovic, of course with social distance measures. And I wish all of them, all those participants of this memorial, would finally start to have a proper attitude about some other strategies, for example, About Skabrnj, about Vukovar or about Bleiburg, about the Bleiburg tragedy, but I'm afraid we'll wait a little longer on that. Today is another big day, today is a historic day for HRT. Today is also a historic day for RTV Serbia. For all those who do not know, today April 22, 2020 We will have the same film on the two TVs, on HRT and on RTV Serbia, on HRT and RTS "Dnevnik Diane Budisavljevic" directed by Dana Budisavljevic. Here, I congratulate HTV on this great day. And I wonder if in a few months, when we mark the Vukovar tragedy or maybe something sooner, when the Bleibur tragedy is mentioned, it might be on the TV Serbian programme "Head down, hands behind your back". Well, I'm afraid not. Today is also another big day, and it is about the first democratic multi-party elections in our country, in Croatia. April 22, 1990. The HDZ won, the Croatian Democratic Union defeated and then defeated the Croatian Communists' Union, the SDP, the successor of the Croatian Union, later changed its name to the Social Democratic Party. Today, April 22, 2020. We're marking 30. from the first democratic elections, from the elections when the Croatian people were loud and clear said that for the sovereign Croatia and said we want the Croatian machine shop on the Croatian shoulder so that we can defend ourselves and defend ourselves, but you said we also want the Croatian wallet in the Croatian pocket. We want the Croatian Kuna. And today, today the HDZ, a different HDZ, is not the HDZ, it wants to introduce the EURo at all costs and forgets what was the historic wish of the Croatian people and the ancient 1990s. I have to point out here that in 1990, Celebrated in my family, celebrated in the Zekanovic family. And it didn't work out for some, so that morning after the democratic elections, someone tried to kill my family. Just as some in this home did not respond when I called the ruling coalition Croatian-Serbian, today and Roma, a trade coalition, and then tried to attack my family house a few weeks ago. But the Croats are used to that stuff. I want everyone, all those who, who have a 1990 memory, to remember those times and how they felt. Let them remember those true desires for sovereignty, for the sovereign Republic and think about whether there is today in the ruling set and in future partners, the SDP, even if it is the desire for true legal sovereignty that we need in these times.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180410	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180411	The next is the distinguished representative Željko Glasnović, on behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns' Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180412	Dear colleagues. All this speculation about this crisis now is something that we know we don't know anything about. We don't know when this is going to end, the economy is collapsing, unemployment at global level, what the European Central Bank is going to do, we don't know, we're still fighting. We have Europe at two speeds, the first speed is south, and the second and third is these northern EU countries Germany, etc. We don't know what's gonna happen. Recently a joint G20 has refused actually creditors have personally rejected the request of the G20 group to help poor countries, we do not know what will happen. What will look like after this business models, what unemployment will be, which GDP decline, we can now guess something, but we don't really know what we can do, what we do first, we need to protect the health of Croats, the citizens of this country, and we need a financial injection of these small and medium-sized enterprises right now because they are the backbone of every economy, in normal countries, they are 80% taxing the state budget and we see how many people work in public administration. Well, look, the unions are rebelling, but if 70 and a few percent of Croatian citizens think they should cut in the public sector, let them cut but of course not with these critical, these institutions. Of course, health care, teachers, etc. I'd talk about something else, it's not about this, but at the same time, now is the time to learn true history, not the one we've been listening to for 50 years and listen to these days. Because history is a branch of science and not said-saying, I think so many lies are written on the jujuportals that the lie detector would fall apart and there spread also nebuloses, I would say, campaign disinformation unrelated to the past, not so recent past. Today, too, we are still looking at the effects of this system, e.g. We're looking at unresolved property-law issues, unsettled land, I don't know who then agricultural land, hundreds of thousands of hectares, etc., these are all the consequences of the former system. Some people, they mention revisionism. What's auditism? Well, everyone, that left, those juonicists took over the jargon as well. The revision is the spine of every science's audit. That means every new discovery is open to interpretation. I wonder, are these cemeterys around Zagreb, Zapresic, is this a history review? It's new evidence of that criminal regime some are defending here. Evidence. That's what I was talking about this morning. I don't want too much of it. The people here at my club, once Grandpa was gone, he was killed by red cameras, his grandmother told him, his grandmother said, "Listen, if anyone asks you about did, say he died in a vein operation in Belgrade." Once the uncle was killed, here in the city schools here in Zagreb, half the students were fatherless and that's them. Yesterday, two forgeries were shown historically on HRT, she had no connection, she was Dnevnik, Miss Budisavljevic, she was not saving those goat children, but the Ustasha government was saving those children and the Catholic Church and that's the historical truth. You have here by Nikica Baric document, history and you are not a historian but some of you were bad doctors and bad psychologists. That's why we are today, we repeat the same mistakes. I'm always for constructive criticism, I'd like to go back to the first beginning of this speech, we should now already form a commission where not only epidemiologists and health professions are involved, these business leaders but also other people, technical sciences, and we are already starting to collect learned lessons and to see what will be at least by the end of this year and to apply it on the ground. I'm just for work, not for nebuloss, for stories, I've offered myself to the Ministry of Defense, I'm at my disposal, I've run three choir areas, I know how the system works, I know what's centralised... What's a performance, I know how to assess the combat preparedness and willingness of certain institutions and let's end this crisis first, then we'll solve this second one, and now it's time to get rid of these nebuloses from the past because we've listened to this Partizan truth long enough. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180413	Thank you. Here's how I announced, break by 14:30, thank you. It's 1:00 P.M.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180414	We're going to another debate. Dear counterpart Hrvoje Zekanovic, on behalf of the Croatian Representatives' Club and Independent Representatives Glasovic and Hasanbegovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180415	We've heard countless times that we're in a major health and economic crisis, and we've all remembered that, and we've heard that we're going to have to do financial cuts, and that neither sport is going to get the money he's been getting, and there's going to be a pay cut for public sector workers who work in the country, even health workers are probably on the wallpaper, and no matter what they're doing, they're going to cut their wages hard because there's no money. But there's some money for it. So some will be given money regardless of the severity of the economic crisis we are in. Now who's this about? I believe you all know who are untouchable, and the untouchable are members of national minorities although I would not generalise, would nevertheless single out the Serbian National Minority and the concrete Serbian National Council, which was on 21 April, the other day by the ruling of the Government of the Republic of Croatia or the Council for National Minorities, receive no less than 43 million kuna. Now let's move on, the Serbian National Council just won that 4.537.000 kuna. It is not disputed that the Serbian National Minority is getting money for some cultural projects, but let's see what it is, or what projects they got the money for. For example, they got it. 100,000 kunas to mark the uprising in Serbs, the uprising in Serbs. Does the Croatian public know what happened in Serbia and what is being marked and who is marking it? That's the first important question. Secondly, 3,600,000 kuna and a little bit more gets an independent Serbian weekly, or Serbian people's news, the Serbian people's news gets. And do you know which texts, which covers come out of that magazine? What's interesting is what came out in the last magazine has a fantastic title that I have to read here "At the time of the epidemic abortion even more inaccessible" and then the author of the article about SNV is disgusted by what, which every woman can't make a free abortion without any education, without advice, without anything at all. And then they call on the platform for reproductive rights, they are appalled and they say, unfortunately, as many as 8 of the 29 approved health institutions cannot carry out an abortion on demand or get information whether it is done at all. And this is now very interesting to me that there are Andrija Plenkovic, who is also for abortion or therefore pro-choise, also here in agreement with the Serbian National Council or with a magazine on the issue. Very interesting. I must stress here that Croatian sovereigns are the only ones who have surrendered to the procedure of the Croatian Parliament of Life Protection Act, of course this law will not see the light of day because the president will not put it. Unfortunately, there are not enough signatures because all a few MPs have signed for the law, with the wave of Croatian sovereignty and almost no one else, no one from HDZ has, of course, signed there. What I still have to mention here is a crazy situation related to schools, another topic, but very interesting, bizarre, that our very good Minister Divjak today says to parents of children who go to kindergarten or who are in preschool education or in classrooms to decide whether to send children to school, so there will be a maximum of 10 children in each class, and the other children will be at home. I really don't know how it can be done. I really don't know what standard teachers or ministers will choose children who will enter the class and who will stay at home and how teachers will do double work, he line teaching afternoons, mornings school or vice versa. So either invite all the kids back to school nicely or conclude the school year if they're exceptional circumstances, they're extraordinary, and in the event of the school program, you can get a little crowded material and things done. And finally, only one interesting thing I have to look here briefly at Mrs. Shuic who corrected the incorrect quote of viewers on Dubrovnik television, so she doesn't have EUR 7 million in assets, but has EUR 5 million in assets.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180416	Dear colleagues and colleagues, here we go. We can sit down and see who needs to sit down and get out and get back to work. ... You can listen to the statement on behalf of the club. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] The first reported for a position on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Sovereigns and Independent Representatives Željko Glasnović and Zlatko Hasanbegovic, and will speak on behalf of the club, respected representative Zeljko Glasovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180417	Dear colleagues and colleagues who stayed. I would warn you here and, of course, the people who are watching this so that we can get rid of one selective amnesia and that memory, is this current crisis all seem to be clouded and we've forgotten everything, all the lessons learned from the Homeland War on. In this crown hysteria we hear the words privacy, human rights violations, democracy, but as we already live in one single totalitarian system at global level, all the basic data of people who have facesbook pages are on Google etc., you have accounts, credit cards, sim cards, Internet banking, people who do intelligence work to you can look at your paperwork... what paper, see your accounts. It's very easy to create someone's profile of false, etc., we forget, this didn't begin now this quarantine, but the violation of these personal fundamental rights to privacy has begun long ago and it continues. You have surveillance cameras. China only bought 349 million surveillance cameras in 2018, some put them in front of apartments, etc. When will he be here? It's already here. You have this facial facial recognition now, you have this technique, you have surveillance cameras reading faces up to 600 meters, it's already coming. I'm curious about what the Croatian police have to do with what database, critical data, that's what I'm interested in? What information do they have? There's talk of apps for smartphones mobile surveillance, that's all that's happened before, it's happening today. Who's on the phone today at HS? Does the State's Attorney's Office know that? Is that a secret, and when are we going to know that information? What is the future for us and for the world? What will it look like in a year until this riddle is solved? Will there be immunological passports for some people to prove that they were either vaccinated or that they were over the crown, that they had immunity? What it's gonna look like, we don't know. But 80% of wars are information that the Croatian state has information? What's he doing with that information that we don't have a functioning state today, we forget it. What about reviewing privatisation and conversion? Bank accounts out there, we'll forget all that. The elections are coming quickly, but after the election, there will be one difficult sobering because we have not yet created one functional state. We're going to play democracy, and we're actually living in a deep, deep-seated state. It can be easily proven, not waved with these papers as a maniac here, it's none of your business. We still live in the deep state of that, we used to have this quarantine, we had people listening in at the post office, go to the post office and ask the people who live there who's been listening to the phones. What about the archives of the SKH microfilms that went to Belgrade? In May of the 1990s she went down, now it's an anniversary, today is the anniversary. Before there was immunological discrimination she was, but only if you were immune to everything, but if you were in the party you were immune to everything, you should just be in the party having a party book. You don't know anything about that. You had cells in sports clubs, comfort cells at every level you had in a haustor of two who were following what was going on, what was going on. Well, actually, the surveillance was bigger than it is now. I've got thousands of files, I'm a maniac with that, I'm waving this thing, I could stick the whole Assembly with these files. Nobody cares about that, and now we're worried about it. Imagine those heads that have violated human rights in the worst way, today great democracies and cosmopolitans are rebelling against the crown of quarantine. Pure hypocrisy. I would only point out today we have these directors killed in Borovo Selo, Bljesak, but I would only mention, today is Legion Day, some died by legionaries, they fought for the Croatian state, there are Croatian generals who came from the legion. Today is their 30.4., here is some name Tomislav Linder, Michael Surovic, Ante Lukotic, died for the Croatian state. How many wounded, missing? We don't know any more thanks to them, either, to these officers who gave their lives to the Croatian state, which we haven't yet... until the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180418	We will now move on as every Wednesday to the club's position, Croatia's Zekanovic representative is first in line on behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns and Independent Representatives Glasović and Hasanbegovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180419	Dear colleagues and colleagues, the Honorable President of the Assembly, the elections for the Croatian Parliament, the parliamentary elections, Croatian sovereigns are for the unity, because the community has no alternative. When I say community, I mean the unity of all sovereign, patriotic and Christian forces, political forces in Croatia, or those politicians who agree to these clear principles. When I talk about elections Croatian sovereigns are ready, no problem, let's go as soon as possible, we've caused elections many times and this time we challenge. But I don't understand how the rulings are going to hold elections in the 11th constituency. Since many countries will not reduce measures to counter the pandemic of the coronary virus, how will people, the Croatian emigration that had to leave either long ago or recently the state because of the bad policies of all possible governments in Croatia, how will these people be able to vote? It doesn't matter where, is it Argentina, is it Brazil, is it Germany, is it Ireland, Spain, France or BiH. How all these people will be able to vote if in their countries there are still measures in place, such as those. Today in Croatia? We see that the Government of the Republic of Croatia intends to reduce measures in Croatia. So this is the question of the Constitutional Court, this is the question of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, this is also the question of the Civil Protection Headquarters. There's a solution, the solution is very simple, and it's an electronic vote. This can be done, to vote with the help of the computer, using mobile phones, e-passes have been introduced in just a few days. Why don't we bring that in? If that's not what we're going to introduce, let's introduce what he's got, for example. Austria, a letter vote, so every Croat wherever he lives, I don't know that Australia, the Shiroki Brijeg or Munchen, should send a letter and vote for his candidate or candidate in these elections. It can be done. So here I doubt regularity. With the fact that I have to comment here on how the elections here will be held no matter what, as well as measures to suppress the coronary virus, only when they ended up in the HDZ party elections. So, you're going to risk absolutely everything. But here I have to mention one very important thing, so what repeating is the mother of knowledge. For all those who are trying to present themselves today as Christian Democrats or Democrats, dear voters do not forget who did not want to introduce the law to protect life in our country, nor the SDP, but neither is HDZ. The law still stands at the bottom and doesn't think of it as the president of the assembly, behind my back, never put it in the process. Also, don't forget who introduced Istanbul, don't forget who introduced the Marrakech Agreement, and when some today try to show themselves as a great patriot and defend the defenders in this case, which is commendable, don't forget that they are the same, and I mean with my head and chin Andrej Plenkovic, but also his friend Zoran Milanovic, the main advocates of Serbia's entry into the EU, unconditionally, unconditionally. So they are the main advocates of Serbia's entry into the EU, without solving an open issue. Finally, one extremely current thing, one extremely current question. We hear that Minister Divjak, a great minister who has done experiments not on rabbits but on our children, intends, deliberately in agreement with Andrej Plenkovic now to send children to schools next week, in part. Oh, my people, close the schools, close the school year. It's simple in 2021 or '20-21. School years can make up for anything. Don't play games now, don't create an illusion of normal condition, let the material shrink a little bit, let's do some rhythms, let's work on Saturdays, let the whole next school year make up for what's missed, there are ways, but don't make a play and bring a part of the kids to school and leave them at home.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180420	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180421	On behalf of Croatian sovereigns and independent representatives of Mr. Glasnović and Mr. Hasanbegovic, Mr. Željko Glasnović will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180422	Dear colleagues, we remember today, of course some would ban the memory and erasure of collective memory and still here we fool people because we haven't reached the core of the problem. Mr. Bull, our problems didn't start in the '90s. It's '45. A year. I will talk soon about a topic that the media have put on a firewall around the truth and before that, we remember the Croats of BiH who stopped the tanks on the prologue, on Kupres, the columns that were headed towards Croatia. We have forgotten these people today; they have been cut off in some mosque down below; we have not forgotten their sacrifice, and the money they used to give is kept silent. We remember the nurses today, it's their week today, and it's easy for some genetic anarchists, to talk to the Nazis about COVID in 19, and they've never put a box on the head of patients who die, whose hands are tied not to rip the respirator out of their mouths. They're just bluffs, assholes, lovers of themselves. I've seen a lot of heads like that around here. We need to tell the truth. Here, this may be the last time you will hear this in the Croatian Parliament, about these victims, you will not hear it from the original eggs, you know that they did not have Easter, so they painted eggs on May 1, I have this list only shot in Zagreb, thousands and thousands of people, it will be published by the Croatian weekly, only the city of Zagreb, only the city of Zagreb without Dalmatia, like, BiH. These people were shot from the beginning of May as soon as the typhoids entered, those who were salting pork in the bathtub, raised chickens in the piano, entered other people's apartments where they killed people, disappeared old Zagreb where the camp canal, immediately began to kill and how those courts worked. This is a list of, of course, the death sentence of the Military Court, a piece of the city of Zagreb, immediately began firing, immediately. This is blocked in the mainstream media and all we're doing is... If we don't remember that, it's a question of not history, of present and where we are today and a lot of you don't have the moral right to sit here and keep quiet about this, I'm not gonna keep quiet about this. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here, the evidence wasn't necessary, the decision was made to hang or shoot on the basis of a free estimate, which means you want someone else's apartment, someone else's wife, here's just some names and theirs. It's from May 12, 1945 to 1946, there, like this, I'm just gonna read women every year. Alma Zamola 23 years old, Nada Dovčeg 24, Marija Slamić 22 years old, Paula Šiber 25 years old, Ankica Tomašić 22 years old, Paulina Horvatić 24, Marija Milić 36 years old, Ankica Paša 22 years old, Marija Vunetić 43 years old, Floria Rabić 29 years old, Ankica Frankić 17 years old, 17 years of communists mine, Marija Iveković 33 years old, Valeria Paradjik 28, Lina Foter is not known to be the name or where he was buried, and you have re-arranged the Croatian cemetery in Mirogoja, you are too big today, Antonija Kozić 36 years old, Renat Berger 47 years old, Ankica Skocković 21 years old, Victoria Buljan 24 years old, Kristina Klimar 40 years old, Zor Grbas 19 years old, Milica Padovan 41 g. 24 years old. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's what you're thinking today. That's where you sit here and keep your mouth shut about it. This is all a big trick, we're ruined by the '90s. the same time you moved to this country and played cosmopolitans and Democrats. I wish we had cleaned you with an iron broom in '95. Sir, we made you an iron broom. There are some such Christians sitting there, and they have made an alliance with... Satanists and keep quiet about it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's all a trick. The cross on the wall, Tito on the window.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180423	The next Club of Representatives is that of Croatian sovereigns and independent representatives Željko Glasnović and Zlatko Hasanbegovic on behalf of whom the respected representative Željko Glasnović will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180424	Thank you, Vice President. I would just point out that the word I used earlier is the Greek word from ancient Greece, the word "idiotes", that means that an idiot is a man who will not engage directly in a democratic process, and every time someone tries to distract me when I'm taking my stand, the people I represent here, then I used that one word, it doesn't apply to the intellectual ability of an individual. So much for that. It ends the coronary crisis soon in some countries, in some countries it has not yet reached its peak, despite all these ringishipil experts on the Internet, etc., in fact no one knows how this will end. We can hope for the best, but before that, the heads of the debate would express their condolences to the families of the dead pilots, and if everyone worked, of course, it's not perfect there as the Ministry of Defense, we'd be at the top because it's the army and always the army, but we must bear in mind that, too, I was in three armies, every exercise had been killed and wounded. One time the sergeant told me, actually, the water commander says in the exercises up to 10% of the losses are allowed. Now after the crown comes sobering, how will Croatia survive, now we are on that wave, we see the government announced the elections in July, what will it look like after the election is called? There are half a million social cases in Croatia. Social cases, half a million, watch out, that's what, 1/4 labour force, 1/4 labour force. How are we gonna fill out the state budget? We have a few incomes, said economist Mr. Maric, of the 122 billion kuna, we have 4,000 employees for a certain time, which is almost 3 times the euro average. And what we did when the IMF warned us not to worry enough about workers, we didn't do anything because the two parties were changing the power here, the two parties. And we're where we've been, somewhere in 2000 and some years. The Peace Fund, how are we gonna fill that out? 16 billion come here from a minimum of Croats outside the country, what's that going to look like now? That's 16 billion that's registered through the CNB, what's it going to be. 1.2 works, 1 retired, it's unsustainable. Outside where the ratio is 4:1, where the population is actually, it's unsustainable. This is an illusion, we have to pull out surgical cuts that are going to hurt very, very badly and I'm afraid that no party that has now ruled here since 2000 has the power to do such a thing. We're being lied to, we just need to read two sources of open information. Here, Financial Time, The Economist and you'll see the front page yesterday, the European zone, the stability of the fall... says he's threatening stability not only of the euro zone, but of the total collapse in the economic output. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And we have a two-speed Europe today. Someone pushed us into the Western Balkans, which pie Croatian voters when we joined the EU that we would be in the Western Balkans, for me the border of Drina Balkana is Drina, not only our mental set but no one asked Croatian voters that no one had asked them for a referendum that was rejected, these last referendums. We have other news, private creditors have rejected the request of G20 of the expensive countries to ease the debt to poor countries. We don't know what's gonna happen in Africa, what's gonna happen in the Far East, in the Middle East. Lebanon is on the verge of hunger and we live in one I would say to the isolated world, I hope better must be but therefore needs guidance, vision and concrete measures and not smoke curtains. Who will invest in a country where laws change every two years and what is the average cycle of business? Ten years, five years? There's no one coming, we need to get our heads out of the hole like an owl and accept what's coming and it needs guidance and vision.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180425	We are going to the 2nd debate, representative of Hrvoje Zekanovic on behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns and Independent Representatives Glasovic and Hasanbegovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180426	Croatian sovereigns are for the unity of all the patriotic Christian sovereign forces, or all the political forces that agree with these clear principles, all the forces. All those who are not for the common people will be punished, the Croatian people will punish them, and this has also proved for the past European elections that those who have not been together have been punished. And the people will again reward those who are for unity, uncompromising unity, not love, not armchairs, to one community, to what the Croatian people want. Anyone who is against community is solely for what is currently happening in Croatian politics, it is exclusively for this political agenda of HDZ and SDP. Both HDZ and SDP alone responds not to create a strong alternative in this part of the political spectrum. For the first time, however, the Croatian people will have the opportunity to vote for a truly patriotic sovereign Christian alternative, and the Croatian people will know how to use it. Today we're going to talk about budget rebalancing. Here, I'm going to have a little prejudge before the debate itself because it is very important that the Croatian public hears this several times. I have pointed out several times from this pay phone that the EU has fallen apart and has really fallen apart. We have re-established borders, everyone looks at themselves, there is no more European solidarity, and the Croatian state has received from the EU to help up to now 0 kuna, 0 kuna. And now I'm calling Mrs. McNally here. Pussy, Mr. Bacic and the others to deny me. The draft budget rebalancing here clearly says, the revenue plan was 18 billion 756 million kuna for 2020, we're talking about foreign aid, donations from entities within the general budget. And now with the rebalancing we have five hundred million kunas less. Not only is the EU not helping us, but it is distracting us. Then when it's the hardest time for us, she's gone, European solidarity's gone, just the question of whether or not she even existed? I'll say with one great certainty, it didn't exist, and now it's exposed. We have now revealed the EU's policy. And I can't wait for that Minister Maric to come to you and let him defend these numbers for us. Let him explain why, at the time of the most severe crisis, the most difficult economic crisis for the Croatian state, which may be worse than the crisis we had in the Homeland War, the EU has not helped our country Croatia but is devoting it. But regardless of these figures and everything, HDZ decided to go to elections and great. Croatian sovereigns and partners are looking forward to it. They can't wait for this quiet coalition of SDP and HDZ to be removed, but the public Croatian-Serbian trade coalition is delicious. They can't wait. But it's very interesting how Mr. Capak, Beros, Mrs. Until a few days ago, Markotic was said to be the bioterrorist who goes out on the street, and he's self-insulated. And yesterday we hear fantastic statements, not to believe, that you can go to the polls if you wear a mask. Is there anyone crazy here, is there amnesia or is he a bioterrorist? So we have taken measures to contain the epidemic with the coronaryvirus after the HDZ elections because these elections were to be completed, and we will conclude with measures at the time when Andrej Plenkovic assesses, regardless of the health situation in the country, that it suits him because he can achieve a good election result. And finally, just 2-3 words about one sector that's in the hands of the HNS, and it's about education. My people, this is what Mrs. The savage does this not even in the headings “believe it or not. ”
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180427	It is now up to Mr. Željko Glasnović to present the views of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns and Representatives of Glasnović and Hasanbegovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180428	Dear colleagues, fellow Members. Mr. Grmoy was talking about political engineering. It was in the old "Yugha", as it is today, there is nothing changing. I would only remind you that today is the holiday of Lady Fatimska who seeks the conversion of former communists, it is never too late, get rid of Belzebub, Astaroth and Lucifer, move on to Christian faith, it is not too late for you. Like this. Instead of dealing with a solution, a solution to the post-Communist system, the post-Communist system, of course, and the post-Coron crisis, to deal with social issues, to deal with analysis of how to fix the system, the remont system, we deal with, better the past. I have to talk about something today because I am a representative because today I am a representative of this electoral unit that is Croats in BiH. Every May in Croatia comes national masochism, the day of national masochism because we are celebrating the occupation of Croatian mass communist crimes, it is not science but only ideology.../incomprehensible/... we are not talking about.../incomprehensible/... Jugenoid. I am sorry now that it has started, now an anti-Croatian hysteria has been launched in BiH by Bosnian radicals, philocomunists, quasi-preachers and, of course, the Serbian Orthodox Church that operates and the spiritual JNA. As short as our memory is, we don't remember anything. So we haven't learned anything from history. I am sorry that the Israeli Embassy also took part in a controversial mass for the Bleiburg victims. I would recommend to an ambassador in Israel, in Sarajevo that we do not deal with the communists of Jewish origin who participated in the communist terror in Europe from 1917 to '39, we do not deal with them, we do not deal with what is happening to Palestinians in Gaza, we do not do this, for example, 2,000 children died in Gaza for the last 10, 20 years, we do not do that. But when we realize they're all innocent victims, all innocent victims need respect and memory for those victims. History is not an Olympics of suffering, no one has a monopoly on that suffering. No crime justifies another crime. This should be a history lesson and we have totally ignored here as Bosniak unitists and philocommunists in BiH, ignoring all EU resolutions seeking the condemnation of all totalitarian regimes including communism that killed more people than any doctrine in Europe, proven. Every one of these people has a name. Until we appreciate the girl who was starved to death to death in eastern Ukraine in '32. The years of the communists and their comrades and the girl in Treblinka who was executed there, there is no catharsis, every victim is a victim. And they forget those Bosniak unitists about '42. Eastern Bosnia, '92. Eastern Bosnia years. Who's to blame? The Bosniak leadership is to blame for the genocide of that people again in '92. years, etocide, because it's all been repeated all over again, they've forgotten. They forgot that they threw flowers of non-tanks that were moving in Stolic towards Croatia and that the Croats were the first to rise there and that there were no Croats of BiH nor would they become the Federation of BiH, nor the current Croatian state in this form. There is no voice of reason, with everything you have in Slovenia 10 Srebrenica minimum. It's forgotten, forgotten. And I'm just gonna say, what Mr. Maras doesn't have, for our cryptocommunists would have just said this, yes, if Mr. Maras hadn't made love only to this Sophia Loren, etc., but he also made love, his first wife was what I know, the girl Pelagia Belusova was 13 years old, she was 13 years old. According to scientific criteria and social criteria of common sense, it is Mr. Maras and other cryptocommunists pure pedophilia. And what does that mean to me? This will all naturally censor what I'm saying to the.../incomprehensible/... media because there's also the censorship of the same government as it was until the '90s. Only in another form, and that means Mr. Maras and you, the other one, who praises the bloody locksmith, that you are actually just pure political pedophiles.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180429	We are now going to apply for a position on behalf of the club of representatives and independent representatives. The first is Mr Zeljko Glasovic, who will speak on behalf of Croatian sovereigns and independent representatives Zeljko Glasovic and Zlatko Hasanbegovic. Here you go, Mr. Glasnovic. Excuse me, please stop the time. Let Mr. Glasnović speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180430	Dear colleagues and colleagues. Shortly after my knowledge comes the end of this session of the Assembly Parliament of the state, of the Croatian Parliament, I wonder only some rhetorical questions, what have we learned from the past, not so long ago? I'd say the only thing we're learning from the past is that we haven't learned anything from the past... the same phrase, the same lesson failed, and we're spinning in circles and moving the ball from one side of the party to the other. But ladies and gentlemen, you've been in power for 30 years, and some have been longer than '45 and you've repeated the same mistakes. The point of politics is to set priorities. Where are the analyses, I would like to see analyses by ministries, by segments, by institutions. For example, critical infrastructure, you have the city of Rijeka, Kopar, the geostrategic position of Croatia, depends not only on Rijeka, Split, where is this railway? That's what we've been talking about for decades, but we built the Shabac-Belgrade track, there was no road, there was no highway, there was no road, there was no road, there was no road, there was no road, there was no road, there was no road, there was no road, there was a Slavonia straight as a pancakes, 50 kilometers, what was it like to Karlovac, the only highway, and now, where is that money from that former state? It's all gone. I asked yesterday how much money was on the pension fund of the Croatian Republic in '90. For years, no one answered me. I asked how much we paid our former South debt, which was $20 billion in '90. Sir? We got 33%. War damages are $36,000 this dollar, etc. And we didn't learn anything from those analyses. We're talking about agriculture, the hydrant system, that I'm not going, the shipyards collapsed like a bucket, 30 billion kuna, that's what I've been doing 10 times over here. Destroyed cadastre, books, documentation, birth certificates from the former system, total jumbus, 5% land books properly recorded, about what caused it? We treat the symptoms and spin around in circles. Here, go to Slavonia, wonder what about the German minority to which he was performed ethno... Class genocide, 3,000 square miles. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Who's asking these people to come back? They have the means. No one. We know who wanted to go back to the '90s. Sir, we know who wanted to come back, it's silent, we have selective amnesia, selective, we have positive discrimination against Croats in this country. The restoration of public administration, so no state in Europe has such a public administration that does not produce anything. Just expenses, look at other countries, we have more judges per captain than China had there 5th century BC. Kr. We have a whole army, we say in the army we have a system where you only have a tail, and there's no teeth, such a beast, imagine that. Rep... And teeth like squirrels, inefficient legal, management, the judiciary are out there somewhere behind... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And Cabo Verde and we switch, saying, "Why is Slavonia empty, for you have driven the Germans away, because it is empty." [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You never called me back. 500 families have more funds that have been evicted from Banovina Croatia, in Brazil 500 families have no... than the nearest town there, Sao Paolo, Brazil, GDP. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Human rights, what human rights, Dee? Who's this attorney general working for? The Croats are disappearing in BiH, they are hit by these Bosniak unitists, philocommunists, militant atheists, and they rule here. You have "South" miniature BiH. That's why you like... BiH,... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] BiH. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This is the mini 'South'. With them you.../incomprehensible/... Where are the anti-corruption laws? Rewrite, you have a Romanian directorate who formed an anti-corruption directorate at the state level to solve, you have the prescribed laws, just... Freedom of the media, what freedom of the media. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It doesn't exist, you have what on HTV not Open, "Closed," you have total censorship like in the former state, I would now from this pay phone orwell's award to HND, the mainstream media, you know Orwell, dystopia, Oceania, for total censorship, and that you've just become abdominals of the former regime, let's be ashamed, you've formed your own ministry of truth, and that's proof this month that you've covered up all the crimes of that regime.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180431	The next statement of view is the distinguished representative of Hrvoje Zekanovic on behalf of him.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180432	Bleiburg became a metaphor, a metaphor of all communist crimes, the crimes of the winner in 1945 against the Croats. Today, when we say Bleiburg, we mean and think of all those who were killed in both the Bleiburg field itself and Dravograd and the cross road that went, which stretched from the Austrian border or from Austria to all the way to Bulgaria. That sounds amazing, but that's right. 100,000 Croats and Croats were killed in the worst revenge in World War II. No nation in World War II experienced fate like the Croats, not one nation. We often know how to separate ourselves from other peoples, so we're the best at this or that, so it seems amazing. Unfortunately, however, we are first on this matter, and I will say the worst. We are the best at the worst thing, and that is revenge that took place against the Croats and Croats in 1945. A real memory took place, the erasure of collective memory of an extremely large sacrifice submitted by the Croatian people. I would quote John Paul II here, who said: “Freedom and truth either live in harmony or individually are infamous. If we don't have harmony, freedom of truth, we won't have either. And what's best is today no one's even trying to say who's to blame for those crimes that happened, who's to blame for revenge. It's nobody's fault. No one answered for the retaliation of the Croats. For hundreds of thousands of people who ended up in pits all over the former Yugoslavia, there is no culprit. And today, unfortunately, there are spiritual heritage and former criminal communist ideologies that still deny what happened, which are still trying in every possible way to challenge the sacrifice of the Croatian people, challenge the tragedy that has taken place. Without true truth, there is no freedom. So it is also very important for this issue that the Croatian state, that the Croatian government is loud and clear at all times, especially in the month of May tell the real truth, which is that the Croatian people were unfortunately killed by the winners in 1945.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180433	The next club of representatives is that of Croatian sovereigns and independent representatives Zeljko Glasnović and Zlatko Hasanbegovic, and will be spoken by the respected representative of Hrvoja Zekanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180434	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian people are for the unity of all the sovereign patriotic forces and forces that agree to the clear universal Christian principles in politics. Croatian sovereigns are for the community and this community has been rewarded twice already, it has been awarded for the European elections with the third best result, and it has also been awarded for presidential elections when candidate Miroslav Škoro has also achieved a great third best, almost identical to what HDZ and SDP have done. How important it is, how important it is that the unity may have been best seen in the Homeland War when our Croatian state was defending itself in the community. If then the Croatian people, if the Croats weren't all together under the same reach, there wouldn't be this magnificent victory that Croatian soldiers and Croatian defenders made and thank them for that. Thank them a thousand times. Today we are also at war, this is one existential war, a war of prosperity, no blood, but people will still die. This is also war for identity, and this is not less important and there are Croatian sovereigns extremely explicit, extremely clear. We are for a clear identity of the Croatian state and Croatian people and we do not want that identity to drown and disappear into the EU and we believe that only with a clear identity, with a clear heritage that we will properly cultivate, we can keep that place on the European political map that we deserve. Here I would also mention one man who marked this mandate extremely in HS, and this is about Slobodan Praljak. It was an event that rocked, I believe all those who think patrioticly, sovereignly, who cherish those Christian principles in life and politics. And his message to us was extremely strong, and it was a message of union. And this way I tell him one more time, thank you. And he would conclude this exhibition with one topic that is extremely important, and here it is related to today, on this day we are celebrating the 100th birthday of St. John Paul II, who has spoken many times about life and its endangerment, and our time has also given a significant warning that reads: “We are facing a huge and dramatic conflict between evil and good, between death and life, between a culture of death and a culture of life, not only before but necessarily in the midst of this conflict. The choice of one of these two cultures depends on the future of mankind." St. John Paul II was extremely clear on the protection of life and listening to his teaching, and I was very pleased that I had given the law on the protection of life as the only representative in HS. Unfortunately, he didn't see the light of day. Will he see him in some future term? I will make sure that the Parliament sees him or that he comes to the debate and is adopted. That's what I fought for, and I'll fight in politics. And I'm sure that effort will be rewarded. All those who are proponents of a hypocritical policy to take the votes of Democrats, Christian Democrats, without fighting for these principles in politics must know that this is a fraud by Croatian voters. Croatian politicians are expected to speak, work and fight for what he represents, rather than conduct one policy here, and formally take the votes of those who can actually say and cheat. Therefore, Croatian sovereigns and their partners the Homeland Movement have just begun and the community has no alternative.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180435	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180436	Now it is up to Mr. Miro Bulj to present the position of the Club of Representatives of Independent Lists. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180437	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, here I am because today we are remembering the international recognition of Croatia of our country. In these difficult times, however, the most important ones were Croatian defenders. However, the fact is that it is more than hypocritical when we see some calling for those days because Minister Ćoric, who left here, broke the Law on Croatian defenders on the issue. competition for director of the Krka National Park because it was much more important for him to hire a person here and to set up a tender for a person who has two party cards, an HDZ card and an HNS card from your gentlemen for the coalition partner Ivan Vrdoljak, or I don't know if he may have a card and a break from Milorad Pupovac SDSS because there is Duic, who also pushed that person for the National Park Director, is essentially in league with your party, and you are calling for some values about the Homeland War. Well, your gentlemen, the minister is violating the Croatian Defence Act. Ms Ljiljana Zmijanović is a Croatian defender and today she is i.e. It came out in public that the inspectorate's decision to break the Law on Croatian Defence, and in the 7th month of last year, the verdict was passed, the power of judgment that Mrs. Ljiljana Zmijanović, i.e. That this is the director of Mrs. Crescent's office. who is now Nela Slavica, that she is illegally employed and that the law on Croatian defenders was not respected regardless of what Mrs. Zmijanovic has better conditions because she was a Croatian defender, a scout in the Homeland War. But you're full of gentlemen, the more important Minister Coric is much more important how to hire a party who has an HNS card, at the same time, that your sir, and your Mr. Šipic, your party, gentlemen from HDZ. Therefore, I also asked for the thematic session of the Defence Committee after a powerful verdict, where it was re-hired by the same person, so imagine how much the Kingdom of Spiders is mayor and Dujic, how much the Empire is in the Sibenik County. Imagine, in the national park to hire a person who has worse conditions of professional, quality and has no status of Croatian defender and this is the second time that information comes out today when we remember, meaning international recognition of the Republic of Croatia that Minister Čorić who is otherwise a pest is ecological because he intends to do his job, then would not from Vrgorac 120 km from the same sanitary conditions bring the solution that.../incomprehensible/... together with the inspector, that the garbage is transported 100 km to Sinj, to Sinj, Mr. Šipić, I think you will try to resolve this because you have said that you have solved, but the solution still stands. Once again in the end, I must repeat, on this day, here are messages to all Croatian defenders from that time. How you feel and why you leave this Croatia and your children because it is more important that the candidate for director of Krka National Park had two party cards, HNS and HDZ. And Mrs. Devereaux. Zmijanovic, who was the defender of the Homeland War, who has better professional qualities than this lady, however, has been employed, regardless of the judicial verdict that Minister Coric again has been misbehaved here when he answers questions, which he has violated, and now the inspectorate has again made the same decision to violate the Law on Defence regardless. I'm sorry that this isn't the Minister of the Bear who didn't fit very tightly on the board, I'm sorry that he's not Mr. Djakic, who calculated when he called that session as president of the veterans. I'm sorry these people didn't stand behind the defenders, and you're calling yourself here in person today. Here is one reason why the smaller number, as Prime Minister Plenkovic said, received votes for the counties of traditional HDZ and because these counties are pests along with our Ministry of the Environment that drove people for these things because they have more important IDs. HDZ and HNS rather than professional quality [[Thank you, Mr. Bull.]] and defense status. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180438	And the last is Mr. Miro Bulj, who will present the position of the Club of Representatives of Independent Lists. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180439	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. My colleagues and colleagues, I'm glad Mr. Bilavuer and his associate are here to discuss the subject, we were here last night. There was a debate on Minister Divjak until 3:00 last night, and I mentioned it. In the education system, there are problems, and here are the key children. We have one huge problem mainly in the Cetina region, although in the Republic of Croatia last year, 10 buses were burned down with children. So what happened with the home for the elderly and the powerless is a disaster, and these 10 buses only in my Sinj and Cetina region burned down 4 buses every month on a regular basis one. And of course, I did three months ago work to make inspection surveillance of the bus. The only thing I got, I got the answer that of your meaning from the inspection, that's your portfolio, that's the surveillance of Prometheus Sinj and that's directed to the MUP. And that leaves two months from the answer, 2.5 months. But the other day, however, the bus burned down again. Do you know why? Buses are old, they don't care about our kids, and the owner absolutely doesn't care that's one special story, it's a story for the Ministry of Finance. Transport Makarska was a strategic passenger of the 2009 Auto Transport Sinj, in February a restructuring and consolidation contract was signed, absolutely nothing from the contract was reached, but it was a guarantee meaning guarantee, a bank guarantee located in the ministry that it was 17.9 million kuna. It was.../incomprehensible... to buy in amount, I don't know exactly, but it seems to me 12 or 13 million kunas in 2-3 years to buy new buses. Well, our kids, gentlemen, are driving on buses over 20 years old. The same owner, Prometo Sinj, also has Transport Makarska, new buses for Germany, for Split, but the children's water, drives in and our parents cry to me, hey cramp, their dick when you throw them like I said in an atomic bomb they're going to fire. So imagine you four buses have been burned recently, which is a fear sent to school, and we're talking about pillation here, so I told the minister last night because she has to react to this too. Because the ministry decentralises the funds and subsidized the county through the ministry of a certain, of course and local self-government both which and how much that can help parents and that's okay. However, a man made at the bus station half did a technical examination, of course, of pure corruption to the distinguished secretary. I expect you to get rid of this corrupt system, that our drawer is not driving on the 20-year-old buses, that parents don't hold back when their child is burned on buses, I'm not just sick of a memo from you, I'm not tired of a memo from you that, that the inspection report has been carried out and what is now the inspection report, will be fine, but there is, over the land of the owner has been made a technical examination, who is reviewing, how he examines, requested himself and the session of the City Council of Sinja, I expect inclusion and county, we must not allow our children to be threatened by the lives of children, whether or not the elderly and the helpless, our children, in this case all the passengers, but the most sweetest money that I have been submerged, where the bus in those corridors, in the hallways which are unadjustified for children, but the weby, but the safety of which has not been found in the only by the car and the children who burned in the car, the car, the car, the car, the car, the car, and the car, and the car, and the car that didn's, and the car, and the car, and the car, and the car, and the car, and the car, and the car, and the car, and the car, and the car, and the car of the car, and the car, and the car, and the car, and the car, and the car, and the car, and the car, and the car, and the car, and the car, and the car, and the car, and the car, and the car, and the car, and the car, and the car of the car, and the car, and the car, and the car that the car, and the car of the car, and the car, and the car, and the car of the car of the car of the car of the car of the car, and the car of the car of the car, and the car, and the car, and the car of the car, and the car of the car of the car of the car of the car, and the car, and the car of the car of the car, and the car of the car of the car of the car, and the car, and the car, the car, the car, the In the area of the Cetina region it is a huge problem, 4 buses were burned in a few days, and this one gets neat money, owner of money on the account, and nothing respected, the owner's name is Mate Jujnovic, that better knows Schuker, he signed the contract with him as finance minister and from here I call the finance minister to see if he's respected The contract and let it charge the bank guarantee [[Intruder: Time]] Thank you very much. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180440	Thank you very much. We're done taking a stand.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180441	Now there will be a speech by clubs and independent representatives, so free speech, so please, those who won't listen speak to leave the assembly, and those who speak first is the first time a colleague of Slaven Dobrović from MOST should prepare himself.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180442	Dear colleagues and colleagues, please take your seats. Who wants to stay, and we're starting with the views on behalf of the club. We can get a little silence so that first, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, a respected representative, Slaven Dobrović, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180443	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180444	My colleagues and colleagues, please, come on in and have a colleague, Dobrović.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180445	Thank you very much. The citizens of the city of Zagreb have already been exposed for more than 2 weeks to significantly worse living conditions, i.e. worsened air quality. This refers in particular to the particle pollution defined most frequently, so on measurement cells as PM10 and measured and defined, of course, in other ways. But no other parameters like nitrogen oxides or volatile organic compounds are much better. We can ask what's causing it. It is certainly the weather that does not allow the dilution and dissipation of the pollution created in Zagreb in the last two weeks. This means that a good part of what we are broadcasting remains trapped by a stagnant atmosphere over Zagreb, leading to an increase in concentration. This raised Zagreb high on the rankings of the world's most polluted cities in a short time, in just a few days. But whether it is only that higher power or here has the responsibilities of those who have ruled the city for decades. We can come up with an answer when we think about what's emitting all these contaminants. So we know good, traffic, system and heating through numerous individual furnaces and boilers but also poor waste management are among the most important segments that emit pollution. How to reduce traffic emissions? It is clear that a public transport system should be strengthened especially by those driven by electricity, at the same time working on traffic flow and reducing the number of vehicles with internal combustion engines. What is the trend in Zagreb? We can look at one of the latest studies called the optimisation of traffic flows on the road network of the city of Zagreb and we will see exactly the opposite trends. So in the last 30 years, there has been a clear and stable trend in increasing the use of personal cars while reducing public transport use. Is this also the direct consequence of the bad city management policy in this segment? The answer is yes. Ovens and boilers, heating systems. We all know that worse fuel and old boilers pollute more. Coal has long been and is not used but there is no excuse nor for leach oil as energy except for polluting it is expensive. Today, gas or condensation boilers are no longer the best rescue solution that has long been considered to be because gas, of course, is a fossil fuel that emits certain contaminants and, in other words, generates and a greenhouse footprint, i.e. carbon footprint, today are... and renewable sources that offer the best solution. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Their price is increasingly favourable and becomes competitive, therefore, for use. And then we come to the question of how it is possible, even today, in numerous city-run institutions, to use exactly a lot of oil, so it is about schools, kindergartens and various homes, a lot of oil in the city of Zagreb, and we can tell how many particles we are recording today in Zagreb's air are the result of this very practice. So it's certainly a remarkable contribution. Responsible or irresponsible policy is clear. So irresponsible politics and here's the waste. The waste can be managed as in Zagreb where I don't know who, what, when and where it goes, where and when, say, composting creates a stink where it doesn't insist on creating a whole over-reliance system with an optimized transport, necessary infrastructure and with a fair system of collection and responsibility at all levels. But, of course, it has to be managed differently, as it seems and can be seen in many cities and municipalities in Croatia, which will contribute to both better efficiency and lower emissions. In this sector, the situation is catastrophic. So the conclusion is not just air, or atmospheric opportunities are which gave us the opportunity to see the catastrophic state of a series of policies in Zagreb, which must certainly and should be fixed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180446	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180447	Now it's time for the esteemed colleague of Nikola Grmoy, the club of representatives of the Independent Lists, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180448	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, so I will talk about currents, the Republic of Croatia has unfortunately been transformed into a country where stakeholders and individuals no longer cross over from anything, the latest in a series of evidence that this is also the case of a bank in the Republic of Croatia which has publicly published an ad seeking the Agency for Public Relations, a popular pirate, who will press the Constitutional Court to make a decision in favour of the high state body and other banks. Some today want to attribute their clumsyness, just as some try to justify the brutal liquidation of the secret services of a failed regime with a distinctive style of expression. But this isn't about any awkwardness, it's about words and deeds that have been said and done with imagination. Unfortunately, our institutions give the impression that they can be influenced by lobbying and manipulating the public. In particular, as far as our Constitutional Court is concerned, the impression was created when two of the largest parliamentary parties engaged in political trade around the town of the Constitutional Court and chose as judges spent politicians instead of excellent lawyers and experts. What wonders, then, if individuals or stakeholders feel that such a court may be affected. On the other hand, trust in the state institutions and the rule of law melts like a polar hat in the Arctic, and when we talk about this very trust, we must also look back at the case of our police officer who has been sexually harassed by her fellow officer in the service whose password is security and trust. By reporting this work, she expected the institutions of this state to protect her, and that the judiciary would effectively punish the perpetrator, instead she experienced humiliation through a court ruling that was handed down on behalf of the Republic of Croatia, her pain and suffering had occurred, meaning no, not only once during that act, but also this verdict. We've received an epilogue of this case these days through a public apology from the President of the Supreme Court for a court mistake. We can believe the sincerity of this apology, but we cannot help but wonder how many more people deserve an apology from the Croatian judiciary for the damage it has caused them. At the same time, the son of a general who was filmed with the Home Secretary was not sentenced to jail for possession of 5kg of drugs, but was replaced by work for the common good. How after this, anyone from this government can talk about the fight against crime, against drug dealers, how after cases like this, anyone can talk about fighting corruption, and unfortunately they can do anything, and the small ones, the banks can, the sons of the dignitaries can, and the vision of order in this country is being introduced to football games where people are going to be brought in for two drunk beers, of course, champagne will flow in the lodges. Another example is how this country and this government, without any feeling, are trampled by an ordinary man who is fighting for his existence and existence of his family, is the Law on Contributions, which was amended by the end of 2018, these changes have introduced increased burdens for the contributions of directors and members of company management. We warned at that time during the debate and through the amendment that many of our small entrepreneurs, especially beginners and young people, will have big problems to raise money for paying new taxes, the Ministry of Finance and the Government did not hear about our small entrepreneurs, that when we say entrepreneurs seem to be some people who have money, these are our hairdressers, all of the people who have some twists. Today, when these obligations come at the expense of many of our micro and small entrepreneurs, they threaten blockage and closure. We at MOST yesterday have proposed a solution, I expect you colleagues to support it and help people to continue working and live here in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180449	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we will now take a stand on behalf of the clubs and will be the first to speak on behalf of the club MOST independent lists of respected MP Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180450	Thank you very much. I will talk about the issue of traffic safety especially when we have the fact and statistics that 10 buses in the Republic of Croatia burned down last year. I would now warn myself here once again, and tomorrow I will have a press release and we will have civil action in the area of Sinj and the Cetin region because every month a bus burning down in which there are children and here, in the last few months four buses of Prometo Sinj burned down where the only skills of the driver and the speed of the driver are simply saved lives, full of our children's buses. Parents feel so insecure that when they send their children to school, that they literally call me as agents often not knowing how to express their insecurity, they simply cry for their children and send them as if they were sent to death. I think this is one of the serious topics that we need to discuss because transport security is very important. The fact that bus owners are mainly now going back to car transport i.e. on Transport Sinj, which was taken over in 2000, i.e. who became a strategic partner in Transport Makarska in 2005 where in the restructuring and consolidation contract the car was not met by any condition of the contract, where then the owner also committed to buying Prometo Makarska as a strategic partner and buses in the amount of 12 million kuna, however it was never taken but even half of the bus station, the public goods was built by the Technical Transport Station itself. The buses look like they're from Rwanda. I can't believe they're not in Transport Makarska in Makarska, they're not on their way to Berlin, for Germany, here's the day they don't call their parents a bus stop, there's a busload of kids, insecure, and that's what I wrote about, here's what I wrote to the relevant institutions as early as 31st, i.e. On 17 October 2019, I sent a traffic inspection which sent the report after a few days after she sent it to the MUP. Since there's an esteemed secretary here, I expect the MUP to tell me what's up with those buses that visually when you see them, they look like they're from the last century, what's happening in the beginning of the bus, just those buses stop on the road when they're driving students from Split to Sinj and inside, they're full of buses, not only in the seats, but in those halls. Often burning the bus, frequent fires on buses, we simply have to stop and obviously this is about corruption and a corrupt system because, for example, it gave guarantees to the owner of Prometo Makarska, Mate Junovic, 17 million kuna that are located in the Ministry of Finance. Did he honor the contract? I'm asking all the ministers from Minister Shuker who did it to the Minister of Finance today. Still standing in the vault that money, old buses, people are afraid, sending their parents to school in rural areas. Even this bus that drives the students of Sinj-Split, however, we know that the school is the founder of the county, that the subsidies and the Ministry of Education, education, subsidies, there is local self-government and counties, however, no one at all, I have requested a thematic session with 12 signatures in the city of Sinj and I expect that there will be this session, that we will set up a conclusion, however, because of the inaction we have groups on social networks, I will in Sinj with those citizens because it is my obligation as a representative, to go into civil action with the honourable secretaries, in front of the ministry to bring these people with pictures of these buses in which their children are transported. What if that bus that often burns, burns the kids in it? It's hard to imagine what a tragedy that is. Let's stop corruption in the traffic system. Here is pure corruption, here directly affects the technical examination of these buses that are ancient, even trade unions have declared that buses in us are over 20 years of age. 20 years old. When we were setting up a taxi service, it's something different, so now the new law five years old can be a taxi, and the 50-year-old buses are transporting our children without any respect for the rules and technical conditions. They all have confirmation that they are technically correct, it's pure corruption and citizens are moving into action. I'm going to Sinj for civil action because it's my obligation to protect children. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180451	Thank you. The next club is that respected representative of the Bridge of Independent Lists, Mira Bulja, who will speak on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180453	Thank you very much, esteemed colleagues. Also, here at the beginning would absolutely condemn the attacks on the press. All of us sometimes have remarks, especially me who... The press, but the attacks on journalists and on the media of physical, verbal or physical should be condemned by all of us, because it is a direct blow to democracy and I this way, here I am supporting journalists with their press freedoms, and no matter what we are sometimes, I repeat all of us dissatisfied with some articles, with some writings, but indicatively, without media until writing, there is no freedom. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, I'd like to speak here in a frame right now what's very important to me, these are projects in Dalmatia. A few days ago, 10 days ago, Prime Minister Plenkovic came in and with his associates and his opponents and Mr Stier and Mr Kovac to visit a little... Split, there was some celebration so they went to Imotski and they came to Imotski to promise that by 2023 there would be a sheave for the property end, it means from Zagvozd to Imotski's access road, which will be on the highway and which is really significant, but this is the 10th time, that this 10th time, the 10th election is in pre-election time to promise them the way to the Property. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I would point out that I've given amendments four times in a row, not once accepted. As it was rejected, there was a minister here, traffic, they refused the amendments, as well as the mergers in Dalmatia Zagora and Drniš and Knin, and in particular the launch of a fast road project from Križica to Kukuzovac, a merger of Cetinska krajina, which is larger than Međimurje County, I always repeat, superficially, and by the number of inhabitants is larger than Ličko-Senj County. Of course, I also laid the cornerstones because even before the elections when Minister Kujundzic came, Plenkovic opened up in Zagvozd, I don't know, everything he didn't, I laid the cornerstones so that they can go now. To promise something that they will end in 2023, and this year there are elections, so what do they really do to those people in Dalmatia? And that's the basic reason why people leave. 2016 was launched means a feasibility study for, for years there has been talk about the merger of the Cetina region and Sinj, with the highway and it is indeed, with this project Sinj and the Cetin end becoming the suburbs of Split. Split is overcrowded and a Split swimming pool of over 300 thousand people from Trogir to Omis and simply there is no di developing. The Cetin end, as well as the Dalmatian Zagora, are the most perspective areas for the survival of people and for the arrival of people in Croatia. But for the veins of the housewives would indeed be a Chettish end, the Dalmatian Zagora, along with these verticals, would be the suburbs of Split and in tourist times, at the time of tourism because we know that the below brand and tourism would have something to show people from that area. Investment in tourism needs to be increased, so it went automatically, agricultural production because we need to know that we don't have a system solved or drained well enough. And the Sinjsko field, the Vrgorsko field, the Petrovic field, the Drinski field, so Kninsko field, these are areas that move out. With this project they deserve, here's only the river Cetina's distinguished secretary, i.e. Associate Minister of Transport, only the river Cetina annually gives 40% of the hydropower of the Republic of Croatia, and here we are literally mocked by that road that is projected somewhere around 200 million kuna, which, I repeat, would have brought the Cetino end of Split closer, would have become suburban, conditions for life would be phenomenal, better than in the city because Split is overcrowded at this point. They have no place to build apartments or houses or buildings, and this project is a vessel for the survival of people in these areas, so they move out. And we have vice versa, here, Petar Škorić knows that literally everything is empty in the Dalmatian Zagora and that is, of course, the culprits are false promises of all the mayors, and the counties are cancer-earned leaving people from that area only since the counties were founded, 100 thousand people are less. Is that enough? About the numbers, how many schools have been closed, how many health services have disappeared simply, I will do it another time, and this way again, do not rub the people's eyes or Minister Butkovic or Prime Minister Plenkovic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180454	Now it's time for the esteemed colleague of Nikola Grmoy, the club of representatives of the Independent Lists, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180455	Thank you, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, so every Wednesday, at every stop with only a week apart, there are so many new affairs or replays of those old people who push under the carpet to achieve this vision of stability, it's clear to everyone, it's just a cover-up cover-up for the destruction that is going on in this country. How much political and human responsibility it takes for citizens to be systematically deceived and lied that everything is okay in a vital sector like health care and that we lost 4 years, and literally nothing has been done, so we're going to have a new minister, he's going to have some kind of short time in which of course he can't do anything, and that's what I believe everything needs to be worried. Patients suffered, doctors, nurses, all citizens, but did not want to give in although the facts said that a man who manages Croatian health did nothing, did nothing, did nothing about huge debts, neither about the treatment of patients, nor about the status of medical staff, did it, was called administrative councils, pushed into drawers, covered up when MOST on two occasions covered all of this in 52 reasons for leaving the minister, no one wanted to listen, you did not want to listen to you colleagues from the ruling coalition, did not want to listen to the prime minister, there was a hearty defence of Minister Kujundzic, and yesterday before the end of the term, only the plays and replays of previously seen performances. The minister did not leave because of the situation in Croatian health but because of perception, due to the impression said by the prime minister, he left because of the stability of HDZ and the government, which is most important. Neither Croatian patients, nor doctors, nor nurses are important. Health care is on its knees, education is not moving from a dead spot, there are fewer children in school benches and more guru selling us fog. Demography is in such an apartment that people rightly wonder where this strategy the government is waving with, is it the same strategy as health and education, the nonexistent as the emperor's new routine in Andersen's fairy tale. So Croatia disappears and the government has announced 100 demographic measures, tomorrow it's only one. So I think 99 have announced them. So on the agenda puts the Law on maternity and parental support that is insufficient, there was no constructive debate, there was no measure to keep the families in Croatia, so they in power for anyone but themselves, for this perfect thieving balance, as I once called it in the Croatian Parliament, this balance of corruption, affairs and false promises. We presented a concrete measure and as regards these maternity and parental support, we talked about it yesterday, our Sonja Čikotić and Slaven Dobrović, we will talk about it and tomorrow, we provide legal proposals that go in favour of our citizens but no one listens to it and everything that we talked about happens at once. About a year and a half ago, we said that Minister Kujundzic should leave, and now he's leaving, and that's what we said about these other ministers in the government. We also spoke that the HNS and HDZ coalition was agreed, and then the president of the HDZ accused me of being a liar, there were worse accusations, but everything finally turned out to be true, everything turned out to be, that a colleague of the HNS Curaj, it all turned out to be true, but unfortunately it all happens with a little bit of corruption but people open their eyes, I am convinced that they will recognize those who offer solutions, who are fighting for the interests of citizens and will say a lot of these corruption affairs, a lot of corruption, a lot of false promises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180456	The next club of representatives is one of the MOST independent lists on behalf of which Sonja Cikotic, a respected representative, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180457	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I'm going to talk here today about demographic change. We urgently need a demographic strategy in Croatia that will be for a period of 10 years so that young families can start their families and to be able to plan their family policy. And I'm also not just talking about those first aids that are being given, let's say that they help with the birth of a child, so then we have a system of maternity benefits and support, and I also want to talk about foster mothers. So there should be a certain step towards these women in a way that materially increases their material conditions for them and their families. I also want to talk about assistants in class. All that does is actually one system that's necessary for that country that actually wants a demographic revitalization. Every year at the beginning of the school year, we have a problem, whether to arrange for the assistants in the classroom in time. We have different practices from county to county, some counties pay off regresses, some counties don't pay off, some pay out Christmases, in some counties the selection process starts in time, and some kids don't find their assistant in class when school years start. As a state, if we want to deal with demographic revitalisation, if this really matters to us, one public policy should certainly have provided resources for helpers in the teaching process and also not to lower their status under one regulation, but we need to settle this by law which will then be voted in this legislative body and so that these assistants and those children who were about 4,500 had and enjoyed the confidence of the system that tomorrow will not be left to themselves and the families. Similarly, as far as maternity benefits are concerned, it is important for us to make this demographic strategy a standard for mothers and children. It is enough to depend on their rights at the home of the mother or the residence of the child. If you are born and are born in a small Slavonian municipality for your child, you will receive a gift of about a thousand, two or five thousand kuna. If you come from some rich community or city it'll be multiple more. Without this strategy, which is crucial for demographic revitalisation with key measures, we should actually say that in 555 municipalities and cities cannot be different prices for kindergartens. Well, we're all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. That's what the Most stands for. We also need to ensure that other policies, family policies, are included through this demographic policy, let's say the child's salary that they are not 199 kuna, 249 kuna or 299 kuna. It is simply not enough in this time, it is not enough to be serious that a person whose household has 534 kuna per member of the household can receive meaning his family for the child 299 kuna. So that's the poverty line, it's poverty, 300,000 children in Croatia are bordered by poverty. When we talk about the Ministry of Demography, what the Family Law lacks. Where's the Family Law? How long do the procedures before the social care center, which all of these powers have in the welfare centres to actually protect children's rights so that parents guardians do not go into lengthy court proceedings and additionally burden the judiciary? Also when dealing with issues and concerns, when dealing with alimony issues, do these children really have quick procedures, if these judgments actually happen, these procedures, how many years it takes, and it's a child's life. Have mothers, single mothers, in any way welcome in our society, which we mechanisms from local, regional communities have ensured that these children have equal opportunities. I don't stand for it, and I won't argue that we're all the same, but I'll always argue that we all have equal opportunities especially in education, especially in education and social rights. So our children, our mothers are the highest values of Croatian society. It is time for us to have a constructive policy that will not ask how much it costs but how effective it is for our society and for our children who are our future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180458	Thank you very much, we'd like to finish today's work. We will continue on Wednesday 5 February at 9:30 with a point of the proposal Energy Development Strategy by 2030 with a view to 2050 and wish you a pleasant weekend. Session interrupted at 13.10 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180459	5th in a row Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists and Honored counterpart Slaven Dobrović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180460	Thank you very much. Dear President of the Parliament. I welcome all my colleagues and colleagues. Yesterday in public space, I had the opportunity to talk about a waste management system that shows very bad signs, so I criticized the system, after which a very quick opportunity to respond was given by competent minister Ćoric. I was also talking about the regulation and some deviating phenomena, the minister referred only to the regulation as if he had heard that more than 50 units of local self-government and communals had been confirmed by the complaint and at the Constitutional Court had objected to a regulation that really had serious difficulties. However, the minister failed to do something else, respond to remarks about how the system is being built, about insisting on what is actually a system failure measure, these are waste management centres, etc. in which the rest of what the municipal system failed to separate comes, prepare for a circular economy. Of course, it is very disproportionate to what the prime minister began to say when he greatly praises the European Green Plan. And I would warn the minister to study little about what is going on in Babina Gora, Luka's distance, Lečevica, and that these are projects that have a express clientelistic character run mainly by counties that have no knowledge, no ability, no responsibility for the sector. Centres that are extremely expensive, which cannot meet and meet the objectives set in the sector and centres that pose a major threat to both the environment and people. So it's full truth, and at the same time it's not the only thing that can enable local self-government units to meet their goals, what exists in Prelog and in Krk and Osijek, and what some have already achieved their goals. So that's very important, Minister. And this clientelism, therefore, which unfortunately passed the entire Croatian society and which is particularly present in this sector, really eats Croatia's future. It will be able to spend practically all the money available in the wrong way, so it is a political trade and in particular in Zagreb we have the situation in place, and in addition, the city of Zagreb has not been the only object to this regulation at all, and I think we are able to see what we actually have in Zagreb or in all of Croatia today or these days. Have we completely lost all criteria to the general good, according to progress, to the citizens' interest? This will show the behaviour towards GUP which Bandic persistently pushes to the city of Zagreb, which Bandic is an eclatantly one clientelistic project against the profession because we can see that the entire profession is urban, architectural, cultural, therefore quite unique and institutionally and individually raised against this project. So all this together to deny and support the Zagreb City Assembly, such a project will actually say a lot or prove what it is known these days to hear that HDZ, or Prime Minister and Protector Milan Bandic, is also serving his purpose here in the Parliament. I think it's time we all saw it together the way it is and that we knew Judge in the election. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180461	The next Club of Representatives is the Mosta and Independent Lists and in the name of which will be spoken by the respected representative Marko Sladolev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180462	Thank you. Dear MPs, therefore, in what political toad we live in, speaks a statement by Mayor Bandic, who otherwise rarely tells the truth, and today he has told the brutal truth about individual representatives, which is: "When I was your father, then you kept quiet, and now I am your biggest thief." So he detected the conversion of people who are now playing the opposition, and he came out of their incubator and they are actually guilty of Milan Bandic being at the head of the City of Zagreb today. Today, however, I will talk about GUP, what is currently in the Zagreb Assembly and what the Zagreb Bridge has proposed amendments that were of course not accepted. It wasn't practically obvious about them. Political design of the City of Zagreb which brings only problems because it has no ability to view the whole, existing basic GUP to which these changes are referred and complemented by the 1986 GUP. There have been major changes that require a new GUP. It has been 34 years, and urban planning has not moved from a dead spot and has taken steps with new ways of designing and solving spatial problems. In Croatia, changes in social order from socialism and entry into capitalist society and the market economy, social property in private ownership, and urbanism of the city has not caught up with changes. Where are the reflections on the sustainable development of the city? Demographic projections of development, obvious climate change, addressing the problem of circular waste management, developing transport infrastructure based on which strategy is the city developing? The whole profession opposes this incompetent and political devastation of Zagreb. The estimated changes and additions contain 200 points that are tailored to individual, private interests and destroying the integrity of the city's quality resolution. HZUA President, in his lecture, exhibited Zagreb is exhausted, urban tissue is devastated. It's the face of privates and city officials. And it is these officials who want the great green city plot of the jewel of Zagreb the stock of past generations for the future area of today's Hippodroma to devastate while their unsettled stands localities in the center of the city such as the area of Badela and Gredela with which they do not know what would have paid them dearly. Globally around the world, cities are planning a multidisciplinary approach, a serious and long-term assessment involving both the public and the profession. Unfortunately, the city of Zagreb has no strategy, so there is no vision of the development of the city, but through the GUP it solves particular clientelistic and private interests. He invites representatives in the city assembly if they have any morals and dignity to reject these changes to the GUP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180463	The next club of MPs will be that of the Most Independent Lists on behalf of which the respected representative Miro Bulj will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180464	In Croatia's Croatian citizens, according to our report that we have about 10 kg of fish at the official State Statistics Office, unfortunately we import fish while at the same time we have one of the largest fish farms in Europe, it is on the river Ruda, the river Cetina, where a trout farm was built in the 1980s. There were 40 people working on that farm, the whole place, it's a municipality, an island in the Cetitian region, the whole place beautiful where we have a source of ore, and there's this farm today turned into municipal waste, for this we have, we don't have a lot of words, we have just three words, we have privatisation, we have debts, bankruptcy. City councillors from that municipality and people from the Dalmatinski and City and City Halls and people from that area wanted to solve this farm, 240 swimming pools, of which 100 fish milking pools, traps, are converted into municipal waste. This farm, which meant 140 large pools, not counting 100 small ones as I said about a small trout, so a total of 200 of these 40 swimming pools and swimming pools is considered a rare economic complex not only in the Republic of Croatia, unprofessional management of the farm, changing owners, remaining debts, and everything culminating before 2.g. when it's definitely closing. The then, then, means it is also the owner of Ogulin, simply went, raised his hands, who is all involved no one knows, but the people of the area where the emigration is sending a strong cry to the government, councilmen write letters to the prime minister, all of them, meaning that survival, turns into a communal mess, it's one beautiful, the second time I'll bring you a picture of what ore looks like, what it looks like, the river Cetina flows, and the prime minister isn't responding, the Ministry of Agriculture doesn't fit, of course people are now announcing protests here, from a fish farm that was perspective we Croats who import the fish frozen who knows where everything is being brought in, we destroy the fish market and even have been built up in 80 years. Why can't you hear the screams of those people? I can't understand that it's in anyone's interest to break up so much in these three words that we often repeat all of our ends, privatisation, debt, privatisation, debt, bankruptcy and so on in this farm where the Croats unfortunately when we all call for a fish that is a healthy diet, unfortunately we're still lagging behind and behind Europeans, and in Europe there's about 25.5 kg per capita, in us, unfortunately there's a lot less, in Portugal there's 55 kg, meaning the needs for fish are there, mainly freshwater fish, the largest fish farm on the River orda in the municipality of the island, in the village of Ruda is forgotten by all, not guilty of these people, the most, the finest, purest, healthy diet, destroyed. Here I had this obligation to say here, saying that I stand behind all these people, these locals, mostly those young people who have raised their voice and I will stand by them, and this way I call the prime minister, the minister, all in charge of having all the resources and finally stop the destruction of the farm on the Ruda River and start producing trout fish, and we have All conditions for that. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180465	Let's go to a second presentation on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, dear colleague Bozo Petrov, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180466	Ivan's been weird lately, he's irritable, he's 15 years old, and his parents attribute it to adolescence, to one normal development. There is almost a euphoria at times, then there are moments of blackness, and while parents hope it is a passing phase, the first comes a call from school. Parents learn that Ivan has long been out of school, catastrophic grades, and he is also following a disastrous attitude towards teachers, towards colleagues. Then comes the call from the police because the nightmare doesn't stop. Ivan was found, caught stealing and was found extasy in the search. How did a good child get to the perpetrator of crimes? And how did his life get sealed up before he got in a fair fight in the first place? And what you've heard is not an isolated example. Currently, there is an epidemic in our society that is not spoken of, columns are being filled about the coronary virus, about an exotic virus from far away China, about that epidemic that is now ruling in Croatia, the government is almost being distracted, the silence. On days in Croatia, you have almost 100,000 addicts on gambling and gambling. The fate of an addict touches 4 to 8 people in his surroundings and please, before you shake your hand and before you stick your head in the sand like an owl, I will warn you that the good kid at the beginning of the story may be your son or your grandson one day. Why? Because the system is so complex in Croatia. Experts say Croatia is an open system for gambling. The bookies, the casinos, they open easily at every step of the way, you have them at one step to the school. In particular, according to DZSS data, in the 1990s there were about 350 sales venues registered for the performance and sale of gambling. In 2009, over 1600, today, in the Republic of Croatia you have over 4000 payment places for betting games, over 7500 machines, 234 auto clubs, 15 casinos, this is this open system where gambling is intensely advertised and it has led us to the next. Gambling is one of the most common addictions in Croats with over 100,000 addicts. 40% of minors make a regular bet. 13% of minors have serious psycho-social gambling issues. In Canada, for example. Only 1.3%. Troubled gambling is associated with antisocial personality disorder, alcohol abuse and drugs, criminal acts. I therefore call on all, especially the Government of the Republic of Croatia to raise awareness of the problem because today you have tens of thousands of destroyed lives and families that eats both the state and society in the long term and the state does not have a systematic monitoring of the appearance of people who are pathologically gambling, nor are legal norms being respected, a national strategy to combat addiction that was written 3 years ago still in the drawers of the ministry. The sooner we can legally regulate gambling, the better we need to introduce risk-recognition practices, implement preventive interventions, educate teachers and understand ourselves, there are pilot projects that are successful, which have tried to show excellent results such as the project at the Faculty of Education and Rehabilitation, University of Zagreb, titled "Who actually wins?" Unfortunately, the state still has no hearing. Should we touch the bottom here until we understand the level of trouble? But if you don't care about others, I remind you of something else. Ivan may one day be Ante, perhaps Marco, perhaps one day your son or your grandson.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180467	Mr. Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180468	Thank you very much. NGOs, the European House and the European Movement for Croatia are organising a European contest at the school titled "Europe Connecting". Children should write literary expressions about giving peace a chance and against it should, no one should have anything. And the subtitle says there has been no war in the European Union in the last 75 years. I ask you from here whether Minister Blaženko Divjak will accept this request and the guidance of these NGOs in this form where the Homeland War is denied or Croatia is not within the European Union. This literary work that is given to children does not essentially mention the Homeland War, if they say that there has been no war in the European Union for 75 years then we do not belong to the European Union and now we are chaired in the European Union. I believe that truth and peace can be revealed, of course, and encouraged to write about peace, about no aggression and against war. However, great Serbian, Chetnic aggression must be forgotten because I am sending this inquiry to Minister Divjak whether our children in the third and fourth grade high school will write about the meaning of peace i.e. of 75 years old that peace in the European Union is a total lie. We must not forget, we should talk about peace, but we must not agree to the forgetful Serbian, Chetnic aggression and the role of the Croatian man, Croatian soldiers and the truth about the Croatian soldier in the Homeland War. I expect, of course, a quick response from Minister Divjak not to marginalize and forget our history. Because if we tell our children that there has been no war in our territory for 75 years, then it's all about us, especially the truth about the Homeland War. I would say right now that when I talk about the Homeland War here and the headmaster of HTV that once again I call him from this pay phone at a stop which is a question of the Homeland War that is forgotten and tried to drag into school classrooms that there was no Homeland War, that it is simple, that we are in the European Union, now that we are chairing it, when we call for a connection, we are trying to tell the truth about the Homeland War. That is why we call you once again to protect and preserve archives from the Homeland War, to protect these materials that our war cameramen have recorded, and Lederer has also died, others have risked their lives, instead of guns carrying a camera, they have recorded the Homeland War, and I believe it is one of the very important materials. I am sorry that you no longer treat this and that this truth is not in the classrooms, not that it is pushed into classrooms that 75 years of peace has been in the European Union, and we must not agree to that. The one who agrees with this lie and the one who pushes this story into the school that it is written that 75 years in Europe was not, in the European Union was not a war, it is a direct humiliation, spit on the foundations of the Croatian state that was created in the Homeland War, meaning that it is a deliberate imposition of what you are boasting that you are carrying everything you need from Rijeka, but protect the archives from the Homeland War, audio, videos, if you do not protect it and if you start pushing and returning what you are now trying or through regimeal features such as the former flag of the Republic, this Yugoslav or similar thing, then you impose a lie on the public and destroying yourself directly based the Republic of Croatia, directly through the classrooms and through the Minister Divjak. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180469	Thank you very much. Of course, at the point of view, anyone can say whatever they want, but it was a follow-up debate from before, and then a little out of the ordinary, but listen, you have the right to do that, so. We're done taking a stand.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180470	The next club of representatives is that of the Most Independent Lists on behalf of which the respected representative Miro Bulj will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180471	Thank you very much. Croatia was humane in the most difficult times of the Homeland War when it received refugees who had fled BiH before Serbian captors in those times when most of Croatia was occupied, economically threatened, then we showed our humanity. However, I am always to help people in difficulty and Croatia knows how to show itself in difficult times and even civil initiatives that have helped our people to help others in difficult times. However, I would point out here one problem that I have spoken on several occasions, but as time moves away the problem is increasingly escalating, and in essence the public's focus is leaving, and this is the problem of illegal migrants in the areas of the Republic of Croatia. Our border is thousands of kilometers towards BiH and this part of Serbia, people of illegal migrants crossing the border without any control, with the immediate commendation of 6,000 and some of our officers, doing maximum work, but we simply have no capacity for such a border. I as a witness down in this area happen that people cross the border illegally and that our people don't feel safe about their material and their lives. I referred to the example on several occasions in the Vrgorak area and the entire area of the entire border and my Sinjska border, Kninski, Lici, Sibenik, meaning according to the Gorski Kotar, simply people crossing the border that the cops do not have enough. I read today's statements asking for the withdrawal of Croatian soldiers from Afghanistan, there's nothing to wait for, a lot of Croatian soldiers were targets and clay pigeons and we don't want to let that happen anymore. A Croatian soldier under the law we have can do police work, according to the Borders Act. And I ask from here once again to ensure the safety of our citizens, their personal and their material security at the borders where illegal migrants enter uncontrollably. What's uncontrollable is not good, people are worried, these people in their own, who are all these people, I don't want of course the triba being that human line, the triba helping people, but there's a way to do it, and not in a way that as a country all the surrounding countries didn't accept the Marrakekian compact, they didn't accept that story exclusively to protect the safety of themselves and their citizens, but these are now insecure areas, border areas are currently insecure. Our citizens don't feel safe, the Croatian police doing their job the best they can not have enough human capacities to preserve that border and that's the truth. I called here on the law that was passed in this House that the Croatian Army could do police work at the border, and of course it should be requested by the police minister, i.e. Minister of Interior of the Croatian Army. Here only in the area of Vrgorca comes Minister Krsticevic, we have uncontrolled illegal entry and there people do not feel safe. I've been having these villages where the houses are, the very few houses and these young families are afraid, they're in fear because if someone calls you at two o'clock a night that you found a car that was in the garage 10km away from your place then you know what it's about. They're afraid for their children, and the first thing we have to do under the Constitution is to ensure, protect our borders and ensure within these limits the safety of our citizens. I call from this place, for the safety of our citizens, for the safety of their ownership, for the safety of the survival of the people in the area, for economic development, for all the reason that the Croatian military is at the borders in accordance with the law and to protect the borders against illegal entry of migrants. I cannot accept what has been accepted that we are not allowed here to discuss the Marrakech compact, and the examples in the Bundestag have been discussed. As Parliamentarians, I, as Parliament's representative, call upon the authorities to go to the border under the law of the army. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180472	Thank you, colleague Lovrinović, we continue to present the position of the club of representatives, following is colleague Miro Bulj, Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists. Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180473	Thank you very much. Here from this pay phone I often talked about problems in health care where we have health services, in education that implement reforms, and basically the ceilings of students on the head, we have no sponges, no chalk, to wipe the board of sponges, 1001 problems that you colleagues and colleagues here say don't get solved every day in the Republic of Croatia. But today I have to speak on behalf of the MOST club on a topic which has been a month and a half since the last days of the earthquake of an affair related to conflicts within a secret and mystic mass organization, in which information has come out that today's state attorney, Mr. Drazen Jelenic, was a month and a half of a day ago, joined this mystical secret organization of Masonic, a month and a half before HDZ chose him and proposed him and Pedja Grbin and SDP gave a warm support. Is there anyone here that works for the general interest without working for the interests of these secret organizations? Is it possible that in the Republic of Croatia the state's attorney had a masseuse card while Ljiljana Zmijanovic, who had the advantage of the profession in the national park, meant nothing that she was the status of defender? We speak here of the government of Andrej Plenkovic and his responsibility with support, supporting means as a condition to become a state lawyer with a Masonic identity card. Is the state's attorney's interest and public interest ahead of his personal interest? Is this secret organization what the prominent, powerful people and all the social classes and groups say in front of the general interest? Is it so much the influence of the locals within these Masonic organizations that they can call like the chief of the town of Nikica Gabric, who calls the former state attorney, the current deputy as media, Bajic, and gives him orders on how to work? Can the head of the masseuse be filmed by a state's attorney? So where's the interest of the Republic of Croatia? So he put the interest of the Republic of Croatia down here? Yes, it was trampled, the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia was trampled, the institution was hit by a key state attorney of the Republic of Croatia who put the Masonic organization secret ahead of the public because he did not say he was a member of that mysterious mass organization. I ask here the question to the Government of Andrej Plenkovic, is it his responsibility to appoint this man and that the secret services have not done the job? Whose interest is represented by the state's attorney now, if he's been keeping secrets from us, from the MPs, whose interest is he, and what is he protecting? Here's a question I'd like to ask, here's because Chief Nikica Gabrić is a Mason Maester in the Republic of Croatia, maybe he knows something more about our vice president, he was also his driver, Mr. Millian Brkic, maybe everyone knows everything, gave the RH here, what are we? So we're state? The state's attorney of the Republic of Croatia here is supported unanimously by the i.e. Me and MOST voted against, I voted against, some abstentioned, but you Mr. Bačić, so is there any Croatian interest here or is all the interest of secret mystic organizations? How about this? So that's why the Republic of Croatia is falling apart when there's a lot of crime, corruption, war profit, privatisation, they're not doing their job, but they're obviously in front of public interest, the interests of mystic secret mass organizations. The state's attorney should resign, and here is too much responsibility, of course, for the prime minister who proposed him and for you gentlemen who supported him. Andre Plenkovic. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180474	We move to deliver a position on behalf of the club of representatives and independent representatives. On behalf of the Most Independent Lists, Mr. Slaven Dobrović will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180475	Thank you very much. The waste management sector in Croatia has been raising public attention these months. At the state level, bad decisions are dominated, such as an obviously unconstitutional regulation on municipal waste management, and then we are familiar with the decision on order and dynamics of closure of landfills without the right alternative, and the worst is slowness and inefficiency in the construction of national infrastructures, sorters, composts, reuse centres without which we remain unable to meet the objectives of the targeted recycling rate. However, there are activities in the wrong place and concern infrastructure for the processing of unclassified residues whose overall capacity is in fact a measure of failure of the sector. That these are the famous CGOs and ZCGs county waste management centres, for which construction has been being prepared for decades, which are usually in this sector without experience, without competence, and without responsibility. Two already built centres of Mariščina and Kaštijun have a lot of work problems, the contribution to recycling is miserable, the emissions of particles and unpleasant smells are everyday, and one of them is already losing a judicial environmental license. But there is no stopping in Dubrovnik-Neretva County planning a waste management centre in Lucino Distance worth as much as half a billion kuna. In Split-Dalmatia County, a tender worth 330 million kuna is being opened for Lečevica, Zadar County is interested in 377 million worth of investment by CGO Biljana Donja, and it is worth mentioning the carlovacka County that cares for 290 million worth of CGO Babina Gora. In each of these counties, CGOs and ZCGs are the largest investment ever run and controlled by the county authorities. That is why it is so hearty to defend it despite all the arguments of an independent profession, despite common sense and in spite of the devastating experience with Mariščina and Kastion. It is not important that a healthy alternative is up to 10 times cheaper than that these investments do not allow them to achieve goals but rather create threats and damage to the environment and human health. So we gave them public money for expensive clienteletic misery from a solution, and we're not asking for responsibility. As the mayor of Istria and the mayor of the Primorje-Gorski Kotar County are now pretty much on the side when the issue of the work of their centres is raised, so these mayors will now move away once the money is spent, the goals do not meet, and the environment permanently pollutes. And Zagreb, that all the signs are that the clientele and how it is tabled in Zagreb. There is already over a year and a half that a project has been launched to produce study project documentation for the construction of the Centre for Waste Management Zagreb, the price is a small price, 30 million kuna only for documentation. Should it be said that for these money could not be drawn, but done, a good part of the infrastructure to reach the desired, requested recycling rates. It is clear that, always and everywhere in Croatia, the whole process of the idea, carefully designed competitions, the control of the selection of performers, leads to the realization of a specially organised and organized clientele, which I specifically warned the Prime Minister about here in the assembly. Because we know for sure that the minister in charge doesn't see any problem in this. Any hope for a change? Who can make these mayors and others responsible? The HDZ mayors are now in play even if the SDPs are responsible for Mariscina, for Kastijun's IDS mayor. When the common clientele name is party membership is less important. Therefore, my message here today goes to the interested Croatian public, all people ready for some public engagement, there is hope for Croatia's country of prosperity, as long as there are also us ready for public interest and determined to reject attractive customerelistic offers. Without perseverance and togetherness, nothing will change. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180476	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180477	The next club of representatives is that of the Most Independent Lists on behalf of which the respected representative Miro Bulj will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180478	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, I'd like a little bit from the masseuse, the free builders or the masons who have the mystery, they're much more important to me, although these masseuses have taken over all the obvious duties and no longer know who is the knight of which order, who is this free builder, who is the master of whom, who is the driver, is the vice president of the train of this train or that one, you don't know anything anymore and in fact whether there is a parallel system? Today we have witnessed a show of the ruling majority who made the circus of the Republic of Croatia and on the very important issue of the census di would statistically, di, that will be seen statistically after that list of the population in 2021 what they did, it will be an indigo for them to do, what policies they have implemented. Those who today are headed by Andrej Plenkovic, Milorad Pupovac, I don't know, Sauchom, Vrdoljak, Bandic, we must call for economic growth to say that we have economic growth in the Republic of Croatia, but we also have 6.5% of the GDP of the evicted Croats. So... Andrej Plenkovic also conducted a coalition with the SDSS, Milorad Pupovac, HNS, Sauche, whom he did not, conducted a policy that was conducted in the 1960s in Yugoslavia. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Only worse, then people, husbands, left their families, mostly in my neighborhoods and came back, and now they all go away, the whole family. We have examples that mostly we no longer have salaries in the birthplaces of our children which is positive, we see that more and more, less is born in the Republic of Croatia, but more and more is paid at bus stations, grandparents, parents who send their grandchildren, sons, daughters. And that's the policy that's been made here today through the play, this unnatural coalition that just half of the SDP came in, in, in, on the side of HDZ's parliamentary representatives or Bandics, no longer knows who's running the state. So much is the power of all these parallel lines to ask ourselves here, so is there anyone that isn't in these secret organizations of numerous knights, Masons, builders or all those secret organizations. So today, when I look at all the reforms called Andrej Plenkovic, and mostly educational reform, pills, technology, new ways of learning, when we look at all these protests, we see that education has been brought to a level, I'm going to let you know that ceiling schools are falling on children's heads, and the minister is waving laptops here and on, eu Brnazam, a big place near Sinja, 5000 inhabitants, a settlement larger than numerous cities, so I just don't know how people stayed alive, children, and we have a problem with not having a sponge to wipe the board or chalk, it's such a situation today, and that's why young people leave. Why are the young ones leaving? Well, we don't have children's kindergartens of 30% local self-government for one child. And now they're fighting here, they're going to be indigo and Milorad Pupovac and Andrej Plenkovic, they're going to be indigo from their carelessness, they're going to care about whether they don't care if they're taking the country today along with ethnic business, businessman Milorad Pupovac, who I absolutely don't know when he was down in Biljani, in the valley in his own hometown, I go down to see how people live. I'm sorry he didn't stay here, because I don't have a chance to tell him in the face if he doesn't care about those people. The Republic of Croatia is extinct, 2/3 of the Republic of Croatia is empty, and we have not implemented IGP protection policy, since this year, foreigners can buy agricultural land, we are not instructed, irriminating our fields, 700 000 m2, 700 000 m2 we have unprocessed clean preserved agricultural land, and our farmers are going to Ireland to plant potatoes. Is that a population list? As for O.P.G.'s dairy cows, we had 64,000 years ago, today we have 4000. We import EUR 3 billion of food, that's a list of gentlemen you understand about. It is a play of the political oligarchy that has beaten the Croatian people and said enough.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180479	Thank you very much. Here, we've exhausted today's work, we'll continue our work on Wednesday 26th of February at 9.30 p.m. The first item will be the Final Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Gas Market Act, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 824. Have a nice weekend. Session interrupted at 13.37 p.m. ... I want everyone, and I suggest we get to work right away. [[Specially enabled.]] As usual, we will begin by taking a stand on behalf of the clubs and will be the first to speak on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists Bridge, the esteemed representative of Nikola Grmoi, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180481	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I have talked from this booth many times about a specific case of serious corruption suspicion. A case uncovered by Croatian diplomat Damir Sablak. What is important to stress is that these affairs in our embassies took place during Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic and Minister Vesna Pusic, and what is almost incredible in this story, that these affairs have decided to cover up HDZ's ruling majority. The Croatian State Attorney's Office, headed by State Attorney Drazen Jelenic, has in this case been treated as the protector of senior officials at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Why do I find this case important? So anyone who follows, we can say almost already that saga, realizes what message in this case Prime Minister Plenkovic, the Government, and all in support of the DORH. Everything is summed up in two simple thoughts said by the Croatian prime minister. The first was when he told me here to answer the question that such reports, irregularities in state bodies, such as the report of the Sabelak diplomats, are not leading to anything. At that time, the DORH at the public moment of Prime Minister Plenkovic was express, so the same day rejected Mr Sabek's criminal charges and we have no insights to this day. Neither Mr. Sablak nor the Anti-Corruption Council of HS. The second capital thought of Prime Minister Plenkovic spoken in this assembly or I don't know if it was anywhere else, was a statement, I can do what I want. It was described in a simple, honest and open manner by the state of the spirit in what he likes to say to his government. Today in the course of the internal elections, the prime ministers were bold to say he would head up the fight against corruption. The truth is just the opposite. Everything he's done so far, he's been acting as the main sponsor, the mecen and the protector of corruption. In his mandate and the mandate of this government, everything would be done to make the brave people, the declareers of corruption, chicanated, insulted and marginalised. So did Damir Sablak, for his courage to talk about irregularities in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the exposure to a disciplinary procedure, in which he wanted to be sanctioned, and apparently wanted to leave him on the street without a job or a future. That's what the fight against corruption in Croatia looks like, dear gentlemen. Finally, I would also like to say a few words about the kind of Croatian State's Attorney General should be. At the head of the DORH, a person who is brave, who is willing to expose himself, should be aware that criminals will not wait calmly to be arrested and will remain marked with that function for the rest of their lives. That is why we need a person of unquestionable résumé, independent of any interests and influences, the Masonic influences of some other secret organizations, interest groups and any other influences. My assessment is that this assembly with this and this parliamentary majority, it has no power to choose such a person, nor will such a person be proposed by this government. If this were to happen in some incredible acquisition of miraculous circumstances, a new chief state attorney would come for this pay phone immediately after the vote, thank you for the appointment, and then forward him in the direction of Remetinca would personally escort some who may be sitting in this hall today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180482	Mr. Miro Bulj will present the views of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists Bridge, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180483	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, here we see now that the problem is the virus, the Corona virus. However, I am now going to talk about one, also an economic and economic big problem, which due to the lack of work, the carelessness of all institutions simply raises only the project which is the most funded, mostly from EU funds, are agglomeration systems. Only in the Cetitian province, where I come from, is 670 million kuna, the project of a Split swimming pool, so, with Kaštela, somewhere around 2 billion kuna, there goes as much as 3 billion kuna. A project that must be completed by 2023 means the end. We have a problem with these agglomeration systems, i.e. disposal and sewerage are simply not all the particles solved, property-legal relations because in the offices of the state administration, and now county, examples in Sinj, where 2,000 particles were to be cleaned, i.e. the path where they pass, the property-legal relations where the sewers and drains pass, nor 70% are cleared of those particles. And now there's a problem. So we're the funds we have planned for agglomerations, for the example of Sinj, through which, through the city centre, an open sewerage problem, where an open sewerage enters the sea, we're questioning this project because we don't have enough examples in Sinj, only one worker is in that office now county. Only one on the settlement of property-legal relations. And in offices where there is no need, there is no need in offices where such a number of people are not needed, it's simply blocked. So, once again, I warn the ministry of jurisdiction and of, and Croatian waters and waters of local and local self-government, if this project is not completed by 2023, the agglomeration system will fail only in the Split-Dalmatia County 3 billion kuna. And now it's questionable when that competition is called, whether it's going to be operational enough to be done by 2023 because we're going to have to pay for the penalty from our budget. A colleague from HSS mentioned well, the problems that arise around the Coronal virus, meaning, which will cause great damage to everyone and to the economy, the economy and, of course, I would like, here is a recommendation to the prime minister, the competent ministers, as we chair the EU, that big damage will be caused by our OPGs, our tourist workers who do business, that they will have damage. Do they have estimates and that... Model i.e. The way they are already, if they are calling for the EU, we are preside over, that the EU will provide us with the funds for these damages that will take place in tourism, for the damages that will take place in, on the CAPs in agriculture and in any other branch. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In this case, as the colleague also spoke about road workers, i.e. The driver. Let it be sovereign this time and let it tell people here who came from Brussels or Brussels, but when we manage, to secure the resources that will arise, not only health consequences, but also on the issue of spreading the Coronus virus will cause economic and economic problems in the Republic of Croatia. And do we have at all some kind of strategy to protect the small family economy in case there is an impact, if those projections, influential small farmers, small craftsmen, father state aid or some Prime Minister Plenkovic, when we are preside over the issue, raise the issue that from EU funds from certain funds, or now the budget is being put in place to help our farmers, OPGs, entrepreneurs, our craftsmen, all who are going to have damage to these due to the appearance of the virus that will obviously be. It will have certain damages or it will happen that what we have imported from Italy will not be able to import because we will probably not be able to do it because of the controls, so we come to a situation where we need to be clear and protect the survival of ours that this virus is causing the survival of our economies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180484	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180485	Dear colleagues and colleagues, good morning, it's Wednesday, the first day of the plenary session of the week and we have free debates. So, the first is the esteemed colleague Miro Bulj on behalf of the Club of Representatives of Independent Lists. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180486	Thank you very much. Our colleagues and colleagues here are witnessing that the EU is changing the paradigm, that borders are being protected from illegal migrant entry. We can see that the key in Europe's hands is from a wave of migrants in Erdogan. So the EU's bad policies have come to an end and the dependence on Erdogan is obviously too great. However, all who have referred to a European solution have obviously made a mistake. They gave great tools, too many tools in the hands of one man and did not know how to deal with the crisis. However, I will point out here what I've been saying for months, and these are illegal entry of migrants into the Republic of Croatia. I spoke 5-6 months ago about a problem over border areas where migrants enter counter-regularly. They enter uncontrollably and, of course, endanger security and do enormous material damage to our citizens in this area in this case, here I will give an example, but this is along the entire border area south of the Gorski Kotar all the way down towards the meaning of the south, according to Dalmatia. That's the case I've talked about several times, to the man whose car was stolen from the garage at 2:00 p.m., in the village of Orah in Vrgorec. The man's name is Mate Vujcic, and at 2:00 p.m., he was called by the police to find his car on the roof, broken all the way down. His personal car was stolen from the garage. I wrote, that shame, the migrant was arrested, the migrant was convicted, paroled and left, but no harm can be charged to the man who, the man who is an illegal migrant. And so hundreds of people. But this man had to lift up, he must have this criminal court when he convicted the sea this before the suit against the Republic of Croatia filed a request for peace, the DORH instead of answering the man within 3 months, not today to the man DORH, and 4 months had passed long ago, and within 3 months. Now a man has to sue the state, and it's the state's fault that an illegal migrant has entered the border. All this is going on too long, and if the state loses the lawsuit, they're going to have to pay the damages, the costs of the proceedings and the lawyers, the interest. The state must, gentlemen, ensure the mechanisms for the compensation of people who suffer concrete damage from illegal migration. The state has a duty to damage these people. The issue needs Andrej Plenkovic, who now holds the EU presidency to EU level. And we already had to consume the law passed in 2016. Croatian Army at Croatian borders. That no harm happens and that, to our citizens and that people do not feel threatened in these areas both for themselves and for their property. I see the climate is changing now, they say we have legal conditions from 2016, then MOST was the one who suggested it, then he had this ministry, and I think it's minimal what we should have done. Not tomorrow, but before. We have an obligation to protect the security of citizens, the security of their property, the security of the economy, the security of tourism, economic security because in these areas, people have a hard time living anyway. Demographic measures absolutely are missing for these areas, people live on agriculture and have a hard time living and are still living in fear of illegal migrants. I call on Andrej Plenkovic, who is changing the paradigm now to primarily protect the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and to find mechanisms to compensate people who suffer concrete damage from illegal migration. And I call on him to raise this issue to EU level to protect Croatian citizens and to fund the EU. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180487	The next club will be the MoST's independent list on behalf of which the respected representative Miro Bulj will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180488	Thank you very much. Here, today we talk all day about projections of climate change and what awaits us, but I will be.../incomprehensible/... real life and what is happening in the area regarding illegal dumps, I mentioned this earlier in my debate, I will talk about former miners where the former miners had an obligation to recapture those miners after the exploitation, unfortunately the miners were not recovered, instead of having a problem of wild dumplings in those mines I will specify a number of examples where we have in our village where I live, because I was born by the miners only we were an exploitation field, but when it was supposed to be a recovery, it happened that those companies had gone into bankruptcy and so the Pilates washed their hands and legislation cared there in case that simply people couldn't do this, that they couldn't, that they couldn't get rid of those bloody wounds. In the area of the Cetinski area are numerous miners, here it was recently meant after the salty rocks several years ago there was coffee in Brnaza mining ex, now we have a problem in the village of Kosute which is located in the town of Trilja where the abandoned coffee known for the roast or sand that was used and sold throughout Dalmatia, BiH as a raw material for rolling and building, there has been a digging and coal for decades for the famous Sinj Rera, a feratta rera that worked from the 903th century to 1962, unfortunately now this miner has become a wild dump for the whole of Dalmatia and simply a few years ago people asked to resuscitate that, with construction waste of that hole, i.e.e. The miner, unfortunately, did not settle, but happened to bring not only construction waste but also municipal waste and the last few days, a few days ago people protested in the village of Kosuta, I repeat, it is in the town of Trilj. The town of Trilj washes its hands that the law does not allow it, the constructor who owns it is in bankruptcy, so people are simply, Trilj put some kind of obstacle a few years ago, a barrier that opened and now everyone in the region of Dalmatia is putting off that waste that was not selected and it became a dump. So in the Cetina region, it's not just the waste and recovery problem of Mojanka, which is now intended to send waste, it's still a living solution but we're not going to allow, but the bloody wounds of the distinguished secretaries, when you're already here, are the miners who haven't done the recovery because simply these companies went bankrupt, they've been neatly exploited, they've profited from these citizens, and today they're not rehabilitated, and now they're wild dumps in the Vetin region, and we know what that means. In this case, I'm talking about coffee in the mines, we say coffee in the village of Kosuta, where people have objected and won't stop at that. I also asked the Minister what he would do today because I see the mayor of Trilla supporting the initiative, but that the problem is insolvent. Who will solve the problem of the wild dump, 100 tons, but we need to know that the ton of municipal waste and 400 kuna waste on dumps, and that's where the tows come every day, on a single boat of 15 thousand kunas is saved, and polluting the environment, polluting the tributaries of the Cetina River and the Kostunicas have ordered this time as before the Brnažani, as well as my Suhaćan and Karakasicians on these numerous miners who are not rehabilitated that they will not become this Kerepovac and wild dump. I don't know what you're going to do, but I know citizens won't allow this kind of behavior. I call on the Ministry of the Environment, the Environment Fund to take some measures, a lot of the Pilate Hand Laundering, the Environmental Fund, the Mayor of the City of Trilj, the mayor and the mayor of the other municipalities, all the pens of the Pilate Arms, the company of the Pilate Arms, and the former miners who were neatly exploited and was a huge profit, washed hands or went into bankruptcy regardless of what they had a legal obligation to resuscitate. This is what we need to talk about. Stop immediately at the end. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180489	Now we move to the next daily item of the agenda, meaning the application for presentation means the presentation of the position, excuse me, on behalf of the Club of Representatives and Independent Representatives. The first is on behalf of the Most, Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180490	Thank you very much. On this Friday, I welcome you colleagues and fellow MPs who are here, and they, and I welcome Parliamentarians and MPs wherever, wherever they are, wherever they are. Yesterday there was a meeting of the Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia on the position of Croatian national minorities, there were Croatian minorities from several countries, our compatriots, who presented their daily problems, which they face daily. In some countries, unfortunately, such as in Serbia, the position of the Croatian minority is little to say very difficult and unfavourable. And what could be heard by representatives of Mr. Zigman's national minority in Croatia in the Republic of Serbia is more than worrying. It should be recalled that the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia concluded there in 2004, signed an international agreement on relations with minorities who have committed and guaranteed certain rights to the Serb minority in Croatia and the Croatian minority in Serbia in 2005. The agreement is based on the principle of reciprocity, but in practice the Republic of Serbia does not respect it. So, for example. The Croatian minority in Serbia does not guarantee the right of representatives in parliament i.e. The National Assembly of Serbia. Before the president of the Republic of Serbia announced parliamentary elections in Serbia and Croatian representatives, our compatriots can only participate in the general lists, not on special lists, as have examples of the Serb national minority and other national minorities in the Republic of Serbia. At a meeting of the Croatian Committee outside the Republic of Croatia, we heard alarming news about the spread of the Croatian minority by local and state authorities in the Republic of Croatia. The Croats suffer in Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, violence and insults, and no one reacts, neither the government of Serbia, but unfortunately neither the Croatian government nor the embassy do anything. So in early February, the windows were broken on the Croatian company Stjepana Radic's building in Slankamen in this year, 10 days later, a Croatian society was robbed in Ljubi near the border with Croatia and so constantly in increasing the Chetnica led by Vojislav Seselj, and of course his beginner Vukić Croats have absolutely no rights. For this reason, the reciprocity signed in 2004 was ratified in the Republic of Serbia by the Serb national minority with 3 MPs guaranteed, 4 state secretaries, 11 mayors, 40 mayors and captains, and Croats in Serbia our compatriots zero. I must also point out that in the meaning of the Republic, we also have a huge disproportionate in money, when compared with the data that Serbs in Croatia receive by minority, and how many Croats in Serbia, Croats receive 1 kuna per minority member, and Serbs in Croatia 37 kuna per member of the national minority. In fact, there is, we do not have, there is a Croatian minority who does not have the right to his representative, regardless of the reciprocity, guaranteed, and here is the Serb national minority in the majority. So is that reciprocity? And that's why I promised to go and see the Croats live in Serbia at the invitation of Mr. Zigmanov. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180491	We are now going to a respected colleague, Bozo Petrov, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of Independent Lists, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180492	Thank you. In recent months, the whole world has been shaking under an epidemic of coronary viruses already feeling fat in the Republic of Croatia. And this virus affects everything, doesn't work selectively, affects both highly developed countries and those so-called countries. Third world. It affects our health, our social relations, but what's most important, affects among others the economy. I beg you don't stick your head in the sand like an owl, as it was already done in 2008 at the threshold of recession when those who were then in power in the Republic of Croatia told us that we were economically independent, that this would not affect us. In the end, when they put their heads in the sand, we felt the recession for the next 10 years. This epidemic, these disturbances that are happening today on the economic market, affect all of us, will affect all of us. We need to take measures, we need a precise plan with concrete proposals, we need to adapt all of our measures, amortize and prepare the economy to get out of everything that's going to happen as soon as possible. You can't close your eyes, you're not bigger than China, you're not stronger than Italy, but unlike them, you still have enough time to prepare. You have different proposals that already appear in the public, than the state acts and intervenes more strongly in the context of sickness benefits, so that all people who have suspicion of the disease should report. In addition, proposals on the moratorium of tax payments, other charges for entrepreneurs appear and the like. Taking care of this situation, we will present you with a few proposals from our economic programme MOST which we believe should be introduced in normal situations, especially in this situation. First of all, I would like to remind you that our entrepreneurs are paying a profit tax fee. This means that entrepreneurs pay in advance a month's tax on that calculation, according to an estimate of how, as they did last year, so now tell me if it's normal for tourist agencies, do you expect that, if you expect tourist agencies to have the same profit now as they did last year without this epidemic, when you have literally higher power today, it's not normal, it's not real, it's not correct. Second, the second proposal that we make to stop taxing the reinvested profits of entrepreneurs, which means that all the money, all the profits that entrepreneurs make and that they want to return to their company so they don't get taxed, and that's what we believe, will be easier to start the economy, there will be less damage. In addition, we believe that, in companies, the costs of the team in tax terms are recognised as 100%. Why? Because then you'll increase your domestic consumption. And as far as we could see, the significant share of GDP you base on exactly domestic consumption, then you have to do it in a certain way and stimulate it. All of these are only part of the measures to be taken. We believe that the aid to the economies at the moment when they are literally struck by a higher power, that it should exist, that there should be a concrete plan. After all, all these measures that we have proposed to you at this point I will say that we have proposed them under standard circumstances because we believe that the economy should be encouraged because jobs will be opened, especially in these circumstances, do not put your head in the sand.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180493	Mr. Miro Bulj will present the positions of the Most, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180494	Thank you very much. Dear citizens you are watching, we all know that Croatia has been given to God a country for the production of the most quality agricultural products and food. I have often spoken from this place, and often others have repeated, Croatia is only as strong as the Croatian village. This crisis, which is happening between us because of the coronary virus, shows how important it is that Croatia has strong agricultural production that meets its needs. Unfortunately, Croatia imports more than 2.5 billion euros in food products. Unfortunately, import lobbys, vermin within the ministries have led to the situation that Croatia is at risk of any threat, the question is that there will be enough food and food products from its own cultivation. However, the fact is that in Croatia we have 790,000 square metres of raw agricultural land that is mainly being prepared for sale to foreign legal and physical persons. So just today after this threat more than ever I call everyone, let's buy home and local products and food, let's buy all Croatian. It is important that we all participate in the preservation of production in Croatia and help our peasants and the OPGs survive. Finally, we must abandon the harmful policies of import lobbys that have ruined domestic agriculture in favour of these same import lobbys. So I call once again on all citizens, all of us individuals, to together once again, a strong message. Let's buy some homework, buy some locals, buy some in Croatian peasants. Let's buy Croatian agricultural products. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180495	And on behalf of the Representatives' Club of the Independent Lists Bridge, we will again hear the respected representative Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180496	Thank you very much. Here, we see that in Croatia what happens in both our neighbouring countries and the world to threaten us and that we have now faced ourselves, that we are now in front of the wall and that we simply need to keep warning and speak what is most important, which is production, preservation of production and food products, and otherwise production, is the coronaryvirus that will cause inconspicuous consequences. We still don't know what's going to happen, however, is the fact that we, as parliamentary representatives from this place, need to repeat constantly buying domestic products, investing in agricultural production, investing in the economy and in the survival of our people in these areas. Unfortunately, here we see that now these results will be threatened to show that what are the effects we do not have production, i.e. which we import 2.5 billion euros in food products, but here, I expect all of us to promote our domestics, buy our domestics, protect the Croatian village and peasants, and thus we will ensure the future no matter what we find ourselves at this point in the threat. And once again, let's buy some homework. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180497	Thank you very much. That's what we're done with today's work and we'll continue our work on Wednesday, March 18, at 9.30. The first item will be the proposal for a law on the execution of prison sentences, first reading, P.Z. No. 852. I wish you a pleasant weekend and that the less we have of the newly ill of the Crown in the state. Thank you. Session interrupted at 2.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180498	We are going to the 5th debate, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists of Honored Fellow Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180499	Thank you very much. My fellow citizens and fellow citizens, first of all, on behalf of the MOST Club, on behalf of all of us, I would like to thank our health professionals who are on the front line of defense, our workers and shop workers, in the hospitality that still work, all those volunteers who selflessly sacrifice themselves to help our helpless, all those who make a selfless contribution to this crisis get over, this threat that is ahead of us, which is ongoing. That's why when we talk about this crisis, then we have to say what this crisis has caused and that paradigm we need to change. We all have to ask ourselves how much together we have done as policies for the self-sustainability of the Croatian economy, Croatian agriculture, Croatian economy. Unfortunately, in the Republic of Croatia we import more food than ever, we gentlemen today have agricultural land that is unprocessed, we today have agricultural land 800,000 square miles that are unencumbered, we have state land that is not divided by our peasants. We need to turn urgently right now in this crisis and in this food production threat. We must protect the Croatian peasants, if the Croatian village is not at the helm of any threat, let alone in this threat that we have from this virus, then we will have inconceivable consequences. Personally, I think that we all try to make ourselves available and that we all want to invite all of our citizens together to behave responsibly. We must all help regardless of opposition or ruling government measures, however, it is expected from the government that certain measures offered by the opposition will be adopted. This is a time when there is no political outwitting and competition. We all know that MOST of Independent Lists has made much of a proposal and may have been the most critical towards the government of the Republic of Croatia, according to Andrej Plenkovic and his government, but at this point only we remain a consensus in the fight for, against this crisis. Not only about the health crisis but also the economic survival of people in the Republic of Croatia. Like I said from agriculture, tourism, economies of all kinds and branches. And that is why the measures that the Most will and will propose and which he has already proposed in the next debates I expect that we will all look together and see and bring what is best at this point. The most important message is to change the paradigm, rely on our strength, return people to areas to live, produce and lead the Croatian village. Because if we don't have a rich peasant, we won't even have a rich country. Unfortunately 2/3 of Croatia is empty. This crisis is all about making ourselves available. And once again, I invite all those who can help, to my neighbor who's older, to get us all involved. Of course, we all need to stick to preventive measures and follow the instructions of our respective services. We all need to make a contribution to ourselves, which is why the MOST of Independent Lists as a party has made all its natives available to the national headquarters in the fight against this virus. And we give everything and I believe that we will all together, the Croatian people have been through many crises, this is an invisible enemy, and that in unity, harmony and unity we will win this virus and that in unity, we will all end up changing the paradigm as winners and that Croatia will live. And finally, in the end, let me just say, to all of us, now we just have to be one person, just people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180500	As we announced yesterday, we're now going to move to a position on behalf of the club. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns and Independent Representatives Željko Glasnović and Zlatko Hasanbegovic, the Honorable Representative Zeljko Glasnović was to speak, is not here, losing his right to speak. Next on behalf of the Intruder on the side, he doesn't understand. Okay, well, of course, the SDP counseling club is pulling, okay. On behalf of the Club, the representative of the Most respected representative of Ines Strenja is. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180501	Thank you. Despite the frequent dissatisfaction about how we operate in the peacetime conditions of the extreme situation, we are often shown in the best light both in good and in bad and in football and in war and in this coronary virus. We don't know what's waiting for us in Croatia, and we can only epidemiologically predict the worst scenarios like Italian, but so far, it seems like we're having a three-point spread curve. In other words, we have a solid passing time in relation to our neighbors and the world. I believe that at this point in time, we must especially thank the National Crisis Command, which takes us step by step at this time of crisis. What I want to tell you from this position is this. As for a number of other medical conditions here, the choice is much more learned in our hands and consists in inaction, non-dating, non-gathering, non-socialization. Let's show community in distance. It's up to you fellow citizens and it's because of you. Some of us can do less than others because calling them is an active concern about our health and your health. Doctors and other medical personnel are on the first line of defense. They are also at the greatest risk of infection and are aware of this exposure, help, organize and sacrifice, work without rest without saving themselves as well as in peace only more and more difficult. At this point, 14,000 doctors and 30,000 nurses are working and there is a huge burden on them that they will carry on their backs and we firmly believe in. So, at this point they will work even harder and more dangerously, and I would like the Croatian public to recognize and appreciate it. I appeal to the media to avoid sensationalism under the cover of transparency. I also welcome and do not downplay all those on whom the state will depend during this period, and these are those that will allow the normal functioning of the state and I particularly welcome both salesmen and truck drivers and all volunteers of the Red Cross and all other associations who faithfully and every day despite the dangers of making this country function normally. I apologize to all those I forgot to say hello at the moment. At present, nothing is normal, and the premonition of normal behavior in abnormal circumstances raises common sense. So I ask you all to strictly adapt to these war conditions in which classical courage is no longer a virtue. Moral maxes for all of us are the same. Avoid society and contact. I said the state of emergency is like war, but fortunately, it's not a real war. The epidemics have their own legality and it is certain that in a few months this one will be behind us. That's why we keep our heads cool. Panic doesn't do any good. Let us especially worry about our oldest, most fragile, most vulnerable outcomes, and primarily care about our own behavior. But let's worry and actively so we're at their service. This kind of situation reminds us of the general and specific social values, unquestioned truths, what is really valuable, the solidarity that determines every individual destiny, the meaning of public health to which neither history nor present, and certainly the future finds no alternative, to a country that determines us physically, spiritually, geographically and socially, which is greater and stronger than any money and material treasure and to a country that, with a good strategy that today represents the crisis headquarters and the health minister provides the greatest security. This is a time of contempt for selfishness, lies, pride, greed and superficiality. Yesterday we specifically talked about war profit, today they sent me from several places from Croatia an ordinary box, a box of massacres, masks of the cheapest ones that were 50 limes, now that one box is 480 kuna, so 50 pieces of 480 kuna plus VAT. Shame on you, shame on you. So, a time when hypocrisy, sweet talk, empty rhetoric, or political demagogy does not pass, a time when every wrong move comes to the charge, a time when we must have faith in others and act so that others have faith in us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180502	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180503	Mr. Miro Bulj will present the position of the Club of Representatives of Independent Lists, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180504	Thank you very much. Companions and colleagues, respected citizens. I would just like to begin by commending, the example of my colleague and colleague before me were talking about protective masks, the problem of medical equipment. I would only take a short chance here to point out the positive examples of those tailors who have closed their salons and free of charge with their material and all that means the products of these masks, this is an example of the associated women, mostly women who had tailoring salons in Sinj and now have a few dozen of them working together with masks and for the lung department, for the Split hospital, for the House of Health Sinj, for maternity care, means free work while these things are being closed and thanked from the heart, I will commend them here my Sinjka and probably my heart is big, they have a big Chetino blue heart, but I would commend all the other jobs that work and other jobs, but here is the example of women who have now closed, have no support, while other war profiters sell what was 5 lp, I said, here my colleague Curaj of HNS, I am glad to say that HNS is precisely, when I answered that this is that the war profits which are now have been made by the 50 kps. It's war profit. It's the worst form of inhumanity. If we have anything here right now, here we are in this House, opposition or ruling, it's to be human, to be human, and that's why any bad means what's wrong, it's to be punished, war profit, if war is declared. in the fight not with the mouse but against the enemy who carries the rifle but against the crown of the virus. Once again, thank all these people, here I have pointed out, it is tailors from where I come from, but I also see in all of Croatia that there are people who, while locked up, show that human line and we need solidarity. And when we talk about solidarity, then we need to start from top to bottom. If you need to cut down, I don't know, pay, I don't know civil society associations, so we need to pump all that money up for job survival. We now have to change the paradigm, I have given a number of laws mainly on agricultural land, agriculture and import problems. To be self-sufficient because we have a Slavonia that could feed 20 million people, today we have 800,000 ha of land is agricultural, clean under the weeds and 400,000 ha is the property of the state. For 2 years, if we had passed the law, only 11,000 km2 was divided, not 2%. I gave one law, and I asked the prime minister here, that our main problem is food and import production, the food products that we import 2.5 billion. And we're less exporting a billion euros, and that's sad. Because we addicts have become import foods. Import lobbys have done some damage and we need to change the paradigm. I also gave the law in the procedure that would have been removed, so if the state, the ministry, gave local self-governments to make land allocation programmes, this must be given the opinion of the county. And the county's giving it back. Why? Because he wants to control it. Well, that should be thrown out, so I'm going to give Prime Minister Plenkovic or Minister Vukkovic every authority to divide the country into a Croatian peasant. And I'm going to repeat again what's important, if we don't change now that we have to produce more, mainly food, food, to import grain, cereal products. The bread, the pastry we import frozen, it's a disaster. We import pork and we weeds on agricultural land. I support them to share land immediately before sowing, now these 400,000 hectares of state land, produce domestic, buy domestic, buy local, change from this difficult health situation to paradigm, change it completely. We ran the wrong policies, so let's face it. It was all about import lobbys. I always mention the pomidores from Italy in the tourist season we import, and the Sinjsko polje unprocessed, the clear river Cetina goes we have no irrigation system. At this point, let's buy our own home, give the land to the agricultural Croatian peasant, without the strong peasants there is no strong Croatian state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180505	Let's move on 10 is at the work of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, respected colleague Bozo Petrov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180506	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, today we are sitting in this building is just one of the images of the extraordinary situation in which our country was found. Today we could, too, have witnessed these weeks and those earthquake images of the destruction of the City of Zagreb, including those of the much more difficult earthquake images of older, powerless people who hit this crisis. On the other hand, there were those images that sting, those images that lift the spirit, which are all those people who are fighting in Croatia today with this crisis by health professionals, police officers, all those who have been burdened by this particular crisis. What matters is we are the ones who choose pictures, especially those images that we will witness in the future because at this point we are struggling with those first short-term measures both in health and in the economy. We know that this crisis will not only be a health crisis but we can see it on the pier and the house very well and the economic crisis. And in the economy the rules apply almost the same as for health, the coronary virus will be much easier to hit by the person who is immunocompromised, who is at risk of health, much harder to hit the person who is healthy. The same way the economy works. Countries with a solid healthy, strong economy will get out of this crisis much faster than countries that have remained on only one economic activity, tourism. But this isn't the time to cry, I'd say this is our chance to do something, so if all the calls in recent years on different sides weren't enough to finally start doing something, so maybe this is a real incentive. Maybe this is the moment where we should finally start thinking long-term. We finally need to be the country and I think we can do it and I think it's the right time. We finally need to be a country that is not dependent on imports, but an export country, finally a country that produces something concrete and added value products. And if we're going to approach in the right way, if we choose the right measures of the medium- and long-term ones, we won't depend on just one economic activity, and we don't need to be afraid if someone is going to sneeze and we're going to lose jobs and we're going to end up choosing whether we're going to have pictures of the future that are happy, which is either bold or we're going to have earthquake images because we're going to have people on the streets. I would therefore call on the government and all those who are political actors today to put their heads together, all these measures we listen to in the short term, they are short-term, yes, it is necessary to free entrepreneurs from contributions so that people can keep their jobs, that they should put grants into the economy because entrepreneurs feed this country and the state with them should share the risk of all this. Yes, you need to put a moratorium on loans, you need to cancel the profit tax fee, all that is necessary, but these are short-term measures, medium-term and long-term measures, and I call on the state not to run away from what it needs to do in the first place, which is cutting all costs. Today in a crisis like this you can see clearly which parts of the system, the public system are needed and vital, which are not and that is what the state needs to cut immediately. All the money collected in such a way should be poured into the economy and that is the only way that we can choose those better pictures, those that bold and do not hesitate, with every day of hesitation can only be worse for us. With every day as fast as we can, we'll get out of the crisis faster, we'll help not just us. It's for the people who are close. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180507	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180508	Following is the position of the Club of Representatives of the CNS. Since there is no representative, Milorad Batinic, the position of the HDS, HSLS and HDSB Club Club stands, and there is no Croatian representative. Next is the presentation of the position of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists Bridge, as there is Representative Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180509	My colleagues and colleagues, the Honorable Chairman. Markets for agricultural and domestic products are closed. We need to open markets urgently, of course, by following the measure. Because if we do not open markets, both milk and agricultural products will have to be spilled, and we will continue to import dairy products and agricultural products. They're mainly at risk now, so people who, I'm going to say, here's the example, here's the time of strawberries, where they're going to sell strawberries? Where milk will be sold and where agricultural fruit material will be sold, and we know that many people at this point have their own nursery that will sell fruit material, now it is time to plant, sow. And we've closed markets, while at the same time in this crisis we import agricultural products. Vanca markets can also, with certain measures, be maintained and sold, domestic cheese, domestic acid or cream, domestically, all domestic products. Well, my men, we cannot isolate our village and peasants and import foreign products. They've been isolated anyway, left alone with them for years. Instead of promoting the purchase of domestic products in the markets now, to organise measures in the markets, to stick to the measures set by the headquarters, because it is an external space, better than in the trade chains. More vulnerable are the cashiers in the chain of commerce than our grandmothers who sell on the market there, on towels, sell domestic products. We all have to send a message from this place together. So, guys, what's wrong with us? Well, we can't shut down a domestic farmer now that our guy who milked cows this morning has to spill milk because he doesn't have to sell it. And homemade creams and homemade fresh cheese, so we're all at risk. So what do we do now? In trade chains to buy goods supplies from foreign producers? I think we should put an end to this right now. So let's buy our own home and organize, absolutely with the measures required by headquarters to be controlled according to local headquarters, civilian headquarters, civil protection headquarters, to organise it in sales markets. If it can't be 30 grandmothers, it has to be 9. And to organize with the help of civilian headquarters all measures of protection. And a way to stay that production. Or example, now the planting material. How they'll sell fruit material to a farm, our farmers, who deal with it, who have their own greenhouses, plastics. In what way, florists, how will our domestics sell it? Where are they gonna sell that? That's what they used to sell mostly in the markets. At cattle fairs that aren't there now, but the markets are their only way and that's how traditions and customs are done. Therefore, I call once again, to protect domestic producers who are raising their voice more and more. Let's stop the import lobby, see now the results of the import lobby and the damage done to our production. We know that we import food from 2.5 billion euros and even import from cereals products, bread, pastries, pork. What do we do now? This year, we're not gonna plant anything. We simply have to look at these measures that people can pass from one municipality to another community, to process in tractors, of course, alone, there won't be 10 in tractors. And if the markets don't open, if the markets don't open, the village will be destroyed. We, with all measures, respecting measures, do not say here that the measures given by the National Headquarters are not respected, but that, in coordination with civil headquarters, civil protection on local self-government, regional, sales are organised in domestic products markets. Because we're gonna end them this way. In trade chains, we can buy foreign cheese, foreign products, and homemade vervain strawberries, how are we going to sell them? Come explain to me how we're gonna sell them, now here they come to stork in a week or two. How are we going to sell, here's an example. So open markets immediately with all measures to be respected. If foreign goods can be sold, food products in trade chains, I don't see any reason not to sell on our markets. Open up the markets immediately. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180510	The next position is the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj on behalf of the Most Independent List Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180511	Thank you very much. I would also take advantage of this moment here at the end of this week's meeting to send thanks once again to those who are on the first line from doctors, health workers to traders to all who are now working, and, above all, police officers, firemen, all soldiers, all those who have a responsibility and who are responsible for maintaining this system and after this health crisis, we must think about preserving our domestic production. I warned i.e. yesterday. pointed to the problem of closing markets, at the moment when we import Italian vegetables and fruit, it is forbidden to export Croatian products, so we have a problem that literally our milkers, cheese producers, cream producers, fruit producers, vegetables, simply what can not last long will have to throw these products away. In order to protect domestic production, we now have to change the entire paradigm today and my law here was included in the emergency procedure, let the free government prescribe it, that finally the land is agriculturally owned by the Republic of Croatia, 400,000 hectares, 400,000 hectares of state property totaling just under 800,000 hectares of agricultural land is under weed, clean land. So, I call on the Government to share this land in a shortened procedure without any obligation or concessions, but to those who want to work, not to be under the weeds. And there's a huge problem with these people who are now producing, an example of me being called people who are dealing, who are producing Vrgorian, Vrgorje strawberries, in which way they're going to distribute it now. I therefore call on the national headquarters last night and said they would allow the market to open in certain closed spaces, but there is a market in every quarter of Zagreb that can be controlled and protected by the measures we have. So here in my town of Sinj, there's a market too, so there are better conditions here and safer conditions can be created than I repeat in the trade chains. So urgently open up to the instructions and measures that we have in our trade chains where mostly import goods to open our markets urgently because people don't have where our small OPG producers have nowhere to go with their goods. And the obligation of all local headquarters, not only to organise those sales in the markets and the way and model of delivery of those goods. Now that the people, the municipalities are separated from one of the, examples of the separate Sinj from the Croats so where the ones with the Croatian products, where the ones with the Vrgorje products, so we must urgently find the model and that model is simple. If they are more endangered, I repeat them to the cashiers in the trade chains than those of our grandmothers who should be organised, of course, according to the instructions and rules of the national headquarters and all the measures to start urgently selling this agricultural product from our OPGs. We'll just destroy what's left, while at the same time we're importing it all from other countries. So, we don't have any reason not to open the markets urgently. Last night it was said to open, the National Post, the market, but the terms of this. We don't have time to wait. Today there must be open markets in accordance with the measures to be respected and bought domestic products, to buy domestically, to buy Croatian, to buy local ones, so we have no other messages now, to change the paradigm. If we have so far enjoyed import lobbys, is it simply 2.5 billion, 2.5-3 billion euros we import food products, and we have never invested in agriculture again, therefore incentives, and we have never produced less. We import pork, import bakery products, while our 800,000 square acres are under the weeds. At this point, I would only conclude, immediately open the markets, if we can sell foreign imported agricultural products in trade chains can also be sold according to the measures in Zagreb and Split, and Sinj and Osijek our domestic products is the only way to survive our OPGs. At this moment of crisis, we need to change the paradigm, focus on our own production, according to self-sustainability, and for that, the Republic of Croatia has conditions. Only a Slavonic field can feed half of Europe, not be under our weeds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180512	I thank Representative Buljo.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180513	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I welcome you all. We're going back to work. Just a few sentences before we start free debates. On behalf of all MPs and deputies, I would once again like to express my gratitude to all those who, in these difficult moments, care for our health, for our safety. First of all, I'd like to thank the doctors, the nurses, the medical staff. I would also like to thank the Croatian police and the inspectorate, in the case of Zagreb, HV, firefighters, all the services that participated in the recovery of the earthquake. I would also like to thank all those workers, cashiers, merchants, our carriers, all who allow life to go to the Republic of Croatia as normal as possible given the circumstances in which we are. Here I looked at today if you remember when you just started last week on Wednesday, there were 18 thousand in the world and about 600 dead of the coronary virus, today that number is over 42000, so only in 7 days more than 24000 people died of the coronary virus. As far as the Republic of Croatia is concerned, thank God they are not at these levels, and I hope that we will succeed in resisting the challenges that this coronary virus brings with it. So, once again, thank you all, thank you to the people who run the Civil Protection Command, but I repeat once again, especially to those who are on the first line. Let's go now with our work. As we have announced, the first is to take a position of clubs and then we have two points of the agenda today. The first is the esteemed colleague Miro Bulj on behalf of the Club of Representatives of Independent Lists, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180514	Thank you very much, President, colleagues and colleagues. In this coronaryvirus crisis, which is both health care and economic and any crisis, I think it would be worth the honorary president, colleagues and colleagues at the very beginning to remember the death of the first Croatian director Josip Jovic. I see yesterday there were delegations from the president, the MUP, the council, I don't know, I didn't get the information...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180515	He was an envoy, a minister and my HS.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180516	I think it would be good to remember in the assembly that first victim of that first Croatian tear for freedom. I think it is good in these moments to remember this union, and Josip Jovic as the first victim for the freedom of the Croatian people is basically an example of how we are trying to fight in difficult times for the Republic of Croatia and that their sacrifice is not in vain. So here I would like to at least stand up for a moment and remember and honor First Officer Josip Jovic, as well as all the other Croatian defenders who have put their lives in the foundations of the Republic of Croatia. Here I would now go with what I thought, briefly I would just say that the same thing as the president said to all the services and volunteers of the people who are in the Red Cross, in Civil Protection at lower levels, are not visible, I know the volunteer myself, I work with them, I cooperate with them, these are the same great victims who give their time, risk their health to help most of our powerless and elderly. Well, I'd just go in here and say, like I said, you'd quote that freedom is the most important thing. He would quote here Ivan Gundulić, who wrote back in the 17th century, “All silver, all gold, all human lives cannot be paid to your clean lipo. ” So when we talk about freedom, then we can't allow the crisis to be produced through people becoming chipped on their cell phones. Freedom is important, the crisis is difficult. Self-insulation must be respected, and self-insulation must be punished, those who violate it. However, about such a beautiful, so dear, about such sweet freedom that Josip Jovic gave his life for I think colleagues and colleagues that we need to discuss more seriously than people on the phone are being monitored now that we have fought for freedom and that basically those who have been in high positions for the time of Yugoslavia, in times of communism, are now making us the way we're going to follow. To fight the crisis yes. Here's an example. We have a problem with agriculture. We see some of the measures being taken, but I would suggest here that the markets, the markets and the stands be opened urgently, and that it is controlled and that our Vrgorje strawberries are sold, people call me, they will have a problem and all the other products are not seeing any reason why they can't control our outside markets where they are more vulnerable these in the chain of commerce di sell foreign import goods and agricultural products that in this way urgently take, here I would send here, open the markets, but of course with respect to all the measures that the Trig adhere to. We simply have to help our farmers in this way. He would also mention our health care professionals here, the president of the assembly welcomed them, we all welcome them here, I think, and we admire each other, but I think we're also trying to say something that we should do right now. I was called by medical personnel from the Knin hospital who have not received travel expenses since 12 months, and daily travel by 150 km, from Knin, from Split, from Drniš do not receive travel expenses. So here I call upon the mayor of the Sibenik-Knin minister I have met on the written path, that these heroes of ours we are now calling, to get rid of their travel expenses, that would be correct to those people we call here. Finally, I would say that solidarity is very important here, but here, I am sorry that the EU does not show solidarity to our Italian neighbours. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180517	Now it's 12.47 minutes, so we don't damage anyone, since I don't see anyone but Mr. Hrg. What? Yeah, I know. All right. Extraordinary circumstances, more tolerance. A statement by clubs and clubs of independent representatives is the first Mr. Grmoi in front of the Club of Representatives of the Most. We've been waiting for him, we've been waiting for you, Mr. Bolt. And welcome. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180518	I don't know if it's any kind of mistake or, Mr. Petrov would have on behalf of the club, I had an individual discussion. And the breaks are this. Yeah, yeah, yeah, okay. Okay, we were out here, so it's awkward that this one, and this morning I was attacked by the President of the Parliament, that I was some kind of fraud, a matchmaker, even though we agents couldn't be here at all because two representatives from our club were here and we didn't know about this deal that SDP agent Peja Grbin and President Jandrokovic made. So I think that, and here, I'd like the President of the Parliament to apologize for that, we didn't have any bad intentions, we wanted to replicate according to the Rules of Procedure. As far as the position is concerned, as far as Mr. Bačić's position is concerned, so here, let me state my position on behalf of the club. Well, they're distracting me. [[Mr. Grmoya, please. Here you go. You're welcome to speak. /]] So we also clearly communicated during that first, first package of economic measures, or measures to help the economy, that we would support it and support it only, but also then we warned the prime minister that it was not enough. I remember exactly the replica I had with the Prime Minister, where I said our entrepreneurs, our craftsmen are not looking for delays, they're asking for write-offs. Now the prime minister finally realized that simply, this first package of measures was not enough and he went with these stronger, more concrete measures that we asked him to do and of course we will support it, but we also need to warn about things that have not been resolved by this proposal. What about the raids, what about the loans? We're going to refer to these measures of ours, here, I've collected for our 7 emergency procedures laws, but I'm going to ask my fellow MPs and another legislative proposal concerning moratorium on loans and performances, stopping operations, simply that can't happen at this point and also, as far as these cuts are concerned, which have been announced. counterpart Cikotic warned that it was going towards cutting projects from EU funds, public procurement, that is something that is inadmissible. If you're going to cut, go first, start from the county, Minister Maric, start from the waste of money in public institutions, or institutions under the control of the county. Our entire health system doesn't work, so the mayors are responsible, and you're looking for funds here first, not to go into cutting projects, and then you'll probably go to cutting salaries for those who are on the front line, our doctors, our nurses, our cops, people who work at the border, teachers, teachers, are they going to cut their salaries? We will be their voice because until you touch the county and until you start cutting there, then you have no right to touch the salaries of those on the first line. They need you to raise their wages. Doctors, nurses, so the police, the military, so their salaries need to be increased at this point. And we won't let you touch them until you touch the county until you touch the mayors, there's no way you'll get away with it. Concession Miro, that concessions, remember how Mayor Ževrna left, or that he did not become a candidate. What happened in the Golden War and what is happening around the Ben concession, which is happening in Dubrovnik-Neretva County, knows counterpart Bačić very well in how concessions are awarded, as it happens, as it is mixed. You touch that, when you touch that, then you'll even be able to think about touching these people that are now on the front line. But we say not to touch but to raise their wages at this point. That should be your suggestion. And in that sense, I can only say, we'll support these measures, but this won't be enough either. We will propose stronger measures through our legal package. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180519	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180520	We are going to the 6th debate, a Club of Representatives of the Bridge of Independent Lists, respected colleague Bozo Petrov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180521	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs. In recent weeks, we have debated many aspects of this crisis, which has been caused by an epidemic of coronary viruses, most of all in health and economic aspects, and that's good. But of course, there are still certain things that have not been solved. After some unscheduled measures have been taken, there are still whole groups of citizens who have not remained protected by all these measures that have been taken. First of all, they're citizens with loans we're looking for a no-interest moratorium during the duration of the epidemic. They are also completed and blocked citizens for whom we are asking for a moratorium to be applied because if others have the right to progress, then they too have the right to rest. Also, there are the unemployed who have lost their jobs because unfortunately the government has been waiting, wasting time with the right measures that they have come up with, they have run out of work. Also, there are seasons that have been waiting for quite a number of months to be employed now in a season that obviously will not be. I believe that all these groups and many other groups should be helped in at least the same way as helping the economy. There are also our farmers who need to be told that they will be able to do spring work in agriculture, in which way they will come into labour, how they will place their products. So far, European countries have already launched extensive programmes to encourage the unemployed, just for agricultural seasonal work. Our country's waiting. I just don't know what's waiting. Also, the crisis has taught us a lot of things. I think the crisis has finally shown all the senselessness of a territorial structure with 500 or more municipalities, the county at the moment when the electronic system for issuing e-passes in 2 to 3 days gives you half a million passes then actually shows you the senselessness of such a system. Why are they betraying? Well, because some local self-governments don't even fill your basic functions for people's lives. In them you do not even find any serious store, no ATM, so of course you will need to look for e-passes, but it will be an interesting period after this, it will be an excellent basis for all of this information that we have received with the e-prompt issue can be an excellent basis for an analysis of all unnecessary local self-government. Also, the epidemic has shown pains of bureaucracy, suddenly within a few days, a few weeks no more walking from the counter to the counter, no more wearing paper straps, no more asking for seals, no more need. Now it's enough to send a literal e-mail and fill out some quick app, all solved. And it all happens during the time that for 50% of government officials at home, it works with reduced intensity or it doesn't work at all. So it will also be a very good basis for solving red tape problems when the crisis is over. But in the end, I have to say that this crisis will be a real test of trust for the state and state institutions, a trust test by citizens. Citizens' confidence in state institutions hasn't been on high-level lately, but this crisis can help the state turn these trends around. And all of this depends on how the state institutions will deal with this crisis as much as they will be able to adapt to the citizens, their needs. And we can see that the health care system works well and can be adapted, the local self-government system is not, but they have already done some damage to the citizens' confidence in the state institutions because they have tried to abuse this crisis so that they can push through their aspirations for comprehensive citizen supervision. I appeal to you not to do that. This is exactly the time in which Croatia can show that through democratic institutions we can fight the crisis and deal with its consequences. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180522	I just have to wait, how long has it been, 26, 27, but there is no one here, 10, 10, who is registered, Bulj is there, Glasnović, Panenić is gone, here is Glasnović, Kajtaz, we can get started. Here, colleagues, we move forward with the work, followed by the presentation of the position. The first presentation of the position will take place on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists of Independent Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180523	Thank you very much. My colleagues here today you are here in the assembly we have had the opportunity to vote on the law, on amendments to the Law on Agricultural Land which I have proposed to prevent the sale of agricultural land to foreign, legal and physical persons. At this time when agriculture is seen as important and important and that Croatia is not self-sufficient in agricultural production. You did not support this proposal by the majority of HDZ and its partners because I find it embarrassing if other EU members could do so, for example. Hungary to protect the agricultural land that it is a national interest at this point in time I express my minimal disfavor with such a policy towards a key resource, and this is the agricultural land I call upon once again must be modeled and planted immediately at this time. And I expect these measures from the local, state level because of what the state level has lost in all of this, and the coronary crisis has shown that we have had a catastrophic agricultural policy and policy towards the Croatian village. So once again I call all, let us destroy what is our private, start me from ourselves and what is stately divide to the Croatian peasant is 2/3 of Croatia empty. I would say the same thing here, here we are bringing a number of measures to the assembly today, and we are facing the time of Easter of the greatest Christian holiday in and so is the Republic of Croatia. Here we see that the markets are still closed, and I expect it to open that we can sell our agricultural products at this time, but what we see is that trade chains are allowed to sell foreign import goods, we see that there's going to be an attempt to get through that. to pass the laws that open the way to the EUR at this time of the crown crisis which is also shameful, but the key to me is, here we have today the assembly, we are 151, we are separated, we are sticking to the measure, and here in Croatia Easter is the greatest holiday Christian holiday, which our people celebrate with tradition as their greatest holiday and among other things at this time would be good, if we can go to the trade chains, I call on bishops, I call on all those who can influence at this time to enable or in the spaces within the church by sticking to the measure as we do here and outside of this church facilities, in front of the churches in the courtyards. To enable believers to observe all the measures in this biggest holiday in Croatia, to allow the believers to attend the Holy Masses on this holiday. If we can be here in the assembly, if we can be in the trade chains, if we can think that the tribal would be a measure and to ensure, of course, this distance, the physical distance.../incomprehensible/... measure because at the moment that we are leaving our houses, although the assembly should continue to bring more measures, mainly measures to postpone the commission and the loan, very important to our citizens, however we will leave without voting. And once again here for this Easter would triangulate the peace of these people, and not after Easter to continue with the measures where people would now have to pay their bills, they had to pay their loans, they had to secure those measures. And once again, wherever foreign goods, trade chains sell, food products, can be entered, can be bought although markets are still closed, I expect that, it has announced, is announced from headquarters that they will open them, people are our farmers and domestic products are these main fruits, vegetables, what is grown at this moment from the strawberries of Vrgorački and other products, dairy products are, can't stop, it needs to be sold, open the trade chains, this if the open trade chains open the markets, of course I wish everyone a happy Easter, and most of all I call on our competent authorities to make it possible, if we can hold here a meeting to keep the believers Let them be holy Masses. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180524	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180525	Here we go, now we're going to go to free speech. The first is the Club of Representatives of the Bridge of Independent Lists, respected counterpart Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180526	Thank you very much. Here I would speak to my fellow citizens, my Split-Dalmatia County, but also to the entire people of Croatia to say what Split, County means here, and mainly Split-Dalmatia County, which is essentially an earl factory today when the whole of Croatia, the entire Split-Dalmatia County is in the bunker. Which respects the measures of experts on COVID in the same Split-Dalmatia County enters the COVID virus where it should not enter, of course with the arrests placed by Ante Sanader under, i.e. Secretary, one of the main people of Andrej Plenkovic, who was appointed after losing his election to the mayor of Omis. Of course, with the assistance of Boban, who all-in support of him because for years I've been looking for a county councilman, the president of the MOST Club, so that this man can't be trusted and that this man can't be removed from the post of boss, i.e. Director of the House for the Elderly and Powerless in Split. And right where we don't feel sorry for each other, while we're all in the bunker, we get hit naked in extensions, with the help of Ante Sanader who's been keeping this quiet all along and the current mayor of Boban. This is proof that the counties are the largest brakes in the development of the Republic of Croatia. And it's time for this assembly now at the end of this term to do the right thing and lift the county. Since the county was founded, only 100 000 people have moved from the Dalmatian mountain. And today, when we defend ourselves against the coronary virus, right where we've placed the earring, the lives and health of our people are at risk, unfortunately some of them have already died, home-protectors for the elderly and impossible. And not only did they endanger homes for the elderly and the powerless but they also threatened the center for the accommodation of adults in the center of Juraj Bonaci and the protégé, because the workers from that home have now been sent to help the homes of the elderly and the powerless in Biokovak and Vukovar, in the streets of Vukovar, Split, to the nursing home. And now these people, our protégés who are 100% disabled, who have autism, theirs, 24 days at 7 days per day, are constantly protected by two people, a carer and a medical technician. The lives of these people in health institutions are now at risk. What is the minister of social care doing? Absolutely nothing. While at the same time holding press in Split and calling the people, mainly Mayor Boban in uniform as a hero invites people to follow measures, he brought the virus, he, directly upon his arrest. And here, it's not just Mr. Ivan Scissor's question. Here is the question of the responsibility of Ante Sanader, a colleague of Bačić, Ante Sanader who did not put professional people, who did not place professional people in a nursing home, while all of us, a colleague of Bačić, were in isolation, while medical staff risked their lives, poorly equipped without protective means, at the same time these people brought the coronaryvirus i.e. They stuck us in extensions in the 95th minute, same people. That's why this assembly has to end now, we have to bring it, we have to lift the county, they're unnecessary. This is the cry of all people, not only of this Dalmatian Zagora and Split-Dalmatia County, but of the entire Republic of Croatia, let us take these chains off ourselves, free ourselves from local self-government, free ourselves from these Pharaohs, free ourselves from these kingdoms that serve only to entangle, maintain power, and see what they have done to us. So I urge the responsible, Bobana, Sanader, that they resign if they don't have the courage already. resign to Scissor. [[Intruder: Time]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180527	We interrupt for a moment the debate on this law in order to allow for the presentation of a position on behalf of representatives clubs and independent representatives. The first is Mrs Sonja Cikotic, who will speak on behalf of the Most Independent Lists. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180528	Vice President of HS, thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Today I will talk about the situation that is currently in Croatia, what Croatia will be like tomorrow after implementing all these measures and insufficient their effectiveness, insufficient their intensity or insufficient coverage of certain groups of citizens. I will say that again and here I will thank all the nurses, all the technicians, all the cashiers and cashiers who work hard in this crisis and go to their jobs every day. This extraordinary situation should force us all to solidarity and unity and no one should be left alone. All should create this chain of solidarity between citizens, and the measures proposed by the Government and we opposition MPs should certainly ensure that no new layer of poor, new layer of dissuaded citizens is created that will find it difficult or in no way be able to reconcile their life needs after the end of the crown crisis. Today's agenda is also the Act on stopping the implementation of the financial assets implemented by FINA, and I asked what about those funds that are being implemented by HZMO, what about those tasks that employers are carrying out? We have a delay again, we will have two measures that will arrive late, completed, blocked citizens today hard to live, as well as their children. Today, according to the Ombudsman's report for children, 300,000 people in Croatia are in poverty and on the poverty line, and after this crisis, I fear that the number will be growing. On a daily basis, I am approached by mothers who are at home with children who use parental leave whose parental leave expires or has already expired and have to return to their jobs, who have no one to trust their children with care and care for, to keep them safe because we know kindergartens are closed, schools are closed, how those who are unemployed actually start looking for a job in this situation and how actually those who have to go back to work, how to actually take care of children and to whom to trust them. I also have to say that the number of enquiries come from entrepreneurs who have, meaning legal persons who use certain measures for liquidity, but are threatening to do so because they haven't worked here in a month and a half, they have debtors on their personal names. Why do we not propose that, in certain measures and in the case of legal persons, the funds it provides, which are available for liquidity, should certainly be used and directed to one part of the debts towards suppliers, as well as maintaining the current liquidity of the company. I call on the Government to, as it constantly advocates solidarity and unity, make a step in the form of a legal solution to the public sector, those who live well in one of the poorest members of the EU, who have large salaries and who have long been irreplaceable managers of various agencies, that they are now limited to receiving because we must all be solid, and I call on citizens to continue a series with all the irreplaceable managers who today receive 30 and 40 thousand kuna net wages and that it is not enough to invite them only to solidarity, but it is necessary to take much more measures and not to allow through these legal measures that are being taken today in the Croatian Assembly, to allow individual castings of wealth. So, the wealth of individuals, so that no one would use this situation again to come out with the prey. I must also say that over 300,000 people in Croatia are being blocked. We're interested in their lives, we're interested in how they're doing their directing and how they're actually going to get out of this crisis even poorer and whether they're going to feel these long-term consequences much, much longer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180529	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180530	The next presentation of the position on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists Bridge, the distinguished representative Sonja Cikotic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180531	Dear colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament. I'd like to talk today about a few issues that they're dealing with and citizens are talking to me every day. One thing is executions and blockades. Today, a bill has been passed that will provide 3+3 moratories for those citizens whose performance is carried out over money, but by FINA. Those to whom the HZMO and those to whom the employer is carrying out, shall not be subject to this legislative proposal. Also, a number of other laws have been passed that have come to this assembly. The parliamentary laws that come from opposition parties have not yet come in part. I have women who have to work every day, so they work on the professions that the Civilian headquarters has allowed to perform regularly. The school is done by way of a distance. These women today are more than ever discriminated against at work because many employers don’t actually realize that they have no one to trust, or their children to be guarded. We know that women in Croatian society are traditionally nursed, that they often work on a specific, work seasonally, work for lower incomes, and that consequently they progress less in their careers. Today these women, these mothers can't be protected in enough ways in the labour market, and that's what I want to point out. In these times of crisis, no one should be left alone and solidarity should be our first priority. After this crisis, we must not allow the creation of a new layer of poor citizens, and I hear from the ruling ranks that there was not enough time, that there is not enough time, that certain laws cannot be done quickly, that would certainly help many parts of the citizens, because I believe that, in addition to the Law on the suspending of funds and the implementation of funds over money, surely it should be found immediately and the Executive Law so that all citizens who are in this situation have had the tasks, that they have been blocked, had equal rights and received the meaning of their full pensions and their full salaries because they are also in this extraordinary situation and they still cannot finance everything they need and they are directly affected. The signs of workers have been affected, workers also appear, are concerned about their jobs. They are concerned about whether there will be a tourist season at all and whether and in what way those who should have actually worked the season will be invited. I must mention when the Law on the financing of political activities, election promotions and the referendum was held, we must remember that it was passed for a few days, that a marathon session was held and that when it was in favour of those political supporters of the same, that the law was voted and passed and published in the People's Journal in just one day. I hear and read from the newspapers as the minister of the administration says, so it's not us who will say that and that community should exist, that and that community should be. And who else should know this than the secretary of the administration? Or would the management minister rather address the problems and difficulties of the tourism sector, problems and difficulties of the tourist season, would he rather be a tourism minister? I'm actually amazed by the fact that the state has come out with some subsidies to workers, to employers, but it's not going away. They went into debt, and in fact the same bureaucratic territorial structure, which has been warned for years, not sustainable, not effective, not effective for citizens, not for fiscal cash registers, they simply deafen themselves. I call on the government to move on, to reform the public administration, to reform the territorial structure because surely, not only would it be financially effective, it would be actually effective for the lives of citizens because some things would be done effectively and some processes would be shorter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180532	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180533	Now we move to a united debate, forgive me, I am already in a hurry, now of course we will go to the usual presentation on behalf of the club of representatives and the first on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists will speak to the respected representative Bozo Petrov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180534	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs. I'm going to talk today about two concepts in the spirit of this anniversary that Mr Reiner has just mentioned, the spirit of democracy in the first multilateral elections, I'm going to talk about two concepts of importance, the concept of rule of law and the concept of legal certainty. In developed democratic societies such as Germany and Switzerland, these concepts should not be overly debated, they are self-conceived. Their citizens take as a notorious fact that the laws are precise and clearly written and, on the other hand, that the state, state institutions, especially the state-run repressive apparatus will treat all citizens equally, act equally that they are all equal under the law. On the other hand, I don't think we need to spend too many words to conclude that Croatian citizens have somewhat different experience with this concept of rule of law. And a typical case of the Croatian concept of rule of law took place the other day when the inspectors of the State Inspectorate entered the catering facilities, discovered alleged illegalities, closed down the catering facilities and beat them to death with a serious financial penalty. I think that this example of the State Inspectorate's conduct shows two important things, the first important thing that citizens need to know is that this government and these state institutions have no intention of making any serious changes after the epidemic has passed and that all these big stories such as changing the paradigm and similar are a cheap delusion that will last until the moment until parliamentary elections pass, and after the parliamentary elections have passed, everything will go back to the way it was. Once again, you will need paper carioles, printing, printing, and on the other hand, those who are trying to earn their bread will choke and it will choke them in silence. On the other hand, no other important lesson was learned that should have been taught about the rule of law. I will say that HS has given power to headquarters that in moments like these have the opportunity to edit how certain facilities, catering facilities will function. I'll repeat, HS has given authority. They did not give authority to the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, the tourist community, public health institutions, and they all now appear and interpret the headquarters's decisions further. Why? Why do they answer, why do they need to interpret it? When the headquarters makes certain measures, they are published in the National Journal, they are published in order to be available to all and these decisions should be clear and accurate. There must be no further interpretations, and that is exactly where it was wrong, a measure which was not clear enough, was not precise enough, so everyone else appears now, should give additional interpretations. But it's not right. And precisely because of that mistake, those in a crisis like this are trying to fight and find bread for their employees. Legal uncertainty was created, a violation of the rule of law, and the price was paid by Croatian hosts. I think this is a typical case of the Croatian version of the rule of law and a reminder to the citizens. Dear citizens, nothing will change in this story. Changes only happen in the election.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180535	Thank you very much. Now it's in front of the HNS Club, Mr. Chury, he's gone. And now in front of the Most independent lists Mr. Bulj will have his own show, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180536	Dear citizens, colleagues and colleagues. In the Republic of Croatia this crisis has exposed all the bad policies, this crisis has shown that from the native Croatian authorities in essence have now discovered this jubo under which they hid in their farces, in their fogs, and wherever we look we see these smoke curtains that they were, we just have to say not even smoke curtains but soaps, soap balloons. I would, too, and we always stress that, and in particular from rural areas, I would say that everything that has not been done and what has been warned for years and what has been forgotten, and in fact in rural areas, hope has been extinguished, means simply the switch has been targeted to suit mainly certain lobbys, to deceive people under these lights and, of course, through a huge media promotion. As far as agriculture itself is concerned, agriculture is the most important branch, food is one of the most important branches of all others, but food is the basis of life, water and energy. All three things in the Republic of Croatia there are both possibilities and resources and potentials, however, the fact that when we look at Croatian agriculture only this unprocessed land and 700,000 hectares when we look at 400,000 state land and that 20 times in fact the Agricultural Land Act was passed 2 years ago, of 400,000 m2 and 1% is not divided agricultural land. I gave in the procedure the Emergency Law on Amendments, the amendment of the Law on Agricultural Land to finally divide the land to Croatian peasants, Croatian OPGs and to finally start processing. It's not accepted. Of course the problem of public administration, i.e. the problem of the operation of local, county and state authorities is visible. It is visible for several reasons because it has now come out that the county is unnecessary, the tribune to shut them down. Even though anyone has a chance, this assembly has a chance. All that was good and somewhat while, what was organized was destroyed, health homes were literally, literally and health services were literally not halved, but health services were literally destroyed, literally. And the coronary crisis has shown how important these homes of health, the emergency aids that were organized, but nobody cares. What's the big deal? It is important that the counties have health homes under their control and that these same counties kill officials inside the health homes, so Petric would like it, is now instead of Raja, Raja was his advisor, now he's a consultant, and he's destroyed everything. Six months of women waiting in my Cetina region to enroll in the UZV breast, and that day, once in six months, it's a row, suffocating in rows. So let's get rid of the stationary, and let's get rid of Bacic's birthplace, and come to the alka, who's going to race the alka. I mean, it just didn't work out well from that perspective, and that's the demographic downturn, that's the demographic downturn that's the worst. And in the end, I would just say, the crown crisis has opened our eyes but also hope that it can be different and it must be different, that the insults I have received, that it is better that Zagora did not give birth to you, the shepherds and so, I am proud of these insults because I come, I am a peasant and I am ears in politics precisely because of these decorated figures that have destroyed the Croatian state. Finally, he would look back, and today I am, and yesterday I am on the basis of the Croatian state, following a statement to arrest, locate, transfer, deliver, Vladimir Seks, following a statement by Nenad Stazic that 45 years had never ended, that '45. The winners did not finish their job that the tribal had yet to kill the Croats, after a statement after 2017, where the cartoonist coalition of Andrej Plenkovic, Vrdoljak and Pupovac took down the plate of 11-story heroes and yesterday' statements by Zoran Milanovic about this crisis when we should be complex and together to take down the board and throw it in the trash is extremely sad, embarrassing, beneath each level and this, and this act continued the politics of Kolinda Grabar Kitarović, Vladimir Seks, Andrej Plenkovic and all those who mocked each other. with victims for pre-election purposes. [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180537	The next club of MPs is that bridge of independent lists on behalf of which the respected representative Miro Bulj will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180538	Respected citizens, respected colleagues and colleagues. The Coronavirus has shown everything, i.e. Opened up, exposed the Jug from the bad policies that destroyed what was important for self-sufficiency and it's a shame that the Republic of Croatia, again, is doing nothing, mainly the Ministry of Agriculture, on unprocessed land owned by a country of 700 thousand hectares of agricultural land. 400 is owned by the Republic of Croatia. The agricultural land law has been passed 20 times. 20. The last time was two years ago during Tolusic, the minister is here, now Minister Vukkovic, not even 1% of the agricultural land has been allocated at this time. If this policy continues, if this pandemic crisis continues, whether we will be, not only self-sufficient, whether we will have enough food, whether or not the voice of unprocessed surfaces will prevail, now that it should be the most in the seed. There is also corruption in agriculture has never again been invested in incentives for farmers, and we have never had less production, never more imports. At EUR 3 billion, we import, import food products. Of which most pork and frozen pasta, of which means cereals, and we have Slavonia. Of the silos that have been robbed for 30 years full of grain, nothing has been done to date. This ministry, which was to develop agriculture, which was to be invested in the village and peasants, collapsed like geese in the fog, not all of them, because it was determined exclusively for lobbys and pests of imports within the ministry and it is surprising that I gave more than a month, a month's proposal in the emergency procedure, to divide the land to the Croatian peasant, the Croatian farmer that he had absolutely not come into the debate. That would move the mayors away in my proposal, and their signature should be given, means simply move them away if the programme does not work for the assignment of agricultural land, for local self-government, but in which area the land is located, but they must at the same time give the mayor to sign it. Of course, the mayors don't sign, especially where local leaders aren't, they don't have their party card. It's our first time out of the county. And here I would send a message that this assembly has a chance, now the pandemic has shown that the counties are excess. We have to lift the counties, I'm running for mayor of Split-Dalmatia County, I entered the second round, gets the most votes, my main motto is to be the last mayor, let's stop the county. They're blocking the development of agriculture. Only in my county is the Sinj field not irrigated. What's the county for? And the concessions, here is Minister Bosnjakovic, at the time he was a representative, you remember the concession on Bol, on Brac, you remember how to manage the maritime goods, it's all in the hands of the mayors who are the Pharaohs. They're brakes. We need to really decentralisation the Republic of Croatia, and then agriculture and livestock will develop, is who knows best what is going on in local areas, know of course local leaders and people living in that place, and not today the mayors and the mayors have to be exclusively, I guarantee it and in our club there were such simple ones they had to play as the mayor tells them, they left the club because it's unwanted to be in the MOST Club because they won't achieve anything for their local units. They must be the run of the mayor, the local leaders, my men and these mayors, those Pharaohs rule. They've destroyed agriculture, Minister Vukkovic is doing nothing, and she doesn't care, I've made a bill to prescribe it, and those local leaders who don't share the land, the local leader, so that's what we have, I mean, it's a disaster. What if it rules that no more imports, if the states close, if this crisis lasts, what then? Minister, what's it gonna be? So let's buy our own homework, process our own ories, and finally be self-sufficient, finally, and destroy the import vermin within the ministries. And that's Minister Vukkovic's silence. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180539	Thank you, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180540	Now we move on to free speech. The first is the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists Bridge, the esteemed colleague of Nikola Grmoy, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180541	Thank you. Dear people, respected citizens. In the sea of health problems due to an epidemic of coronaryvirus, we are increasingly facing both the economic and other social aspects of this crisis, which could, in all likelihood, last for a longer period of time. We already know that the economic consequences of the crisis will be unimaginable. Data and estimates coming from the world's leading economies, those who are the engine of the world economy are at least worrying. The German government forecasts a decline in German GDP of over 6%, and unemployment in the United States has reached historic peaks in the 1930s. In numbers only over 25 million people have been out there for the past month. By observing these unreal figures, we have to ask ourselves how all of this will reflect on the Croatian small and open economy, which according to its relative strength and structure is nowhere near the world's top. After all, the consequences of the crisis will most reflect on those who are last in the chain of the economy, but also on which the economy is at the same time resting, which are workers. The 2008 crisis experience for us in Croatia, but also throughout Europe, has shown that the most vulnerable young workers, up to 30 or 35 years of life, are on the labour market. Remember, the recession caused by the 2008 financial crisis has caused youth unemployment, which has crossed over 50% in some EU countries over the years. After the unemployment of young people at the very top, unfortunately, with Greece and some other countries we recorded the unemployment rate of young people at least over 30%. The long-term unemployment of young workers, the imperceptibility, the inability to progress in wages, low wages, insecure jobs, the seasonality of jobs performed by both income instability, credit inability, but also other injustices, we know what led to the departure of our people from Croatia to Germany, Ireland and other countries. We need to be smarter this time. The first data on the unemployment of young workers in the more developed Western economies suggests that their unemployment in the circumstances of the coronary virus epidemic grows 4-5 times faster than the unemployment of older generations of workers and I from this place appeal to the government that we respond quickly and resolutely to young people who have recently entered the world of work, for those who will seek their first job in both this and in the coming years, we must have a plan and offer them a future and perspective in Croatia. The bridge will therefore offer young people a vision of their future and that is why we are constantly proposing new measures to the government, we have proposed a set of economic laws to mitigate the consequences of this crisis. Also, we were looking for more in March moratorium on performances and on loans. You know what happened? While Slovenia immediately brought the moratorium to its conclusion, our government is only doing so now, we are discussing it here at HS today. I'm asking a question here for all of you, is it possible that the government of the Republic of Croatia is calculating with the lives of our citizens? Why do I say that? If measures had been taken in March for 3 months, by the time the elections were scheduled in July, those measures would have been over, but they are now bringing these measures to the polls, and after the election, who lives, who dies. It's a message from the rulings, we've been looking for a moratorium on top means all this year, a moratorium on loans and interest that the government doesn't want to bring, throughout this year, we've also made a legislative proposal. And also, I'm telling the government, now is the time for reform. We are the only political option that has translated the territorial transformation into the legal proposal in the procedure, the reduction of numbers means units of local self-government, the reduction of the number of politicians and officials. Ruler, it's time for a change.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180542	Thank you. We are now going to a second debate, Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists of Honored Fellow Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180544	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens. The coronary crisis has opened everyone's eyes. She opened her eyes and it's visible about the county, whether the counties are needed, whether a new reconstruction is needed. Now, even those blinds who saw from the party corners the needs of the county are evident that the counties are the key and the main vermin of the development of the Republic of Croatia. In this crown crisis in my Dalmatia when Minister Beros and the headquarters called us to the bunker, when they called us to stick to social distances, to stick to measures, when the catering facilities were closed, when it was all closed, the people followed, but as I said now I'm going to repeat, at the 95th minute they got us where there was no virus, and that's in the home for the elderly and the powerless. And who got us into this? Just the one he advocated, protected, his chief mentor, Ante Sanader, while he was mayor, now head man Andrej Plenkovic's right-hand man and Blaženko Boban Mayor. The director said that for 10 days they had a fever older and powerless and that only when it was escalated were they called to check it out, to test the protégés. 17 dead. We've got the infected down here today. Yesterday 5th in the Split-Dalmatia County of the Dead, every day getting worse and worse news because of a man who has not done his job and says Minister Beroš after released statements, released analyses, released reports, said the virus is guilty. Countys are brakes of development, the county is not what this government is calling for where power is decentralised from the state level. No, they're a flow water heater where money is given from decentralised healthcare funds, and we know what they did from health services to literally women in my Dalmatian Zagora in that county waiting in line to enroll in UZV breasts, many do not welcome, die, not wait to be examined. I've had a number, I haven't been a parliamentary representative for shutting down in Sinj and the stationers and the radiology and the x-rays and poor emergency aids, and not that people, people who work are great, but lack of people and care. But that money that's being decentralized he stays in the county's entourages and it's the main brake of development. Since the county, I repeat, founded from Dalmatian Zagora from Krka to Neretva has evicted 100,000 people. The greater damage was done by all the occupiers of the Ottoman Empire, so everyone here who has passed from the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, from fascists, Nazis, communists, the greater pests they have done. Imagine the power these mayors have for the Pharaohs that because of them and because of the law that allowed them, we have no irrigation, no key fields of our fields, and therefore we have 800,000 hectares of unprocessed agricultural land, there is no irrigated Sinjsko polje, Petrovo polje. So stop, is it normal in the 21st century when we have billions available from eu funds? A key development project such as verticals, circuits on the highway of the Cetina, the Drinjska, the Knin area I have proposed has not been done, and waste management and environmental conservation that I do not speak. Only the harmful projects of Lečevica that the damage will do, what are the pests and how much money they have taken is a disaster, only to entangle. This meeting had a chance, he didn't meet it, I'm sorry if it mattered, he didn't shut down the county. So let's shut down the county.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180545	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180546	Now it's Mr. Miro Bulj's turn to present the position of the Representatives' Club of the Independent Lists Bridge, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180547	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, here I will only briefly at what my colleague Milosevic said, that HS must accept what we all citizens, the Republic of Croatia, which is what the Council of Europe does. The European Parliament also says in the declaration, condemn all totalitarian regimes, fascist, Nazi and communist and bow down to all victims. But I will never accept the labelling of the Croatian people in 2020, both the Ustasha and the Nazi and those who do not allow the rights of anyone. Any minority and any group, and especially compare insigns from the Homeland War with any regime from the past from II. svt. The war, either the Ustasha or any other, and I will not accept it as a man and as a Croatian defender. Because people under the insignations of HOS, who have accepted the government of Ivica Racan, and this fellow Milosevic knows that the Association of Croatian HOS Majors has been accepted by Ivica Racan, I repeat, the Government, Minister Ivanisevic, therefore, you are not mortgaged to the Croatian people that the criminal and increase of fascism is. It's just a lie and I'll never accept it as a man. A man who highly respects all people, and of course between that, I think the entire Corps is a Croatian, political and all national minority. But that someone is going to mortgage the Croatian people that it's fascist 2020, I'm not going to let that happen. Of course, you forgot to tell a fellow Milosevic about Chetnik monuments like that. In Vukovar, a criminal of the Shocker and the others. But I wouldn't talk about it, I'd hold on to this if we as a people, as a political people with national minorities all called together on what Europe gives us and what I accept as a man, to condemn all crimes, all totalitarian regimes. Both communist and fascist and Nazi, and let's bow down to all the victims. The mortgage that the Croatian people are fascist and that they are putting them into World War II molds. Don't be angry, I don't accept because you're not real, you didn't talk about the people who defended with these insignations of the Croatian state which the tribune separates from the great Serbian Chetnic aggression. And I would now go back to what I thought. The Republic of Croatia has huge funds from the EU for agglomerations. In my Cetina region in my Sinj through the middle of Sinj an open sewerage that affects Cetina has not been solved much and septic pits so that it endangers both the river Cetina and the health of people and it is unfortunate that in the 21st century it is so, but the fact is that. And now that this project in 2023 was to be completed, i.e. When it was due to be carried out, the funds were insurance, the minister signed 302 million kuna last year, public works were called, but Croatian water, Sinj city, the mayor, the water pipeline made a wrong assessment. Instead of the estimated agglomerated works of Sinj which is a huge project, 213 million is the lowest bid that was called a few days ago and opened a few days ago... is twice as big as the estimated one. Instead of 213 million estimated the lowest bid is 418 million or 205 million more. And by 2023, if we don't finish the agglomeration project, our money's going down. From the European funds there is 220 million kuna, it is for Sinj, the Cetin region, Zagora and Croatia huge money. I call here on the competent ministry, Croatia's leadership to react urgently if this project and the funds from the eu funds do not smell like a disaster. And it is a shame that the project of agglomeration is failing in 2021 in the centre of the Dalmatian Zagor in Sinj, which is why I call on those who are painting themselves when they sign contracts from Minister Ćorić to the director of Croatian Waters, the Mayor of Sinja, the representative of the waterworks to finally solve this problem, is it going to be inconceivable if this problem is not solved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180548	Thank you, too. Now it is Mr. Ante Bacic who will speak for HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180550	Thank you, Vice President HS. My colleagues and colleagues. We're tracking all events related to the pandemic of the coronary virus and all the damage it's caused in the Republic of Croatia and so on to our education system. I think that in the last month, two days, we are only talking about primary and secondary education and our students whether they will attend school now, how they will end their school year, how grades will be concluded, what will happen to graduates, children in kindergarten and others. I think that in our media space, and in particular here in the Parliament and in the presentations of the Ministry of Science and Education itself, I have the feeling that we have ignored one major group in our society, which is 160,000 students of our universities in Croatia, universities, private universities, which among them is not at all involved in any form of online teaching, which I think is the obligation of all colleges to implement, but normally certain universities have about the staff and the very technique of the issue of teaching. So that a large number of our students are not participating in any form of academic education at this very moment in the last two months, and we know that the deadlines are approaching, but also the end of the academic year itself, and there is a lot of uncertainty, there are many questionnaires as to how it will end and how students themselves will not pass exams, but also some who are at the end or remain only graduate as they will graduate from their universities. I think it's a topic that we definitely need to open up in our and our media space, but also politically. And I am glad that the Croatian Student Assembly just last week sent a series of proposals and measures related to this topic that you would highlight here and pass by with you, and I think that we should definitely open a dialogue with the Croatian Student Assembly and all the measures that are implemented and proposals that are rational to accept them so that there are no problems or that something is not going on at the expense of the students. As far as teaching is concerned, the Croatian Student Assembly has proposed available literature for online learning, meaning that all textbooks and materials related to any passing of exams must be integrated through online libraries at the level of the Republic of Croatia and introduced into space to be available to all students. As for the digital competence of teaching staff, there the Croatian Student Assembly continued and suggested that amendments to the Law on Scientific Activity even this competence of digital teaching be entered into the conditions for the improvement of certain scientific titles in our universities. We need to open the dialogue now and consider whether it will be necessary to comply with their request, and this is about the extension of the academic year itself, the increase of the test deadlines when we see that now at the 4th month they were, i.e. There should have been extraordinary test deadlines that some colleges did not respect, so I believe that the ministry will jump in and give instructions that we must definitely extend the academic year itself, but also include additional test deadlines so that there are no unnecessary delays. As for the regulations on the conditions and method of exercising the right to cover the costs of student nutrition, we have seen that in certain student centres at the level of the Republic of Croatia and the cafeterias themselves there is a problem that not many students normally do not do the crown themselves could be present in restaurants themselves, but we are not allowed to carry out prepared food outside the restaurant where they could continue to consume the same in their homes and houses and we must already think lightly about ordering and paying online via that particular food, so we are also bringing to the point of making smart x-chip that will have a special chip and which is the future I think about at our universities and student centres because it will lead to the possibility of uncontact payment in student restaurants, but also other benefits that the smart ix-ica itself will have. Since my time is running out, I'm just going to point out that we need to support students in the proposal to step down from all cost cuts related to the development of student standards because I think that's the future we should definitely invest in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180551	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180552	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists MostA will now speak MP Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180553	Thank you very much. Here is before the speech and my intention to say something, dear colleague Ljubic, esteemed Vice-President, distinguished secretary of the Croatian Parliament and distinguished professional associates of the President of the Croatian Parliament. I think here is once again my condolences to the family of the dead Croatian soldiers, the Croatian Air Force pilot who is a great loss for both the Croatian Armed Forces and the family and we can only say thanks for everything they have done and I expect the Croatian Air Force to overcome these difficult moments and the families of the dead and, of course, I would just say, a sincere condolences to the family and let them rest in the peace of God. Here, it's 12 o'clock, and I'm sorry to tell anyone but you, so don't be angry with the Vice President, the honourable secretary-general and this professional associate and associate of the Croatian President of the Parliament, it's hard to talk to you today in my Split-Dalmatia County, of course I'm speaking to the citizens, in my Split-Dalmatia County, today at Brač, which is under the measures of the Civil Protection Crisis Centre, yesterday there are 9 new people. After what we've been protecting, we've been listening to the civilian headquarters, after we've kept our measures, physical distances, after everything we've done, after we've closed down the catering facilities, after all, it's just the islands that are closed and, by all accounts, that the man who's infected with the coronary virus has gone to our island of Brac, 14 000 people and now in the first test we have 9 newly infected, which is the absolute kicks of the Civil Protection Station and the Split-Dalmatia County headed by Commander Blaženko Boban. Of course I'll come back one more time, I don't judge anyone for death or this or that, but the fact is that misrepresentation was caused by a nursing home or something. in the House for the Elderly and Powerless in Split, it caused, the distinguished associates of the President of the Croatian Parliament, the death of 18 older and powerless residents, regardless of the statement which confirmed that the system had not worked, medical staff from the home for the elderly and the powerless, confirm that the director of Škaričić himself, who was brought in when he lost the mayor's seat, had nothing to do with the job, nor was he in the health profession, who admitted that several days, more protégés, had a temperature but had nothing to do with it. I think Mr. Berosa's statement is that the virus is guilty, in this case it's not, and I don't think it's a good thing that Boban, Sanader and A. Plenkovic are politicizing with the Civil Protection Staff and what they've done well, what needs to be said, in this way they've essentially politicized. And that's not good. And those who are guilty, that the extensions of the virus in the 95th minute, are in fact still politically protected and they have destroyed the Split-Dalmatia County system, and in terms of health services in the home of health, and in terms of hospitals, I have here proposed amendments for our Split hospital, no one accepted then and the health homes are simply staying more and more unserviceed due to poor management of the Split-Dalmatia County. That is why the national headquarters should make decisions responsible and replace the Civil Protection Centre of the Split-Dalmatia County because they will endanger them, because they are those who have compromised the health and safety of their people and the whole of Croatia mainly of the Split-Dalmatia County. Thank you very much, expert associates.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180554	Thank you. We will continue the session on Tuesday, 12 May with the points of the amendment and addition of the state budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2020 and the projections for 2021 and 2022 and the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the implementation of the Croatian State Budget for 2020, second reading, P.Z. No. 996. Have a nice weekend. SESSION Interrupted at 12.08 hours
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180555	We're going to free debates now. The first is the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists and Representative Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180556	Dear citizens, colleagues, colleagues and fellow MPs. The Republic of Croatia has had and has a great opportunity to achieve self-sufficiency in food production. That is why, in this mandate, I proposed to protect domestic food production and to stop people and residents from leaving the Republic of Croatia, I proposed a law banning GMOs, a law on the ban on glyphosate, an emergency award law of 700,000 hectares of unprocessed agricultural land to Croatian farmers and Croatian peasants. I also proposed, as an emergency measure, an emergency procedure banning the sale of agricultural land to foreigners. There are still 50 days left, less than 50 days to 1.7, then 7 years from the moratorium for the sale of agricultural land to foreigners. I'm asking the Minister of Agriculture here. I ask the question to the Croatian government, and also to our parliamentary representatives, what has been done to stop the sale of agricultural land of 1.7, meaning from, here in 50 days? The Croatian state has this resource which is the resource of the survival of these people and self-sufficiency no matter what this government of Prime Minister Plenkovic is all the time, and fellow MPs have said that these are my backdrops, that this is impossible. If Hungary can ban the sale of agricultural land to foreign legal and physical persons, I see no reason why the Croatian Government is silent about this problem? There are 50 days left for foreigners to buy land, plant GMOs, poison our country with glyphosates. I also gave the law on the ban on the use of glyphosate, but we absolutely do not know what the government has done. It's an emergency to stop the process. If Malta could, if others could. Many countries when they joined the EU, e.g. Poland, she was benefiting about, mainly about agriculture. The Republic of Croatia became the largest importer at the time of most investment in agriculture. We import 20 billion kunas of food products, of pork, of bakery products, we import everything, and our country is under the weeds. This crisis has made everyone naked. The Hungarians wouldn't let that happen. They even dare while we are in the EU, Orban to draw cards that the Republic of Hungary is under. Even Tajani, a friend of Andrej Plenkovic, says that Croatia's Dalmatia and Istria is Italian. Well, Mr. Fascist Tajani, that's not true. And they don't bother me that much. I'm tired and worried about the pain of the Croatian government. And the frequent photography of the Croatian government's leaders with such and these people while the Republic of Croatia is empty, 2/3 of the Republic of Croatia is empty. We have proposed in this term, because we believe that the Croatian country of fighting is worth it at the Most Club. We also suggested that the IGP protect our Adriatic, preserve our resources on the Adriatic, and this government did not accept it. In this term when there were parliamentary MPs who started these topics for the first time, and part of them accepted that we were sovereignly ruling our resources, because this crisis would show that the great, of Germany and beyond, did not care about the Croatian people. Everything we must do from 1.7. Our key resource with water, forest, energy, our Adriatic, agricultural land does not come into the hands of foreign owners, legal and physical persons. It is our sovereign Croatian right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180557	This concludes with the replicas and the next half hour will be positions on behalf of the club of representatives and independent representatives. In the name of the Bridge of Independent Lists, Mr. Grmoy will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180558	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, here, all day long here, journalists are asking about the day of the Parliament's disbandment. He is speculating about Monday and it is clear that the rulings have decided to go to the elections because there is no other way to retain power. So all these measures they've taken for our businessmen, for our citizens, will expire until 7. Between 9:00 p.m. and 9:00 p.m. who lives, who should go to elections before and after, use that most citizens won't be able to go to elections at all, because first, we'll have ranks in polling stations, second, part of the people are afraid to go to elections in fear of the coronary virus they've just produced. I personally think that this fear is exaggerating, but that's what you've been doing all along, you've locked the whole country in quarantine, you've dragged in fear amongst people, you've destroyed the economy, and now before you see the scale of the crisis that awaits us, you're going to capitalize on it. Your voting machine will go to the polls, waiting at the polls, at temperatures above 30 degrees Celsius in the 7th month. So, you've put everything together, but I think the people started to open their eyes, that they're clear on what this is all about, a big scam and what's actually embarrassing is that you haven't solved the key things. You didn't bring moratorium on loans and interest. In the city of Zagreb there is a huge robbery, 45 billion kuna is at stake, you can't agree on the division of the loot, it's a conflict of mob organisations. The question is who gets the money, whether they get the best men and the flocks or sponsors of certain political parties, and now they're waiting for it to happen means after the election. It is clear to everyone, and you will have to answer the question of how our citizens who have determined the measures of self-insulating by bio-terrorists overnight became those you want to see outside their homes, which you want to see in polling stations, and all that is enough to put on a mask that, by the way, you have said for a while that it is necessary, for a time, that it is unnecessary, and now it is necessary again. So, it's about one thing, I'd tell you a big con, but the citizens have exposed you, and it's going to show you, and it's going to show up at this election. Although you will do everything possible to make the Croatian voter's response as small as possible. You do not want to introduce the electronic or correspondence vote proposed by the Most. You didn't support any of the laws we gave here in the procedure. To save our economy, you refused to lift the parafiscal burdens. Why? Because your earrings are in the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, your earrings are in the Croatian tourist community, you're just burdening our people. Can you, my colleague Bačić, answer that in our Dubrovnik-Neretva County, in our Split-Dalmatia County, people who have apartments, and nothing of tourism is there, you will make them pay and a fee for HRT in each apartment, for every receiver. And there's nothing since the season. You've left them everything, you've destroyed tourism with such restrictive measures, and now that you need to go to elections, when it comes to your heads, then everything can. Then it's all a game. You have completely destroyed the Croatian economy, what will you do to save at least some of our tourism? Will you at least cancel the HRT fee for people who have apartments that won't be full this summer, and every month they'll have to pay you a subscription? You do not want to cancel membership for the Croatian Tourist Board, you do not want to cancel membership fee for HGK, you do not want to go out to meet our citizens at all. That's enough of that. We request that all of these measures we have proposed be adopted and that a moratorium be immediately brought to credit and interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180559	And now, in the end, Mr. Miro Bulj will be the position of the Club of Representatives of Independent Lists. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180560	Thank you very much. Here's the esteemed citizens. Now, at the end of this term, The end of this Parliament that was supposed to be the elections three years ago, however, unfortunately the trade coalition kept it with also numerous promises. These days, the government can celebrate with champagne in Split and a session two years ago 2018 where it promised Split-Dalmatia County the largest county of 2 billion kuna projects. These are projects that were promised where committees were created, teams, and otherwise those projects are when I list them, you'll see that they've already been opened several times in pre-election time. Dalmatia as we know is forgotten as our Slavonia, so rural areas 2/3 of Croatia are empty. That's what the Prime Minister promised. For the third time he gave Dračevac to the city of Split as state property, absolutely nothing moved. He promised 196,000 m2 in Zrnovnica land for apartments, zero kunas, garages in Split at 104 million kuna. He promised Dalmatia Zagora a transport connection, promised the Ravca-Drvenik tunnel that connects with the Vrgorac rear, Hercegovina our island Hvar, that would be essentially the coast, zero kuna. While the project lasts in 2005, Branko Bacic, along with Parliament Speaker Luka Bebić, opened the project. The fast road merger of the Sin and the Cetina landscape as the vessels of the housekeeping survival in these areas, 2016.When we were in collaboration part of the government was initiated procedure, so the chosen variant was chosen and since then stopped, invested zero kuna. Also Knin-Drniš connects the road of that remote area, only remember it at the time of the Storm on Victory Day, Sinj on the Day of the Sinj Alka and the Great Lady, Vrgorca for the Day of Vrgorjek prosciutto, Drniša on the Day of the Drniša prosciutto sweeps the tables of the people, and they expect their promises to keep. So the government in Dalmatia invested zero kuna, 0 peoples zero at the end of the term. Irrigation, the Sinjsko polje as we import 3 billion euros in agricultural food products and that's on the rise of the enormous, when we invest never more money in incentives, we've never imported again, we've never exported less. Sinjsko polje unsupervised, Petrovo polje in Drnis, Vrgorsko, Imotsko polje unsupply means from the investment of this government zero kuna. They made so many promises that when I come down to this Parliament, when I see the representatives of the government, I feel sick. How can these lights of the reflectors lie to that people, the people who have evicted, the people who have gone outside, half a million people, 6% of the GDP of these people who are coming back to Croatia today, and they have no place to go back. In this term, I have worked hard, and my colleagues propose a number of laws to protect and rule the sovereign national interests, protect our seas and an exclusive economic belt to ban GMOs and harmful food to protect domestic production, which I have given twice, a ban on harmful glyphosates. It is another 45 days until the end of the moratorium for the sale of agricultural land and I have allowed this law to prohibit the sale of agricultural land to foreign and legal natural persons, if the sea of Hungary can and we also have many other proposals and solutions. They absolutely didn't protect anything, except they made false promises.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180561	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180562	On behalf of the club MOST of independent lists, the presentation of the position of the esteemed representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180563	Dear citizens, we are at the end of the mandate and we have fought and sacrificed in freedom for the elections, for democracy so that we should all rejoice in the elections when we will all go before the people and when the people will say what they have to say, who will represent them here. The elections had to be three years ago when the commercial majority and the coins took over the management of the Republic of Croatia, which absolutely from what they had to do, did not do, but here is not the choice problem, today, tomorrow, whenever, the problem is when the National Civil Protection Centre is being politicized, when the ruling party wants to politicise it. It is incomprehensible to me that a man who fertilises his field, ornanica when he is forced to survive and in self-insulation is, is not in touch with anyone, he has to pay a fine of 8000 kuna and when a member of the national headquarters, the bodies in which people have trust, call for self-insulation, call for adherence, the Government, Mr Kopal and Bozinovic intend to track cell phones, do various applications without discussion in this House, take away human rights and freedoms, at 100 times says on election day those people who can put on a mask alone, do not matter what they are in self-insulation, go to a polling post, take a chemical, round and return chemical, it is naturally allowed and it is primarily allowed if you are a member of HDZ or SDP party, then leave. And there's the problem. The democratic election is what's normal. I was here among 12 parliamentary MPs when we didn't want to get ahead of ourselves and become chips of any kind and after a few months of regular elections, we went to extraordinary elections. And it's nothing in democracy. If this government had faith, then it would have secured faith in democratic processes, then they would have provided both HDZ and SDP with an electronic and correspondence vote. And we wouldn't have any problem. All people would have the right if it were digitized, the right to vote. Both in Croatia and in diaspora. It's not enabled. And of course those who, since this is the last break, that is. ... the possibility of making their position known on behalf of their club, those who have made that decision and who are responsible for the regularity of the election. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They're responsible. That every citizen of the Republic of Croatia has the right to go out and be secured at the polls. It's just that the problem, so most of us took that responsibility, everything else about the election, no problem about the MOST club, but we're personally happy about the election. To have the people choose their new representatives. It is much harder for me to accept that this crown crisis has exposed all the bad policies of the Croatian government in this term. When we have no higher GDP, we have never had more and more emigrated Croats who sent 6% of GDP into the budget of the Republic of Croatia, when it revealed what is with the self-sufficiency of our agricultural production, when we import more and more food products and never again invested in subsidies, when you did not have the courage not only to destroy our 800,000 ha of agricultural land and give it to our farmer, but from 1.7. And we import pomidores, I often mention them, while in my Sinj field there is no irrigation system because the deadline is up. Now that's the problem with this crisis. If the borders close, God forbid in the pandemic, we won't have a pomidor in three days if we're not from imports, and we have conditions for everything, and that's why I'm disappointed that you didn't accept these four years of proposals that I've been giving you. Thank you very much. Dear citizens, we are at the end of the mandate and we have fought and sacrificed in freedom for the elections, for democracy so that we should all rejoice in the elections when we will all go before the people and when the people will say what they have to say, who will represent them here. The elections had to be three years ago when the commercial majority and the coins took over the management of the Republic of Croatia, which absolutely from what they had to do, did not do, but here is not the choice problem, today, tomorrow, whenever, the problem is when the National Civil Protection Centre is being politicized, when the ruling party wants to politicise it. It is incomprehensible to me that a man who fertilises his field, ornanica when he is forced to survive and in self-insulation is, is not in touch with anyone, he has to pay a fine of 8000 kuna and when a member of the national headquarters, the bodies in which people have trust, call for self-insulation, call for adherence, the Government, Mr Kopal and Bozinovic intend to track cell phones, do various applications without discussion in this House, take away human rights and freedoms, at 100 times says on election day those people who can put on a mask alone, do not matter what they are in self-insulation, go to a polling post, take a chemical, round and return chemical, it is naturally allowed and it is primarily allowed if you are a member of HDZ or SDP party, then leave. And there's the problem. The democratic election is what's normal. I was here among 12 parliamentary MPs when we didn't want to get ahead of ourselves and become chips of any kind and after a few months of regular elections, we went to extraordinary elections. And it's nothing in democracy. If this government had faith, then it would have secured faith in democratic processes, then they would have provided both HDZ and SDP with an electronic and correspondence vote. And we wouldn't have any problem. All people would have the right if it were digitized, the right to vote. Both in Croatia and in diaspora. It's not enabled. And of course those who, since this is the last break, that is. ... the possibility of making their position known on behalf of their club, those who have made that decision and who are responsible for the regularity of the election. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They're responsible. That every citizen of the Republic of Croatia has the right to go out and be secured at the polls. It's just that the problem, so most of us took that responsibility, everything else about the election, no problem about the MOST club, but we're personally happy about the election. To have the people choose their new representatives. It is much harder for me to accept that this crown crisis has exposed all the bad policies of the Croatian government in this term. When we have no higher GDP, we have never had more and more emigrated Croats who sent 6% of GDP into the budget of the Republic of Croatia, when it revealed what is with the self-sufficiency of our agricultural production, when we import more and more food products and never again invested in subsidies, when you did not have the courage not only to destroy our 800,000 ha of agricultural land and give it to our farmer, but from 1.7. And we import pomidores, I often mention them, while in my Sinj field there is no irrigation system because the deadline is up. Now that's the problem with this crisis. If the borders close, God forbid in the pandemic, we won't have a pomidor in three days if we're not from imports, and we have conditions for everything, and that's why I'm disappointed that you didn't accept these four years of proposals that I've been giving you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180565	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180566	The next club of representatives is that of the Most Independent Lists on behalf of which the respected representative Miro Bulj will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180567	Dear people, dear colleagues and colleagues. Today, HS will disband and elections are the expression of democracy that I and my colleagues fought for in the Homeland War, Croatian defenders. I would especially like to thank my Most Representatives Club, who we fought together, for trying to change things because in Croatia without fighting for the people there is absolutely no movement, and this House is exactly the body. This must not be a body that will be someone's extended arm, the hand of a coin, the hand of a fold, the hand of personal interest. We need to talk here about what the people need and what they need and what they've led us here for. Thus, in 40 days, the moratorium expires for the sale of agricultural land, and it is unprocessed, unsettled as we chair the EU and while we could solve this problem, unfortunately none of the Government has done anything, either the prime minister or the minister. I have given here with my colleagues a number of laws regarding the protection of agricultural land, as far as national interests are concerned, the protection of our Adriatic's exclusive economic belt, without a rich village there is no rich Slavonia, which is why 2/3 of the RH is empty. Today when we break up, I ask the government what will happen after 6 months with workers, the minimums late, entrepreneurs say they can't pay their workers or minimals. At the end of the 6th month, the moratorium expires, what's behind, what's going to happen to the workers? What will happen to those people who are 6% of the GDP that we have evicted from outsiders who lost their jobs not by their own fault, but by the bad policies of Croatia driven them out. This policy, so this crown crisis has shown what Croatian people have led to politics. Croatian MPs, MPs, must exclusively fight for the people. And we fought in the Homeland War for a free and democratic Republic. I remind you colleagues and colleagues, my dear people, that in Split two years ago, there was a government meeting for Dalmatia where two billion kunas were promised to join the road towards the Chetino end, the Vrgorsko end, the iot end, the Drot end, the Sibenik end, know how much has been invested so far at the end of the government? Zero Kuna, zero kunas except for a promise that will now throw stone foundations down in Dalmatia's Zagora, Lica, which will be blizzarding under the Sibenik, Zadar hinterland. That's what I'm talking about. I have also proposed a number of laws, mainly to protect our food production, our agriculture, to ban GMOs from importing, transporting, trade, but only to prohibit this ban from preserving domestic production. Unfortunately, today we have 800,000 hectares of raw agricultural land. Only my Dalmatia has 200,000 hectares, to process this agricultural land could hurt and feed only Dalmatia 11 million kuna, while we import pomidores and other food products from Italy, Spain. Let them close the border for just two days, we won't have enough food products. That's why I feel obliged to thank the people who gave me the votes and my parliamentary representatives from MOST colleagues. We have tried and we have shown that we are no one's tokens and I call upon the people to vote for the people who will fight for them, and no demagogues that are exclusively in the given moments and only chips, and certainly not the people's representatives. The national representative whom the people feed and he is only obliged to answer to the Croatian people, not Brussels, not the prime minister, not anyone. Once again in the end, I'd like to thank our officers for putting up with us here for four years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180568	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180569	Now it is up to Mr. Miro Bulj to present the position of the Club of Representatives of Independent Lists. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180570	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, here I am because today we are remembering the international recognition of Croatia of our country. In these difficult times, however, the most important ones were Croatian defenders. However, the fact is that it is more than hypocritical when we see some calling for those days because Minister Ćoric, who left here, broke the Law on Croatian defenders on the issue. competition for director of the Krka National Park because it was much more important for him to hire a person here and to set up a tender for a person who has two party cards, an HDZ card and an HNS card from your gentlemen for the coalition partner Ivan Vrdoljak, or I don't know if he may have a card and a break from Milorad Pupovac SDSS because there is Duic, who also pushed that person for the National Park Director, is essentially in league with your party, and you are calling for some values about the Homeland War. Well, your gentlemen, the minister is violating the Croatian Defence Act. Ms Ljiljana Zmijanović is a Croatian defender and today she is i.e. It came out in public that the inspectorate's decision to break the Law on Croatian Defence, and in the 7th month of last year, the verdict was passed, the power of judgment that Mrs. Ljiljana Zmijanović, i.e. That this is the director of Mrs. Crescent's office. who is now Nela Slavica, that she is illegally employed and that the law on Croatian defenders was not respected regardless of what Mrs. Zmijanovic has better conditions because she was a Croatian defender, a scout in the Homeland War. But you're full of gentlemen, the more important Minister Coric is much more important how to hire a party who has an HNS card, at the same time, that your sir, and your Mr. Šipic, your party, gentlemen from HDZ. Therefore, I also asked for the thematic session of the Defence Committee after a powerful verdict, where it was re-hired by the same person, so imagine how much the Kingdom of Spiders is mayor and Dujic, how much the Empire is in the Sibenik County. Imagine, in the national park to hire a person who has worse conditions of professional, quality and has no status of Croatian defender and this is the second time that information comes out today when we remember, meaning international recognition of the Republic of Croatia that Minister Čorić who is otherwise a pest is ecological because he intends to do his job, then would not from Vrgorac 120 km from the same sanitary conditions bring the solution that.../incomprehensible/... together with the inspector, that the garbage is transported 100 km to Sinj, to Sinj, Mr. Šipić, I think you will try to resolve this because you have said that you have solved, but the solution still stands. Once again in the end, I must repeat, on this day, here are messages to all Croatian defenders from that time. How you feel and why you leave this Croatia and your children because it is more important that the candidate for director of Krka National Park had two party cards, HNS and HDZ. And Mrs. Devereaux. Zmijanovic, who was the defender of the Homeland War, who has better professional qualities than this lady, however, has been employed, regardless of the judicial verdict that Minister Coric again has been misbehaved here when he answers questions, which he has violated, and now the inspectorate has again made the same decision to violate the Law on Defence regardless. I'm sorry that this isn't the Minister of the Bear who didn't fit very tightly on the board, I'm sorry that he's not Mr. Djakic, who calculated when he called that session as president of the veterans. I'm sorry these people didn't stand behind the defenders, and you're calling yourself here in person today. Here is one reason why the smaller number, as Prime Minister Plenkovic said, received votes for the counties of traditional HDZ and because these counties are pests along with our Ministry of the Environment that drove people for these things because they have more important IDs. HDZ and HNS rather than professional quality [[Thank you, Mr. Bull.]] and defense status. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180571	And the last is Mr. Miro Bulj, who will present the position of the Club of Representatives of Independent Lists. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180572	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. My colleagues and colleagues, I'm glad Mr. Bilavuer and his associate are here to discuss the subject, we were here last night. There was a debate on Minister Divjak until 3:00 last night, and I mentioned it. In the education system, there are problems, and here are the key children. We have one huge problem mainly in the Cetina region, although in the Republic of Croatia last year, 10 buses were burned down with children. So what happened with the home for the elderly and the powerless is a disaster, and these 10 buses only in my Sinj and Cetina region burned down 4 buses every month on a regular basis one. And of course, I did three months ago work to make inspection surveillance of the bus. The only thing I got, I got the answer that of your meaning from the inspection, that's your portfolio, that's the surveillance of Prometheus Sinj and that's directed to the MUP. And that leaves two months from the answer, 2.5 months. But the other day, however, the bus burned down again. Do you know why? Buses are old, they don't care about our kids, and the owner absolutely doesn't care that's one special story, it's a story for the Ministry of Finance. Transport Makarska was a strategic passenger of the 2009 Auto Transport Sinj, in February a restructuring and consolidation contract was signed, absolutely nothing from the contract was reached, but it was a guarantee meaning guarantee, a bank guarantee located in the ministry that it was 17.9 million kuna. It was.../incomprehensible... to buy in amount, I don't know exactly, but it seems to me 12 or 13 million kunas in 2-3 years to buy new buses. Well, our kids, gentlemen, are driving on buses over 20 years old. The same owner, Prometo Sinj, also has Transport Makarska, new buses for Germany, for Split, but the children's water, drives in and our parents cry to me, hey cramp, their dick when you throw them like I said in an atomic bomb they're going to fire. So imagine you four buses have been burned recently, which is a fear sent to school, and we're talking about pillation here, so I told the minister last night because she has to react to this too. Because the ministry decentralises the funds and subsidized the county through the ministry of a certain, of course and local self-government both which and how much that can help parents and that's okay. However, a man made at the bus station half did a technical examination, of course, of pure corruption to the distinguished secretary. I expect you to get rid of this corrupt system, that our drawer is not driving on the 20-year-old buses, that parents don't hold back when their child is burned on buses, I'm not just sick of a memo from you, I'm not tired of a memo from you that, that the inspection report has been carried out and what is now the inspection report, will be fine, but there is, over the land of the owner has been made a technical examination, who is reviewing, how he examines, requested himself and the session of the City Council of Sinja, I expect inclusion and county, we must not allow our children to be threatened by the lives of children, whether or not the elderly and the helpless, our children, in this case all the passengers, but the most sweetest money that I have been submerged, where the bus in those corridors, in the hallways which are unadjustified for children, but the weby, but the safety of which has not been found in the only by the car and the children who burned in the car, the car, the car, the car, the car, the car, and the car, and the car, and the car that didn's, and the car, and the car, and the car, and the car, and the car, and the car, and the car, and the car, and the car, and the car, and the car of the car, and the car, and the car, and the car, and the car, and the car, and the car, and the car, and the car, and the car, and the car, and the car, and the car, and the car, and the car, and the car, and the car, and the car of the car, and the car, and the car, and the car that the car, and the car of the car, and the car, and the car, and the car of the car of the car of the car of the car of the car, and the car of the car of the car, and the car, and the car, and the car of the car, and the car of the car of the car of the car of the car, and the car, and the car of the car of the car, and the car of the car of the car of the car, and the car, and the car, the car, the car, the In the area of the Cetina region it is a huge problem, 4 buses were burned in a few days, and this one gets neat money, owner of money on the account, and nothing respected, the owner's name is Mate Jujnovic, that better knows Schuker, he signed the contract with him as finance minister and from here I call the finance minister to see if he's respected The contract and let it charge the bank guarantee [[Intruder: Time]] Thank you very much. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180573	Thank you very much. We're done taking a stand.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180574	Now there will be a speech by clubs and independent representatives, so free speech, so please, those who won't listen speak to leave the assembly, and those who speak first is the first time a colleague of Slaven Dobrović from MOST should prepare himself.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180575	Dear colleagues and colleagues, please take your seats. Who wants to stay, and we're starting with the views on behalf of the club. We can get a little silence so that first, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, a respected representative, Slaven Dobrović, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180576	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180577	My colleagues and colleagues, please, come on in and have a colleague, Dobrović.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180578	Thank you very much. The citizens of the city of Zagreb have already been exposed for more than 2 weeks to significantly worse living conditions, i.e. worsened air quality. This refers in particular to the particle pollution defined most frequently, so on measurement cells as PM10 and measured and defined, of course, in other ways. But no other parameters like nitrogen oxides or volatile organic compounds are much better. We can ask what's causing it. It is certainly the weather that does not allow the dilution and dissipation of the pollution created in Zagreb in the last two weeks. This means that a good part of what we are broadcasting remains trapped by a stagnant atmosphere over Zagreb, leading to an increase in concentration. This raised Zagreb high on the rankings of the world's most polluted cities in a short time, in just a few days. But whether it is only that higher power or here has the responsibilities of those who have ruled the city for decades. We can come up with an answer when we think about what's emitting all these contaminants. So we know good, traffic, system and heating through numerous individual furnaces and boilers but also poor waste management are among the most important segments that emit pollution. How to reduce traffic emissions? It is clear that a public transport system should be strengthened especially by those driven by electricity, at the same time working on traffic flow and reducing the number of vehicles with internal combustion engines. What is the trend in Zagreb? We can look at one of the latest studies called the optimisation of traffic flows on the road network of the city of Zagreb and we will see exactly the opposite trends. So in the last 30 years, there has been a clear and stable trend in increasing the use of personal cars while reducing public transport use. Is this also the direct consequence of the bad city management policy in this segment? The answer is yes. Ovens and boilers, heating systems. We all know that worse fuel and old boilers pollute more. Coal has long been and is not used but there is no excuse nor for leach oil as energy except for polluting it is expensive. Today, gas or condensation boilers are no longer the best rescue solution that has long been considered to be because gas, of course, is a fossil fuel that emits certain contaminants and, in other words, generates and a greenhouse footprint, i.e. carbon footprint, today are... and renewable sources that offer the best solution. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Their price is increasingly favourable and becomes competitive, therefore, for use. And then we come to the question of how it is possible, even today, in numerous city-run institutions, to use exactly a lot of oil, so it is about schools, kindergartens and various homes, a lot of oil in the city of Zagreb, and we can tell how many particles we are recording today in Zagreb's air are the result of this very practice. So it's certainly a remarkable contribution. Responsible or irresponsible policy is clear. So irresponsible politics and here's the waste. The waste can be managed as in Zagreb where I don't know who, what, when and where it goes, where and when, say, composting creates a stink where it doesn't insist on creating a whole over-reliance system with an optimized transport, necessary infrastructure and with a fair system of collection and responsibility at all levels. But, of course, it has to be managed differently, as it seems and can be seen in many cities and municipalities in Croatia, which will contribute to both better efficiency and lower emissions. In this sector, the situation is catastrophic. So the conclusion is not just air, or atmospheric opportunities are which gave us the opportunity to see the catastrophic state of a series of policies in Zagreb, which must certainly and should be fixed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180579	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180580	Now it's time for the esteemed colleague of Nikola Grmoy, the club of representatives of the Independent Lists, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180581	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, so I will talk about currents, the Republic of Croatia has unfortunately been transformed into a country where stakeholders and individuals no longer cross over from anything, the latest in a series of evidence that this is also the case of a bank in the Republic of Croatia which has publicly published an ad seeking the Agency for Public Relations, a popular pirate, who will press the Constitutional Court to make a decision in favour of the high state body and other banks. Some today want to attribute their clumsyness, just as some try to justify the brutal liquidation of the secret services of a failed regime with a distinctive style of expression. But this isn't about any awkwardness, it's about words and deeds that have been said and done with imagination. Unfortunately, our institutions give the impression that they can be influenced by lobbying and manipulating the public. In particular, as far as our Constitutional Court is concerned, the impression was created when two of the largest parliamentary parties engaged in political trade around the town of the Constitutional Court and chose as judges spent politicians instead of excellent lawyers and experts. What wonders, then, if individuals or stakeholders feel that such a court may be affected. On the other hand, trust in the state institutions and the rule of law melts like a polar hat in the Arctic, and when we talk about this very trust, we must also look back at the case of our police officer who has been sexually harassed by her fellow officer in the service whose password is security and trust. By reporting this work, she expected the institutions of this state to protect her, and that the judiciary would effectively punish the perpetrator, instead she experienced humiliation through a court ruling that was handed down on behalf of the Republic of Croatia, her pain and suffering had occurred, meaning no, not only once during that act, but also this verdict. We've received an epilogue of this case these days through a public apology from the President of the Supreme Court for a court mistake. We can believe the sincerity of this apology, but we cannot help but wonder how many more people deserve an apology from the Croatian judiciary for the damage it has caused them. At the same time, the son of a general who was filmed with the Home Secretary was not sentenced to jail for possession of 5kg of drugs, but was replaced by work for the common good. How after this, anyone from this government can talk about the fight against crime, against drug dealers, how after cases like this, anyone can talk about fighting corruption, and unfortunately they can do anything, and the small ones, the banks can, the sons of the dignitaries can, and the vision of order in this country is being introduced to football games where people are going to be brought in for two drunk beers, of course, champagne will flow in the lodges. Another example is how this country and this government, without any feeling, are trampled by an ordinary man who is fighting for his existence and existence of his family, is the Law on Contributions, which was amended by the end of 2018, these changes have introduced increased burdens for the contributions of directors and members of company management. We warned at that time during the debate and through the amendment that many of our small entrepreneurs, especially beginners and young people, will have big problems to raise money for paying new taxes, the Ministry of Finance and the Government did not hear about our small entrepreneurs, that when we say entrepreneurs seem to be some people who have money, these are our hairdressers, all of the people who have some twists. Today, when these obligations come at the expense of many of our micro and small entrepreneurs, they threaten blockage and closure. We at MOST yesterday have proposed a solution, I expect you colleagues to support it and help people to continue working and live here in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180582	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we will now take a stand on behalf of the clubs and will be the first to speak on behalf of the club MOST independent lists of respected MP Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180583	Thank you very much. I will talk about the issue of traffic safety especially when we have the fact and statistics that 10 buses in the Republic of Croatia burned down last year. I would now warn myself here once again, and tomorrow I will have a press release and we will have civil action in the area of Sinj and the Cetin region because every month a bus burning down in which there are children and here, in the last few months four buses of Prometo Sinj burned down where the only skills of the driver and the speed of the driver are simply saved lives, full of our children's buses. Parents feel so insecure that when they send their children to school, that they literally call me as agents often not knowing how to express their insecurity, they simply cry for their children and send them as if they were sent to death. I think this is one of the serious topics that we need to discuss because transport security is very important. The fact that bus owners are mainly now going back to car transport i.e. on Transport Sinj, which was taken over in 2000, i.e. who became a strategic partner in Transport Makarska in 2005 where in the restructuring and consolidation contract the car was not met by any condition of the contract, where then the owner also committed to buying Prometo Makarska as a strategic partner and buses in the amount of 12 million kuna, however it was never taken but even half of the bus station, the public goods was built by the Technical Transport Station itself. The buses look like they're from Rwanda. I can't believe they're not in Transport Makarska in Makarska, they're not on their way to Berlin, for Germany, here's the day they don't call their parents a bus stop, there's a busload of kids, insecure, and that's what I wrote about, here's what I wrote to the relevant institutions as early as 31st, i.e. On 17 October 2019, I sent a traffic inspection which sent the report after a few days after she sent it to the MUP. Since there's an esteemed secretary here, I expect the MUP to tell me what's up with those buses that visually when you see them, they look like they're from the last century, what's happening in the beginning of the bus, just those buses stop on the road when they're driving students from Split to Sinj and inside, they're full of buses, not only in the seats, but in those halls. Often burning the bus, frequent fires on buses, we simply have to stop and obviously this is about corruption and a corrupt system because, for example, it gave guarantees to the owner of Prometo Makarska, Mate Junovic, 17 million kuna that are located in the Ministry of Finance. Did he honor the contract? I'm asking all the ministers from Minister Shuker who did it to the Minister of Finance today. Still standing in the vault that money, old buses, people are afraid, sending their parents to school in rural areas. Even this bus that drives the students of Sinj-Split, however, we know that the school is the founder of the county, that the subsidies and the Ministry of Education, education, subsidies, there is local self-government and counties, however, no one at all, I have requested a thematic session with 12 signatures in the city of Sinj and I expect that there will be this session, that we will set up a conclusion, however, because of the inaction we have groups on social networks, I will in Sinj with those citizens because it is my obligation as a representative, to go into civil action with the honourable secretaries, in front of the ministry to bring these people with pictures of these buses in which their children are transported. What if that bus that often burns, burns the kids in it? It's hard to imagine what a tragedy that is. Let's stop corruption in the traffic system. Here is pure corruption, here directly affects the technical examination of these buses that are ancient, even trade unions have declared that buses in us are over 20 years of age. 20 years old. When we were setting up a taxi service, it's something different, so now the new law five years old can be a taxi, and the 50-year-old buses are transporting our children without any respect for the rules and technical conditions. They all have confirmation that they are technically correct, it's pure corruption and citizens are moving into action. I'm going to Sinj for civil action because it's my obligation to protect children. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180584	Thank you. The next club is that respected representative of the Bridge of Independent Lists, Mira Bulja, who will speak on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180586	Thank you very much, esteemed colleagues. Also, here at the beginning would absolutely condemn the attacks on the press. All of us sometimes have remarks, especially me who... The press, but the attacks on journalists and on the media of physical, verbal or physical should be condemned by all of us, because it is a direct blow to democracy and I this way, here I am supporting journalists with their press freedoms, and no matter what we are sometimes, I repeat all of us dissatisfied with some articles, with some writings, but indicatively, without media until writing, there is no freedom. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, I'd like to speak here in a frame right now what's very important to me, these are projects in Dalmatia. A few days ago, 10 days ago, Prime Minister Plenkovic came in and with his associates and his opponents and Mr Stier and Mr Kovac to visit a little... Split, there was some celebration so they went to Imotski and they came to Imotski to promise that by 2023 there would be a sheave for the property end, it means from Zagvozd to Imotski's access road, which will be on the highway and which is really significant, but this is the 10th time, that this 10th time, the 10th election is in pre-election time to promise them the way to the Property. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I would point out that I've given amendments four times in a row, not once accepted. As it was rejected, there was a minister here, traffic, they refused the amendments, as well as the mergers in Dalmatia Zagora and Drniš and Knin, and in particular the launch of a fast road project from Križica to Kukuzovac, a merger of Cetinska krajina, which is larger than Međimurje County, I always repeat, superficially, and by the number of inhabitants is larger than Ličko-Senj County. Of course, I also laid the cornerstones because even before the elections when Minister Kujundzic came, Plenkovic opened up in Zagvozd, I don't know, everything he didn't, I laid the cornerstones so that they can go now. To promise something that they will end in 2023, and this year there are elections, so what do they really do to those people in Dalmatia? And that's the basic reason why people leave. 2016 was launched means a feasibility study for, for years there has been talk about the merger of the Cetina region and Sinj, with the highway and it is indeed, with this project Sinj and the Cetin end becoming the suburbs of Split. Split is overcrowded and a Split swimming pool of over 300 thousand people from Trogir to Omis and simply there is no di developing. The Cetin end, as well as the Dalmatian Zagora, are the most perspective areas for the survival of people and for the arrival of people in Croatia. But for the veins of the housewives would indeed be a Chettish end, the Dalmatian Zagora, along with these verticals, would be the suburbs of Split and in tourist times, at the time of tourism because we know that the below brand and tourism would have something to show people from that area. Investment in tourism needs to be increased, so it went automatically, agricultural production because we need to know that we don't have a system solved or drained well enough. And the Sinjsko field, the Vrgorsko field, the Petrovic field, the Drinski field, so Kninsko field, these are areas that move out. With this project they deserve, here's only the river Cetina's distinguished secretary, i.e. Associate Minister of Transport, only the river Cetina annually gives 40% of the hydropower of the Republic of Croatia, and here we are literally mocked by that road that is projected somewhere around 200 million kuna, which, I repeat, would have brought the Cetino end of Split closer, would have become suburban, conditions for life would be phenomenal, better than in the city because Split is overcrowded at this point. They have no place to build apartments or houses or buildings, and this project is a vessel for the survival of people in these areas, so they move out. And we have vice versa, here, Petar Škorić knows that literally everything is empty in the Dalmatian Zagora and that is, of course, the culprits are false promises of all the mayors, and the counties are cancer-earned leaving people from that area only since the counties were founded, 100 thousand people are less. Is that enough? About the numbers, how many schools have been closed, how many health services have disappeared simply, I will do it another time, and this way again, do not rub the people's eyes or Minister Butkovic or Prime Minister Plenkovic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180587	Now it's time for the esteemed colleague of Nikola Grmoy, the club of representatives of the Independent Lists, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180588	Thank you, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, so every Wednesday, at every stop with only a week apart, there are so many new affairs or replays of those old people who push under the carpet to achieve this vision of stability, it's clear to everyone, it's just a cover-up cover-up for the destruction that is going on in this country. How much political and human responsibility it takes for citizens to be systematically deceived and lied that everything is okay in a vital sector like health care and that we lost 4 years, and literally nothing has been done, so we're going to have a new minister, he's going to have some kind of short time in which of course he can't do anything, and that's what I believe everything needs to be worried. Patients suffered, doctors, nurses, all citizens, but did not want to give in although the facts said that a man who manages Croatian health did nothing, did nothing, did nothing about huge debts, neither about the treatment of patients, nor about the status of medical staff, did it, was called administrative councils, pushed into drawers, covered up when MOST on two occasions covered all of this in 52 reasons for leaving the minister, no one wanted to listen, you did not want to listen to you colleagues from the ruling coalition, did not want to listen to the prime minister, there was a hearty defence of Minister Kujundzic, and yesterday before the end of the term, only the plays and replays of previously seen performances. The minister did not leave because of the situation in Croatian health but because of perception, due to the impression said by the prime minister, he left because of the stability of HDZ and the government, which is most important. Neither Croatian patients, nor doctors, nor nurses are important. Health care is on its knees, education is not moving from a dead spot, there are fewer children in school benches and more guru selling us fog. Demography is in such an apartment that people rightly wonder where this strategy the government is waving with, is it the same strategy as health and education, the nonexistent as the emperor's new routine in Andersen's fairy tale. So Croatia disappears and the government has announced 100 demographic measures, tomorrow it's only one. So I think 99 have announced them. So on the agenda puts the Law on maternity and parental support that is insufficient, there was no constructive debate, there was no measure to keep the families in Croatia, so they in power for anyone but themselves, for this perfect thieving balance, as I once called it in the Croatian Parliament, this balance of corruption, affairs and false promises. We presented a concrete measure and as regards these maternity and parental support, we talked about it yesterday, our Sonja Čikotić and Slaven Dobrović, we will talk about it and tomorrow, we provide legal proposals that go in favour of our citizens but no one listens to it and everything that we talked about happens at once. About a year and a half ago, we said that Minister Kujundzic should leave, and now he's leaving, and that's what we said about these other ministers in the government. We also spoke that the HNS and HDZ coalition was agreed, and then the president of the HDZ accused me of being a liar, there were worse accusations, but everything finally turned out to be true, everything turned out to be, that a colleague of the HNS Curaj, it all turned out to be true, but unfortunately it all happens with a little bit of corruption but people open their eyes, I am convinced that they will recognize those who offer solutions, who are fighting for the interests of citizens and will say a lot of these corruption affairs, a lot of corruption, a lot of false promises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180589	The next club of representatives is one of the MOST independent lists on behalf of which Sonja Cikotic, a respected representative, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180590	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I'm going to talk here today about demographic change. We urgently need a demographic strategy in Croatia that will be for a period of 10 years so that young families can start their families and to be able to plan their family policy. And I'm also not just talking about those first aids that are being given, let's say that they help with the birth of a child, so then we have a system of maternity benefits and support, and I also want to talk about foster mothers. So there should be a certain step towards these women in a way that materially increases their material conditions for them and their families. I also want to talk about assistants in class. All that does is actually one system that's necessary for that country that actually wants a demographic revitalization. Every year at the beginning of the school year, we have a problem, whether to arrange for the assistants in the classroom in time. We have different practices from county to county, some counties pay off regresses, some counties don't pay off, some pay out Christmases, in some counties the selection process starts in time, and some kids don't find their assistant in class when school years start. As a state, if we want to deal with demographic revitalisation, if this really matters to us, one public policy should certainly have provided resources for helpers in the teaching process and also not to lower their status under one regulation, but we need to settle this by law which will then be voted in this legislative body and so that these assistants and those children who were about 4,500 had and enjoyed the confidence of the system that tomorrow will not be left to themselves and the families. Similarly, as far as maternity benefits are concerned, it is important for us to make this demographic strategy a standard for mothers and children. It is enough to depend on their rights at the home of the mother or the residence of the child. If you are born and are born in a small Slavonian municipality for your child, you will receive a gift of about a thousand, two or five thousand kuna. If you come from some rich community or city it'll be multiple more. Without this strategy, which is crucial for demographic revitalisation with key measures, we should actually say that in 555 municipalities and cities cannot be different prices for kindergartens. Well, we're all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. That's what the Most stands for. We also need to ensure that other policies, family policies, are included through this demographic policy, let's say the child's salary that they are not 199 kuna, 249 kuna or 299 kuna. It is simply not enough in this time, it is not enough to be serious that a person whose household has 534 kuna per member of the household can receive meaning his family for the child 299 kuna. So that's the poverty line, it's poverty, 300,000 children in Croatia are bordered by poverty. When we talk about the Ministry of Demography, what the Family Law lacks. Where's the Family Law? How long do the procedures before the social care center, which all of these powers have in the welfare centres to actually protect children's rights so that parents guardians do not go into lengthy court proceedings and additionally burden the judiciary? Also when dealing with issues and concerns, when dealing with alimony issues, do these children really have quick procedures, if these judgments actually happen, these procedures, how many years it takes, and it's a child's life. Have mothers, single mothers, in any way welcome in our society, which we mechanisms from local, regional communities have ensured that these children have equal opportunities. I don't stand for it, and I won't argue that we're all the same, but I'll always argue that we all have equal opportunities especially in education, especially in education and social rights. So our children, our mothers are the highest values of Croatian society. It is time for us to have a constructive policy that will not ask how much it costs but how effective it is for our society and for our children who are our future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180591	Thank you very much, we'd like to finish today's work. We will continue on Wednesday 5 February at 9:30 with a point of the proposal Energy Development Strategy by 2030 with a view to 2050 and wish you a pleasant weekend. Session interrupted at 13.10 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180592	5th in a row Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists and Honored counterpart Slaven Dobrović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180593	Thank you very much. Dear President of the Parliament. I welcome all my colleagues and colleagues. Yesterday in public space, I had the opportunity to talk about a waste management system that shows very bad signs, so I criticized the system, after which a very quick opportunity to respond was given by competent minister Ćoric. I was also talking about the regulation and some deviating phenomena, the minister referred only to the regulation as if he had heard that more than 50 units of local self-government and communals had been confirmed by the complaint and at the Constitutional Court had objected to a regulation that really had serious difficulties. However, the minister failed to do something else, respond to remarks about how the system is being built, about insisting on what is actually a system failure measure, these are waste management centres, etc. in which the rest of what the municipal system failed to separate comes, prepare for a circular economy. Of course, it is very disproportionate to what the prime minister began to say when he greatly praises the European Green Plan. And I would warn the minister to study little about what is going on in Babina Gora, Luka's distance, Lečevica, and that these are projects that have a express clientelistic character run mainly by counties that have no knowledge, no ability, no responsibility for the sector. Centres that are extremely expensive, which cannot meet and meet the objectives set in the sector and centres that pose a major threat to both the environment and people. So it's full truth, and at the same time it's not the only thing that can enable local self-government units to meet their goals, what exists in Prelog and in Krk and Osijek, and what some have already achieved their goals. So that's very important, Minister. And this clientelism, therefore, which unfortunately passed the entire Croatian society and which is particularly present in this sector, really eats Croatia's future. It will be able to spend practically all the money available in the wrong way, so it is a political trade and in particular in Zagreb we have the situation in place, and in addition, the city of Zagreb has not been the only object to this regulation at all, and I think we are able to see what we actually have in Zagreb or in all of Croatia today or these days. Have we completely lost all criteria to the general good, according to progress, to the citizens' interest? This will show the behaviour towards GUP which Bandic persistently pushes to the city of Zagreb, which Bandic is an eclatantly one clientelistic project against the profession because we can see that the entire profession is urban, architectural, cultural, therefore quite unique and institutionally and individually raised against this project. So all this together to deny and support the Zagreb City Assembly, such a project will actually say a lot or prove what it is known these days to hear that HDZ, or Prime Minister and Protector Milan Bandic, is also serving his purpose here in the Parliament. I think it's time we all saw it together the way it is and that we knew Judge in the election. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180594	The next Club of Representatives is the Mosta and Independent Lists and in the name of which will be spoken by the respected representative Marko Sladolev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180595	Thank you. Dear MPs, therefore, in what political toad we live in, speaks a statement by Mayor Bandic, who otherwise rarely tells the truth, and today he has told the brutal truth about individual representatives, which is: "When I was your father, then you kept quiet, and now I am your biggest thief." So he detected the conversion of people who are now playing the opposition, and he came out of their incubator and they are actually guilty of Milan Bandic being at the head of the City of Zagreb today. Today, however, I will talk about GUP, what is currently in the Zagreb Assembly and what the Zagreb Bridge has proposed amendments that were of course not accepted. It wasn't practically obvious about them. Political design of the City of Zagreb which brings only problems because it has no ability to view the whole, existing basic GUP to which these changes are referred and complemented by the 1986 GUP. There have been major changes that require a new GUP. It has been 34 years, and urban planning has not moved from a dead spot and has taken steps with new ways of designing and solving spatial problems. In Croatia, changes in social order from socialism and entry into capitalist society and the market economy, social property in private ownership, and urbanism of the city has not caught up with changes. Where are the reflections on the sustainable development of the city? Demographic projections of development, obvious climate change, addressing the problem of circular waste management, developing transport infrastructure based on which strategy is the city developing? The whole profession opposes this incompetent and political devastation of Zagreb. The estimated changes and additions contain 200 points that are tailored to individual, private interests and destroying the integrity of the city's quality resolution. HZUA President, in his lecture, exhibited Zagreb is exhausted, urban tissue is devastated. It's the face of privates and city officials. And it is these officials who want the great green city plot of the jewel of Zagreb the stock of past generations for the future area of today's Hippodroma to devastate while their unsettled stands localities in the center of the city such as the area of Badela and Gredela with which they do not know what would have paid them dearly. Globally around the world, cities are planning a multidisciplinary approach, a serious and long-term assessment involving both the public and the profession. Unfortunately, the city of Zagreb has no strategy, so there is no vision of the development of the city, but through the GUP it solves particular clientelistic and private interests. He invites representatives in the city assembly if they have any morals and dignity to reject these changes to the GUP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180596	The next club of MPs will be that of the Most Independent Lists on behalf of which the respected representative Miro Bulj will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180597	In Croatia's Croatian citizens, according to our report that we have about 10 kg of fish at the official State Statistics Office, unfortunately we import fish while at the same time we have one of the largest fish farms in Europe, it is on the river Ruda, the river Cetina, where a trout farm was built in the 1980s. There were 40 people working on that farm, the whole place, it's a municipality, an island in the Cetitian region, the whole place beautiful where we have a source of ore, and there's this farm today turned into municipal waste, for this we have, we don't have a lot of words, we have just three words, we have privatisation, we have debts, bankruptcy. City councillors from that municipality and people from the Dalmatinski and City and City Halls and people from that area wanted to solve this farm, 240 swimming pools, of which 100 fish milking pools, traps, are converted into municipal waste. This farm, which meant 140 large pools, not counting 100 small ones as I said about a small trout, so a total of 200 of these 40 swimming pools and swimming pools is considered a rare economic complex not only in the Republic of Croatia, unprofessional management of the farm, changing owners, remaining debts, and everything culminating before 2.g. when it's definitely closing. The then, then, means it is also the owner of Ogulin, simply went, raised his hands, who is all involved no one knows, but the people of the area where the emigration is sending a strong cry to the government, councilmen write letters to the prime minister, all of them, meaning that survival, turns into a communal mess, it's one beautiful, the second time I'll bring you a picture of what ore looks like, what it looks like, the river Cetina flows, and the prime minister isn't responding, the Ministry of Agriculture doesn't fit, of course people are now announcing protests here, from a fish farm that was perspective we Croats who import the fish frozen who knows where everything is being brought in, we destroy the fish market and even have been built up in 80 years. Why can't you hear the screams of those people? I can't understand that it's in anyone's interest to break up so much in these three words that we often repeat all of our ends, privatisation, debt, privatisation, debt, bankruptcy and so on in this farm where the Croats unfortunately when we all call for a fish that is a healthy diet, unfortunately we're still lagging behind and behind Europeans, and in Europe there's about 25.5 kg per capita, in us, unfortunately there's a lot less, in Portugal there's 55 kg, meaning the needs for fish are there, mainly freshwater fish, the largest fish farm on the River orda in the municipality of the island, in the village of Ruda is forgotten by all, not guilty of these people, the most, the finest, purest, healthy diet, destroyed. Here I had this obligation to say here, saying that I stand behind all these people, these locals, mostly those young people who have raised their voice and I will stand by them, and this way I call the prime minister, the minister, all in charge of having all the resources and finally stop the destruction of the farm on the Ruda River and start producing trout fish, and we have All conditions for that. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180598	Let's go to a second presentation on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, dear colleague Bozo Petrov, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180599	Ivan's been weird lately, he's irritable, he's 15 years old, and his parents attribute it to adolescence, to one normal development. There is almost a euphoria at times, then there are moments of blackness, and while parents hope it is a passing phase, the first comes a call from school. Parents learn that Ivan has long been out of school, catastrophic grades, and he is also following a disastrous attitude towards teachers, towards colleagues. Then comes the call from the police because the nightmare doesn't stop. Ivan was found, caught stealing and was found extasy in the search. How did a good child get to the perpetrator of crimes? And how did his life get sealed up before he got in a fair fight in the first place? And what you've heard is not an isolated example. Currently, there is an epidemic in our society that is not spoken of, columns are being filled about the coronary virus, about an exotic virus from far away China, about that epidemic that is now ruling in Croatia, the government is almost being distracted, the silence. On days in Croatia, you have almost 100,000 addicts on gambling and gambling. The fate of an addict touches 4 to 8 people in his surroundings and please, before you shake your hand and before you stick your head in the sand like an owl, I will warn you that the good kid at the beginning of the story may be your son or your grandson one day. Why? Because the system is so complex in Croatia. Experts say Croatia is an open system for gambling. The bookies, the casinos, they open easily at every step of the way, you have them at one step to the school. In particular, according to DZSS data, in the 1990s there were about 350 sales venues registered for the performance and sale of gambling. In 2009, over 1600, today, in the Republic of Croatia you have over 4000 payment places for betting games, over 7500 machines, 234 auto clubs, 15 casinos, this is this open system where gambling is intensely advertised and it has led us to the next. Gambling is one of the most common addictions in Croats with over 100,000 addicts. 40% of minors make a regular bet. 13% of minors have serious psycho-social gambling issues. In Canada, for example. Only 1.3%. Troubled gambling is associated with antisocial personality disorder, alcohol abuse and drugs, criminal acts. I therefore call on all, especially the Government of the Republic of Croatia to raise awareness of the problem because today you have tens of thousands of destroyed lives and families that eats both the state and society in the long term and the state does not have a systematic monitoring of the appearance of people who are pathologically gambling, nor are legal norms being respected, a national strategy to combat addiction that was written 3 years ago still in the drawers of the ministry. The sooner we can legally regulate gambling, the better we need to introduce risk-recognition practices, implement preventive interventions, educate teachers and understand ourselves, there are pilot projects that are successful, which have tried to show excellent results such as the project at the Faculty of Education and Rehabilitation, University of Zagreb, titled "Who actually wins?" Unfortunately, the state still has no hearing. Should we touch the bottom here until we understand the level of trouble? But if you don't care about others, I remind you of something else. Ivan may one day be Ante, perhaps Marco, perhaps one day your son or your grandson.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180600	Mr. Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180601	Thank you very much. NGOs, the European House and the European Movement for Croatia are organising a European contest at the school titled "Europe Connecting". Children should write literary expressions about giving peace a chance and against it should, no one should have anything. And the subtitle says there has been no war in the European Union in the last 75 years. I ask you from here whether Minister Blaženko Divjak will accept this request and the guidance of these NGOs in this form where the Homeland War is denied or Croatia is not within the European Union. This literary work that is given to children does not essentially mention the Homeland War, if they say that there has been no war in the European Union for 75 years then we do not belong to the European Union and now we are chaired in the European Union. I believe that truth and peace can be revealed, of course, and encouraged to write about peace, about no aggression and against war. However, great Serbian, Chetnic aggression must be forgotten because I am sending this inquiry to Minister Divjak whether our children in the third and fourth grade high school will write about the meaning of peace i.e. of 75 years old that peace in the European Union is a total lie. We must not forget, we should talk about peace, but we must not agree to the forgetful Serbian, Chetnic aggression and the role of the Croatian man, Croatian soldiers and the truth about the Croatian soldier in the Homeland War. I expect, of course, a quick response from Minister Divjak not to marginalize and forget our history. Because if we tell our children that there has been no war in our territory for 75 years, then it's all about us, especially the truth about the Homeland War. I would say right now that when I talk about the Homeland War here and the headmaster of HTV that once again I call him from this pay phone at a stop which is a question of the Homeland War that is forgotten and tried to drag into school classrooms that there was no Homeland War, that it is simple, that we are in the European Union, now that we are chairing it, when we call for a connection, we are trying to tell the truth about the Homeland War. That is why we call you once again to protect and preserve archives from the Homeland War, to protect these materials that our war cameramen have recorded, and Lederer has also died, others have risked their lives, instead of guns carrying a camera, they have recorded the Homeland War, and I believe it is one of the very important materials. I am sorry that you no longer treat this and that this truth is not in the classrooms, not that it is pushed into classrooms that 75 years of peace has been in the European Union, and we must not agree to that. The one who agrees with this lie and the one who pushes this story into the school that it is written that 75 years in Europe was not, in the European Union was not a war, it is a direct humiliation, spit on the foundations of the Croatian state that was created in the Homeland War, meaning that it is a deliberate imposition of what you are boasting that you are carrying everything you need from Rijeka, but protect the archives from the Homeland War, audio, videos, if you do not protect it and if you start pushing and returning what you are now trying or through regimeal features such as the former flag of the Republic, this Yugoslav or similar thing, then you impose a lie on the public and destroying yourself directly based the Republic of Croatia, directly through the classrooms and through the Minister Divjak. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180602	Thank you very much. Of course, at the point of view, anyone can say whatever they want, but it was a follow-up debate from before, and then a little out of the ordinary, but listen, you have the right to do that, so. We're done taking a stand.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180603	The next club of representatives is that of the Most Independent Lists on behalf of which the respected representative Miro Bulj will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180604	Thank you very much. Croatia was humane in the most difficult times of the Homeland War when it received refugees who had fled BiH before Serbian captors in those times when most of Croatia was occupied, economically threatened, then we showed our humanity. However, I am always to help people in difficulty and Croatia knows how to show itself in difficult times and even civil initiatives that have helped our people to help others in difficult times. However, I would point out here one problem that I have spoken on several occasions, but as time moves away the problem is increasingly escalating, and in essence the public's focus is leaving, and this is the problem of illegal migrants in the areas of the Republic of Croatia. Our border is thousands of kilometers towards BiH and this part of Serbia, people of illegal migrants crossing the border without any control, with the immediate commendation of 6,000 and some of our officers, doing maximum work, but we simply have no capacity for such a border. I as a witness down in this area happen that people cross the border illegally and that our people don't feel safe about their material and their lives. I referred to the example on several occasions in the Vrgorak area and the entire area of the entire border and my Sinjska border, Kninski, Lici, Sibenik, meaning according to the Gorski Kotar, simply people crossing the border that the cops do not have enough. I read today's statements asking for the withdrawal of Croatian soldiers from Afghanistan, there's nothing to wait for, a lot of Croatian soldiers were targets and clay pigeons and we don't want to let that happen anymore. A Croatian soldier under the law we have can do police work, according to the Borders Act. And I ask from here once again to ensure the safety of our citizens, their personal and their material security at the borders where illegal migrants enter uncontrollably. What's uncontrollable is not good, people are worried, these people in their own, who are all these people, I don't want of course the triba being that human line, the triba helping people, but there's a way to do it, and not in a way that as a country all the surrounding countries didn't accept the Marrakekian compact, they didn't accept that story exclusively to protect the safety of themselves and their citizens, but these are now insecure areas, border areas are currently insecure. Our citizens don't feel safe, the Croatian police doing their job the best they can not have enough human capacities to preserve that border and that's the truth. I called here on the law that was passed in this House that the Croatian Army could do police work at the border, and of course it should be requested by the police minister, i.e. Minister of Interior of the Croatian Army. Here only in the area of Vrgorca comes Minister Krsticevic, we have uncontrolled illegal entry and there people do not feel safe. I've been having these villages where the houses are, the very few houses and these young families are afraid, they're in fear because if someone calls you at two o'clock a night that you found a car that was in the garage 10km away from your place then you know what it's about. They're afraid for their children, and the first thing we have to do under the Constitution is to ensure, protect our borders and ensure within these limits the safety of our citizens. I call from this place, for the safety of our citizens, for the safety of their ownership, for the safety of the survival of the people in the area, for economic development, for all the reason that the Croatian military is at the borders in accordance with the law and to protect the borders against illegal entry of migrants. I cannot accept what has been accepted that we are not allowed here to discuss the Marrakech compact, and the examples in the Bundestag have been discussed. As Parliamentarians, I, as Parliament's representative, call upon the authorities to go to the border under the law of the army. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180605	Thank you, colleague Lovrinović, we continue to present the position of the club of representatives, following is colleague Miro Bulj, Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists. Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180606	Thank you very much. Here from this pay phone I often talked about problems in health care where we have health services, in education that implement reforms, and basically the ceilings of students on the head, we have no sponges, no chalk, to wipe the board of sponges, 1001 problems that you colleagues and colleagues here say don't get solved every day in the Republic of Croatia. But today I have to speak on behalf of the MOST club on a topic which has been a month and a half since the last days of the earthquake of an affair related to conflicts within a secret and mystic mass organization, in which information has come out that today's state attorney, Mr. Drazen Jelenic, was a month and a half of a day ago, joined this mystical secret organization of Masonic, a month and a half before HDZ chose him and proposed him and Pedja Grbin and SDP gave a warm support. Is there anyone here that works for the general interest without working for the interests of these secret organizations? Is it possible that in the Republic of Croatia the state's attorney had a masseuse card while Ljiljana Zmijanovic, who had the advantage of the profession in the national park, meant nothing that she was the status of defender? We speak here of the government of Andrej Plenkovic and his responsibility with support, supporting means as a condition to become a state lawyer with a Masonic identity card. Is the state's attorney's interest and public interest ahead of his personal interest? Is this secret organization what the prominent, powerful people and all the social classes and groups say in front of the general interest? Is it so much the influence of the locals within these Masonic organizations that they can call like the chief of the town of Nikica Gabric, who calls the former state attorney, the current deputy as media, Bajic, and gives him orders on how to work? Can the head of the masseuse be filmed by a state's attorney? So where's the interest of the Republic of Croatia? So he put the interest of the Republic of Croatia down here? Yes, it was trampled, the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia was trampled, the institution was hit by a key state attorney of the Republic of Croatia who put the Masonic organization secret ahead of the public because he did not say he was a member of that mysterious mass organization. I ask here the question to the Government of Andrej Plenkovic, is it his responsibility to appoint this man and that the secret services have not done the job? Whose interest is represented by the state's attorney now, if he's been keeping secrets from us, from the MPs, whose interest is he, and what is he protecting? Here's a question I'd like to ask, here's because Chief Nikica Gabrić is a Mason Maester in the Republic of Croatia, maybe he knows something more about our vice president, he was also his driver, Mr. Millian Brkic, maybe everyone knows everything, gave the RH here, what are we? So we're state? The state's attorney of the Republic of Croatia here is supported unanimously by the i.e. Me and MOST voted against, I voted against, some abstentioned, but you Mr. Bačić, so is there any Croatian interest here or is all the interest of secret mystic organizations? How about this? So that's why the Republic of Croatia is falling apart when there's a lot of crime, corruption, war profit, privatisation, they're not doing their job, but they're obviously in front of public interest, the interests of mystic secret mass organizations. The state's attorney should resign, and here is too much responsibility, of course, for the prime minister who proposed him and for you gentlemen who supported him. Andre Plenkovic. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180607	We move to deliver a position on behalf of the club of representatives and independent representatives. On behalf of the Most Independent Lists, Mr. Slaven Dobrović will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180608	Thank you very much. The waste management sector in Croatia has been raising public attention these months. At the state level, bad decisions are dominated, such as an obviously unconstitutional regulation on municipal waste management, and then we are familiar with the decision on order and dynamics of closure of landfills without the right alternative, and the worst is slowness and inefficiency in the construction of national infrastructures, sorters, composts, reuse centres without which we remain unable to meet the objectives of the targeted recycling rate. However, there are activities in the wrong place and concern infrastructure for the processing of unclassified residues whose overall capacity is in fact a measure of failure of the sector. That these are the famous CGOs and ZCGs county waste management centres, for which construction has been being prepared for decades, which are usually in this sector without experience, without competence, and without responsibility. Two already built centres of Mariščina and Kaštijun have a lot of work problems, the contribution to recycling is miserable, the emissions of particles and unpleasant smells are everyday, and one of them is already losing a judicial environmental license. But there is no stopping in Dubrovnik-Neretva County planning a waste management centre in Lucino Distance worth as much as half a billion kuna. In Split-Dalmatia County, a tender worth 330 million kuna is being opened for Lečevica, Zadar County is interested in 377 million worth of investment by CGO Biljana Donja, and it is worth mentioning the carlovacka County that cares for 290 million worth of CGO Babina Gora. In each of these counties, CGOs and ZCGs are the largest investment ever run and controlled by the county authorities. That is why it is so hearty to defend it despite all the arguments of an independent profession, despite common sense and in spite of the devastating experience with Mariščina and Kastion. It is not important that a healthy alternative is up to 10 times cheaper than that these investments do not allow them to achieve goals but rather create threats and damage to the environment and human health. So we gave them public money for expensive clienteletic misery from a solution, and we're not asking for responsibility. As the mayor of Istria and the mayor of the Primorje-Gorski Kotar County are now pretty much on the side when the issue of the work of their centres is raised, so these mayors will now move away once the money is spent, the goals do not meet, and the environment permanently pollutes. And Zagreb, that all the signs are that the clientele and how it is tabled in Zagreb. There is already over a year and a half that a project has been launched to produce study project documentation for the construction of the Centre for Waste Management Zagreb, the price is a small price, 30 million kuna only for documentation. Should it be said that for these money could not be drawn, but done, a good part of the infrastructure to reach the desired, requested recycling rates. It is clear that, always and everywhere in Croatia, the whole process of the idea, carefully designed competitions, the control of the selection of performers, leads to the realization of a specially organised and organized clientele, which I specifically warned the Prime Minister about here in the assembly. Because we know for sure that the minister in charge doesn't see any problem in this. Any hope for a change? Who can make these mayors and others responsible? The HDZ mayors are now in play even if the SDPs are responsible for Mariscina, for Kastijun's IDS mayor. When the common clientele name is party membership is less important. Therefore, my message here today goes to the interested Croatian public, all people ready for some public engagement, there is hope for Croatia's country of prosperity, as long as there are also us ready for public interest and determined to reject attractive customerelistic offers. Without perseverance and togetherness, nothing will change. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180609	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180610	The next club of representatives is that of the Most Independent Lists on behalf of which the respected representative Miro Bulj will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180611	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, I'd like a little bit from the masseuse, the free builders or the masons who have the mystery, they're much more important to me, although these masseuses have taken over all the obvious duties and no longer know who is the knight of which order, who is this free builder, who is the master of whom, who is the driver, is the vice president of the train of this train or that one, you don't know anything anymore and in fact whether there is a parallel system? Today we have witnessed a show of the ruling majority who made the circus of the Republic of Croatia and on the very important issue of the census di would statistically, di, that will be seen statistically after that list of the population in 2021 what they did, it will be an indigo for them to do, what policies they have implemented. Those who today are headed by Andrej Plenkovic, Milorad Pupovac, I don't know, Sauchom, Vrdoljak, Bandic, we must call for economic growth to say that we have economic growth in the Republic of Croatia, but we also have 6.5% of the GDP of the evicted Croats. So... Andrej Plenkovic also conducted a coalition with the SDSS, Milorad Pupovac, HNS, Sauche, whom he did not, conducted a policy that was conducted in the 1960s in Yugoslavia. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Only worse, then people, husbands, left their families, mostly in my neighborhoods and came back, and now they all go away, the whole family. We have examples that mostly we no longer have salaries in the birthplaces of our children which is positive, we see that more and more, less is born in the Republic of Croatia, but more and more is paid at bus stations, grandparents, parents who send their grandchildren, sons, daughters. And that's the policy that's been made here today through the play, this unnatural coalition that just half of the SDP came in, in, in, on the side of HDZ's parliamentary representatives or Bandics, no longer knows who's running the state. So much is the power of all these parallel lines to ask ourselves here, so is there anyone that isn't in these secret organizations of numerous knights, Masons, builders or all those secret organizations. So today, when I look at all the reforms called Andrej Plenkovic, and mostly educational reform, pills, technology, new ways of learning, when we look at all these protests, we see that education has been brought to a level, I'm going to let you know that ceiling schools are falling on children's heads, and the minister is waving laptops here and on, eu Brnazam, a big place near Sinja, 5000 inhabitants, a settlement larger than numerous cities, so I just don't know how people stayed alive, children, and we have a problem with not having a sponge to wipe the board or chalk, it's such a situation today, and that's why young people leave. Why are the young ones leaving? Well, we don't have children's kindergartens of 30% local self-government for one child. And now they're fighting here, they're going to be indigo and Milorad Pupovac and Andrej Plenkovic, they're going to be indigo from their carelessness, they're going to care about whether they don't care if they're taking the country today along with ethnic business, businessman Milorad Pupovac, who I absolutely don't know when he was down in Biljani, in the valley in his own hometown, I go down to see how people live. I'm sorry he didn't stay here, because I don't have a chance to tell him in the face if he doesn't care about those people. The Republic of Croatia is extinct, 2/3 of the Republic of Croatia is empty, and we have not implemented IGP protection policy, since this year, foreigners can buy agricultural land, we are not instructed, irriminating our fields, 700 000 m2, 700 000 m2 we have unprocessed clean preserved agricultural land, and our farmers are going to Ireland to plant potatoes. Is that a population list? As for O.P.G.'s dairy cows, we had 64,000 years ago, today we have 4000. We import EUR 3 billion of food, that's a list of gentlemen you understand about. It is a play of the political oligarchy that has beaten the Croatian people and said enough.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180612	Thank you very much. Here, we've exhausted today's work, we'll continue our work on Wednesday 26th of February at 9.30 p.m. The first item will be the Final Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Gas Market Act, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 824. Have a nice weekend. Session interrupted at 13.37 p.m. ... I want everyone, and I suggest we get to work right away. [[Specially enabled.]] As usual, we will begin by taking a stand on behalf of the clubs and will be the first to speak on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists Bridge, the esteemed representative of Nikola Grmoi, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180614	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I have talked from this booth many times about a specific case of serious corruption suspicion. A case uncovered by Croatian diplomat Damir Sablak. What is important to stress is that these affairs in our embassies took place during Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic and Minister Vesna Pusic, and what is almost incredible in this story, that these affairs have decided to cover up HDZ's ruling majority. The Croatian State Attorney's Office, headed by State Attorney Drazen Jelenic, has in this case been treated as the protector of senior officials at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Why do I find this case important? So anyone who follows, we can say almost already that saga, realizes what message in this case Prime Minister Plenkovic, the Government, and all in support of the DORH. Everything is summed up in two simple thoughts said by the Croatian prime minister. The first was when he told me here to answer the question that such reports, irregularities in state bodies, such as the report of the Sabelak diplomats, are not leading to anything. At that time, the DORH at the public moment of Prime Minister Plenkovic was express, so the same day rejected Mr Sabek's criminal charges and we have no insights to this day. Neither Mr. Sablak nor the Anti-Corruption Council of HS. The second capital thought of Prime Minister Plenkovic spoken in this assembly or I don't know if it was anywhere else, was a statement, I can do what I want. It was described in a simple, honest and open manner by the state of the spirit in what he likes to say to his government. Today in the course of the internal elections, the prime ministers were bold to say he would head up the fight against corruption. The truth is just the opposite. Everything he's done so far, he's been acting as the main sponsor, the mecen and the protector of corruption. In his mandate and the mandate of this government, everything would be done to make the brave people, the declareers of corruption, chicanated, insulted and marginalised. So did Damir Sablak, for his courage to talk about irregularities in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the exposure to a disciplinary procedure, in which he wanted to be sanctioned, and apparently wanted to leave him on the street without a job or a future. That's what the fight against corruption in Croatia looks like, dear gentlemen. Finally, I would also like to say a few words about the kind of Croatian State's Attorney General should be. At the head of the DORH, a person who is brave, who is willing to expose himself, should be aware that criminals will not wait calmly to be arrested and will remain marked with that function for the rest of their lives. That is why we need a person of unquestionable résumé, independent of any interests and influences, the Masonic influences of some other secret organizations, interest groups and any other influences. My assessment is that this assembly with this and this parliamentary majority, it has no power to choose such a person, nor will such a person be proposed by this government. If this were to happen in some incredible acquisition of miraculous circumstances, a new chief state attorney would come for this pay phone immediately after the vote, thank you for the appointment, and then forward him in the direction of Remetinca would personally escort some who may be sitting in this hall today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180615	Mr. Miro Bulj will present the views of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists Bridge, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180616	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, here we see now that the problem is the virus, the Corona virus. However, I am now going to talk about one, also an economic and economic big problem, which due to the lack of work, the carelessness of all institutions simply raises only the project which is the most funded, mostly from EU funds, are agglomeration systems. Only in the Cetitian province, where I come from, is 670 million kuna, the project of a Split swimming pool, so, with Kaštela, somewhere around 2 billion kuna, there goes as much as 3 billion kuna. A project that must be completed by 2023 means the end. We have a problem with these agglomeration systems, i.e. disposal and sewerage are simply not all the particles solved, property-legal relations because in the offices of the state administration, and now county, examples in Sinj, where 2,000 particles were to be cleaned, i.e. the path where they pass, the property-legal relations where the sewers and drains pass, nor 70% are cleared of those particles. And now there's a problem. So we're the funds we have planned for agglomerations, for the example of Sinj, through which, through the city centre, an open sewerage problem, where an open sewerage enters the sea, we're questioning this project because we don't have enough examples in Sinj, only one worker is in that office now county. Only one on the settlement of property-legal relations. And in offices where there is no need, there is no need in offices where such a number of people are not needed, it's simply blocked. So, once again, I warn the ministry of jurisdiction and of, and Croatian waters and waters of local and local self-government, if this project is not completed by 2023, the agglomeration system will fail only in the Split-Dalmatia County 3 billion kuna. And now it's questionable when that competition is called, whether it's going to be operational enough to be done by 2023 because we're going to have to pay for the penalty from our budget. A colleague from HSS mentioned well, the problems that arise around the Coronal virus, meaning, which will cause great damage to everyone and to the economy, the economy and, of course, I would like, here is a recommendation to the prime minister, the competent ministers, as we chair the EU, that big damage will be caused by our OPGs, our tourist workers who do business, that they will have damage. Do they have estimates and that... Model i.e. The way they are already, if they are calling for the EU, we are preside over, that the EU will provide us with the funds for these damages that will take place in tourism, for the damages that will take place in, on the CAPs in agriculture and in any other branch. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In this case, as the colleague also spoke about road workers, i.e. The driver. Let it be sovereign this time and let it tell people here who came from Brussels or Brussels, but when we manage, to secure the resources that will arise, not only health consequences, but also on the issue of spreading the Coronus virus will cause economic and economic problems in the Republic of Croatia. And do we have at all some kind of strategy to protect the small family economy in case there is an impact, if those projections, influential small farmers, small craftsmen, father state aid or some Prime Minister Plenkovic, when we are preside over the issue, raise the issue that from EU funds from certain funds, or now the budget is being put in place to help our farmers, OPGs, entrepreneurs, our craftsmen, all who are going to have damage to these due to the appearance of the virus that will obviously be. It will have certain damages or it will happen that what we have imported from Italy will not be able to import because we will probably not be able to do it because of the controls, so we come to a situation where we need to be clear and protect the survival of ours that this virus is causing the survival of our economies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180617	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180618	Dear colleagues and colleagues, good morning, it's Wednesday, the first day of the plenary session of the week and we have free debates. So, the first is the esteemed colleague Miro Bulj on behalf of the Club of Representatives of Independent Lists. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180619	Thank you very much. Our colleagues and colleagues here are witnessing that the EU is changing the paradigm, that borders are being protected from illegal migrant entry. We can see that the key in Europe's hands is from a wave of migrants in Erdogan. So the EU's bad policies have come to an end and the dependence on Erdogan is obviously too great. However, all who have referred to a European solution have obviously made a mistake. They gave great tools, too many tools in the hands of one man and did not know how to deal with the crisis. However, I will point out here what I've been saying for months, and these are illegal entry of migrants into the Republic of Croatia. I spoke 5-6 months ago about a problem over border areas where migrants enter counter-regularly. They enter uncontrollably and, of course, endanger security and do enormous material damage to our citizens in this area in this case, here I will give an example, but this is along the entire border area south of the Gorski Kotar all the way down towards the meaning of the south, according to Dalmatia. That's the case I've talked about several times, to the man whose car was stolen from the garage at 2:00 p.m., in the village of Orah in Vrgorec. The man's name is Mate Vujcic, and at 2:00 p.m., he was called by the police to find his car on the roof, broken all the way down. His personal car was stolen from the garage. I wrote, that shame, the migrant was arrested, the migrant was convicted, paroled and left, but no harm can be charged to the man who, the man who is an illegal migrant. And so hundreds of people. But this man had to lift up, he must have this criminal court when he convicted the sea this before the suit against the Republic of Croatia filed a request for peace, the DORH instead of answering the man within 3 months, not today to the man DORH, and 4 months had passed long ago, and within 3 months. Now a man has to sue the state, and it's the state's fault that an illegal migrant has entered the border. All this is going on too long, and if the state loses the lawsuit, they're going to have to pay the damages, the costs of the proceedings and the lawyers, the interest. The state must, gentlemen, ensure the mechanisms for the compensation of people who suffer concrete damage from illegal migration. The state has a duty to damage these people. The issue needs Andrej Plenkovic, who now holds the EU presidency to EU level. And we already had to consume the law passed in 2016. Croatian Army at Croatian borders. That no harm happens and that, to our citizens and that people do not feel threatened in these areas both for themselves and for their property. I see the climate is changing now, they say we have legal conditions from 2016, then MOST was the one who suggested it, then he had this ministry, and I think it's minimal what we should have done. Not tomorrow, but before. We have an obligation to protect the security of citizens, the security of their property, the security of the economy, the security of tourism, economic security because in these areas, people have a hard time living anyway. Demographic measures absolutely are missing for these areas, people live on agriculture and have a hard time living and are still living in fear of illegal migrants. I call on Andrej Plenkovic, who is changing the paradigm now to primarily protect the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and to find mechanisms to compensate people who suffer concrete damage from illegal migration. And I call on him to raise this issue to EU level to protect Croatian citizens and to fund the EU. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180620	The next club will be the MoST's independent list on behalf of which the respected representative Miro Bulj will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180621	Thank you very much. Here, today we talk all day about projections of climate change and what awaits us, but I will be.../incomprehensible/... real life and what is happening in the area regarding illegal dumps, I mentioned this earlier in my debate, I will talk about former miners where the former miners had an obligation to recapture those miners after the exploitation, unfortunately the miners were not recovered, instead of having a problem of wild dumplings in those mines I will specify a number of examples where we have in our village where I live, because I was born by the miners only we were an exploitation field, but when it was supposed to be a recovery, it happened that those companies had gone into bankruptcy and so the Pilates washed their hands and legislation cared there in case that simply people couldn't do this, that they couldn't, that they couldn't get rid of those bloody wounds. In the area of the Cetinski area are numerous miners, here it was recently meant after the salty rocks several years ago there was coffee in Brnaza mining ex, now we have a problem in the village of Kosute which is located in the town of Trilja where the abandoned coffee known for the roast or sand that was used and sold throughout Dalmatia, BiH as a raw material for rolling and building, there has been a digging and coal for decades for the famous Sinj Rera, a feratta rera that worked from the 903th century to 1962, unfortunately now this miner has become a wild dump for the whole of Dalmatia and simply a few years ago people asked to resuscitate that, with construction waste of that hole, i.e.e. The miner, unfortunately, did not settle, but happened to bring not only construction waste but also municipal waste and the last few days, a few days ago people protested in the village of Kosuta, I repeat, it is in the town of Trilj. The town of Trilj washes its hands that the law does not allow it, the constructor who owns it is in bankruptcy, so people are simply, Trilj put some kind of obstacle a few years ago, a barrier that opened and now everyone in the region of Dalmatia is putting off that waste that was not selected and it became a dump. So in the Cetina region, it's not just the waste and recovery problem of Mojanka, which is now intended to send waste, it's still a living solution but we're not going to allow, but the bloody wounds of the distinguished secretaries, when you're already here, are the miners who haven't done the recovery because simply these companies went bankrupt, they've been neatly exploited, they've profited from these citizens, and today they're not rehabilitated, and now they're wild dumps in the Vetin region, and we know what that means. In this case, I'm talking about coffee in the mines, we say coffee in the village of Kosuta, where people have objected and won't stop at that. I also asked the Minister what he would do today because I see the mayor of Trilla supporting the initiative, but that the problem is insolvent. Who will solve the problem of the wild dump, 100 tons, but we need to know that the ton of municipal waste and 400 kuna waste on dumps, and that's where the tows come every day, on a single boat of 15 thousand kunas is saved, and polluting the environment, polluting the tributaries of the Cetina River and the Kostunicas have ordered this time as before the Brnažani, as well as my Suhaćan and Karakasicians on these numerous miners who are not rehabilitated that they will not become this Kerepovac and wild dump. I don't know what you're going to do, but I know citizens won't allow this kind of behavior. I call on the Ministry of the Environment, the Environment Fund to take some measures, a lot of the Pilate Hand Laundering, the Environmental Fund, the Mayor of the City of Trilj, the mayor and the mayor of the other municipalities, all the pens of the Pilate Arms, the company of the Pilate Arms, and the former miners who were neatly exploited and was a huge profit, washed hands or went into bankruptcy regardless of what they had a legal obligation to resuscitate. This is what we need to talk about. Stop immediately at the end. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180622	Now we move to the next daily item of the agenda, meaning the application for presentation means the presentation of the position, excuse me, on behalf of the Club of Representatives and Independent Representatives. The first is on behalf of the Most, Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180623	Thank you very much. On this Friday, I welcome you colleagues and fellow MPs who are here, and they, and I welcome Parliamentarians and MPs wherever, wherever they are, wherever they are. Yesterday there was a meeting of the Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia on the position of Croatian national minorities, there were Croatian minorities from several countries, our compatriots, who presented their daily problems, which they face daily. In some countries, unfortunately, such as in Serbia, the position of the Croatian minority is little to say very difficult and unfavourable. And what could be heard by representatives of Mr. Zigman's national minority in Croatia in the Republic of Serbia is more than worrying. It should be recalled that the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia concluded there in 2004, signed an international agreement on relations with minorities who have committed and guaranteed certain rights to the Serb minority in Croatia and the Croatian minority in Serbia in 2005. The agreement is based on the principle of reciprocity, but in practice the Republic of Serbia does not respect it. So, for example. The Croatian minority in Serbia does not guarantee the right of representatives in parliament i.e. The National Assembly of Serbia. Before the president of the Republic of Serbia announced parliamentary elections in Serbia and Croatian representatives, our compatriots can only participate in the general lists, not on special lists, as have examples of the Serb national minority and other national minorities in the Republic of Serbia. At a meeting of the Croatian Committee outside the Republic of Croatia, we heard alarming news about the spread of the Croatian minority by local and state authorities in the Republic of Croatia. The Croats suffer in Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, violence and insults, and no one reacts, neither the government of Serbia, but unfortunately neither the Croatian government nor the embassy do anything. So in early February, the windows were broken on the Croatian company Stjepana Radic's building in Slankamen in this year, 10 days later, a Croatian society was robbed in Ljubi near the border with Croatia and so constantly in increasing the Chetnica led by Vojislav Seselj, and of course his beginner Vukić Croats have absolutely no rights. For this reason, the reciprocity signed in 2004 was ratified in the Republic of Serbia by the Serb national minority with 3 MPs guaranteed, 4 state secretaries, 11 mayors, 40 mayors and captains, and Croats in Serbia our compatriots zero. I must also point out that in the meaning of the Republic, we also have a huge disproportionate in money, when compared with the data that Serbs in Croatia receive by minority, and how many Croats in Serbia, Croats receive 1 kuna per minority member, and Serbs in Croatia 37 kuna per member of the national minority. In fact, there is, we do not have, there is a Croatian minority who does not have the right to his representative, regardless of the reciprocity, guaranteed, and here is the Serb national minority in the majority. So is that reciprocity? And that's why I promised to go and see the Croats live in Serbia at the invitation of Mr. Zigmanov. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180624	We are now going to a respected colleague, Bozo Petrov, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of Independent Lists, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180625	Thank you. In recent months, the whole world has been shaking under an epidemic of coronary viruses already feeling fat in the Republic of Croatia. And this virus affects everything, doesn't work selectively, affects both highly developed countries and those so-called countries. Third world. It affects our health, our social relations, but what's most important, affects among others the economy. I beg you don't stick your head in the sand like an owl, as it was already done in 2008 at the threshold of recession when those who were then in power in the Republic of Croatia told us that we were economically independent, that this would not affect us. In the end, when they put their heads in the sand, we felt the recession for the next 10 years. This epidemic, these disturbances that are happening today on the economic market, affect all of us, will affect all of us. We need to take measures, we need a precise plan with concrete proposals, we need to adapt all of our measures, amortize and prepare the economy to get out of everything that's going to happen as soon as possible. You can't close your eyes, you're not bigger than China, you're not stronger than Italy, but unlike them, you still have enough time to prepare. You have different proposals that already appear in the public, than the state acts and intervenes more strongly in the context of sickness benefits, so that all people who have suspicion of the disease should report. In addition, proposals on the moratorium of tax payments, other charges for entrepreneurs appear and the like. Taking care of this situation, we will present you with a few proposals from our economic programme MOST which we believe should be introduced in normal situations, especially in this situation. First of all, I would like to remind you that our entrepreneurs are paying a profit tax fee. This means that entrepreneurs pay in advance a month's tax on that calculation, according to an estimate of how, as they did last year, so now tell me if it's normal for tourist agencies, do you expect that, if you expect tourist agencies to have the same profit now as they did last year without this epidemic, when you have literally higher power today, it's not normal, it's not real, it's not correct. Second, the second proposal that we make to stop taxing the reinvested profits of entrepreneurs, which means that all the money, all the profits that entrepreneurs make and that they want to return to their company so they don't get taxed, and that's what we believe, will be easier to start the economy, there will be less damage. In addition, we believe that, in companies, the costs of the team in tax terms are recognised as 100%. Why? Because then you'll increase your domestic consumption. And as far as we could see, the significant share of GDP you base on exactly domestic consumption, then you have to do it in a certain way and stimulate it. All of these are only part of the measures to be taken. We believe that the aid to the economies at the moment when they are literally struck by a higher power, that it should exist, that there should be a concrete plan. After all, all these measures that we have proposed to you at this point I will say that we have proposed them under standard circumstances because we believe that the economy should be encouraged because jobs will be opened, especially in these circumstances, do not put your head in the sand.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180626	Mr. Miro Bulj will present the positions of the Most, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180627	Thank you very much. Dear citizens you are watching, we all know that Croatia has been given to God a country for the production of the most quality agricultural products and food. I have often spoken from this place, and often others have repeated, Croatia is only as strong as the Croatian village. This crisis, which is happening between us because of the coronary virus, shows how important it is that Croatia has strong agricultural production that meets its needs. Unfortunately, Croatia imports more than 2.5 billion euros in food products. Unfortunately, import lobbys, vermin within the ministries have led to the situation that Croatia is at risk of any threat, the question is that there will be enough food and food products from its own cultivation. However, the fact is that in Croatia we have 790,000 square metres of raw agricultural land that is mainly being prepared for sale to foreign legal and physical persons. So just today after this threat more than ever I call everyone, let's buy home and local products and food, let's buy all Croatian. It is important that we all participate in the preservation of production in Croatia and help our peasants and the OPGs survive. Finally, we must abandon the harmful policies of import lobbys that have ruined domestic agriculture in favour of these same import lobbys. So I call once again on all citizens, all of us individuals, to together once again, a strong message. Let's buy some homework, buy some locals, buy some in Croatian peasants. Let's buy Croatian agricultural products. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180628	And on behalf of the Representatives' Club of the Independent Lists Bridge, we will again hear the respected representative Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180629	Thank you very much. Here, we see that in Croatia what happens in both our neighbouring countries and the world to threaten us and that we have now faced ourselves, that we are now in front of the wall and that we simply need to keep warning and speak what is most important, which is production, preservation of production and food products, and otherwise production, is the coronaryvirus that will cause inconspicuous consequences. We still don't know what's going to happen, however, is the fact that we, as parliamentary representatives from this place, need to repeat constantly buying domestic products, investing in agricultural production, investing in the economy and in the survival of our people in these areas. Unfortunately, here we see that now these results will be threatened to show that what are the effects we do not have production, i.e. which we import 2.5 billion euros in food products, but here, I expect all of us to promote our domestics, buy our domestics, protect the Croatian village and peasants, and thus we will ensure the future no matter what we find ourselves at this point in the threat. And once again, let's buy some homework. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180630	Thank you very much. That's what we're done with today's work and we'll continue our work on Wednesday, March 18, at 9.30. The first item will be the proposal for a law on the execution of prison sentences, first reading, P.Z. No. 852. I wish you a pleasant weekend and that the less we have of the newly ill of the Crown in the state. Thank you. Session interrupted at 2.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180631	We are going to the 5th debate, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists of Honored Fellow Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180632	Thank you very much. My fellow citizens and fellow citizens, first of all, on behalf of the MOST Club, on behalf of all of us, I would like to thank our health professionals who are on the front line of defense, our workers and shop workers, in the hospitality that still work, all those volunteers who selflessly sacrifice themselves to help our helpless, all those who make a selfless contribution to this crisis get over, this threat that is ahead of us, which is ongoing. That's why when we talk about this crisis, then we have to say what this crisis has caused and that paradigm we need to change. We all have to ask ourselves how much together we have done as policies for the self-sustainability of the Croatian economy, Croatian agriculture, Croatian economy. Unfortunately, in the Republic of Croatia we import more food than ever, we gentlemen today have agricultural land that is unprocessed, we today have agricultural land 800,000 square miles that are unencumbered, we have state land that is not divided by our peasants. We need to turn urgently right now in this crisis and in this food production threat. We must protect the Croatian peasants, if the Croatian village is not at the helm of any threat, let alone in this threat that we have from this virus, then we will have inconceivable consequences. Personally, I think that we all try to make ourselves available and that we all want to invite all of our citizens together to behave responsibly. We must all help regardless of opposition or ruling government measures, however, it is expected from the government that certain measures offered by the opposition will be adopted. This is a time when there is no political outwitting and competition. We all know that MOST of Independent Lists has made much of a proposal and may have been the most critical towards the government of the Republic of Croatia, according to Andrej Plenkovic and his government, but at this point only we remain a consensus in the fight for, against this crisis. Not only about the health crisis but also the economic survival of people in the Republic of Croatia. Like I said from agriculture, tourism, economies of all kinds and branches. And that is why the measures that the Most will and will propose and which he has already proposed in the next debates I expect that we will all look together and see and bring what is best at this point. The most important message is to change the paradigm, rely on our strength, return people to areas to live, produce and lead the Croatian village. Because if we don't have a rich peasant, we won't even have a rich country. Unfortunately 2/3 of Croatia is empty. This crisis is all about making ourselves available. And once again, I invite all those who can help, to my neighbor who's older, to get us all involved. Of course, we all need to stick to preventive measures and follow the instructions of our respective services. We all need to make a contribution to ourselves, which is why the MOST of Independent Lists as a party has made all its natives available to the national headquarters in the fight against this virus. And we give everything and I believe that we will all together, the Croatian people have been through many crises, this is an invisible enemy, and that in unity, harmony and unity we will win this virus and that in unity, we will all end up changing the paradigm as winners and that Croatia will live. And finally, in the end, let me just say, to all of us, now we just have to be one person, just people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180633	As we announced yesterday, we're now going to move to a position on behalf of the club. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns and Independent Representatives Željko Glasnović and Zlatko Hasanbegovic, the Honorable Representative Zeljko Glasnović was to speak, is not here, losing his right to speak. Next on behalf of the Intruder on the side, he doesn't understand. Okay, well, of course, the SDP counseling club is pulling, okay. On behalf of the Club, the representative of the Most respected representative of Ines Strenja is. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180634	Thank you. Despite the frequent dissatisfaction about how we operate in the peacetime conditions of the extreme situation, we are often shown in the best light both in good and in bad and in football and in war and in this coronary virus. We don't know what's waiting for us in Croatia, and we can only epidemiologically predict the worst scenarios like Italian, but so far, it seems like we're having a three-point spread curve. In other words, we have a solid passing time in relation to our neighbors and the world. I believe that at this point in time, we must especially thank the National Crisis Command, which takes us step by step at this time of crisis. What I want to tell you from this position is this. As for a number of other medical conditions here, the choice is much more learned in our hands and consists in inaction, non-dating, non-gathering, non-socialization. Let's show community in distance. It's up to you fellow citizens and it's because of you. Some of us can do less than others because calling them is an active concern about our health and your health. Doctors and other medical personnel are on the first line of defense. They are also at the greatest risk of infection and are aware of this exposure, help, organize and sacrifice, work without rest without saving themselves as well as in peace only more and more difficult. At this point, 14,000 doctors and 30,000 nurses are working and there is a huge burden on them that they will carry on their backs and we firmly believe in. So, at this point they will work even harder and more dangerously, and I would like the Croatian public to recognize and appreciate it. I appeal to the media to avoid sensationalism under the cover of transparency. I also welcome and do not downplay all those on whom the state will depend during this period, and these are those that will allow the normal functioning of the state and I particularly welcome both salesmen and truck drivers and all volunteers of the Red Cross and all other associations who faithfully and every day despite the dangers of making this country function normally. I apologize to all those I forgot to say hello at the moment. At present, nothing is normal, and the premonition of normal behavior in abnormal circumstances raises common sense. So I ask you all to strictly adapt to these war conditions in which classical courage is no longer a virtue. Moral maxes for all of us are the same. Avoid society and contact. I said the state of emergency is like war, but fortunately, it's not a real war. The epidemics have their own legality and it is certain that in a few months this one will be behind us. That's why we keep our heads cool. Panic doesn't do any good. Let us especially worry about our oldest, most fragile, most vulnerable outcomes, and primarily care about our own behavior. But let's worry and actively so we're at their service. This kind of situation reminds us of the general and specific social values, unquestioned truths, what is really valuable, the solidarity that determines every individual destiny, the meaning of public health to which neither history nor present, and certainly the future finds no alternative, to a country that determines us physically, spiritually, geographically and socially, which is greater and stronger than any money and material treasure and to a country that, with a good strategy that today represents the crisis headquarters and the health minister provides the greatest security. This is a time of contempt for selfishness, lies, pride, greed and superficiality. Yesterday we specifically talked about war profit, today they sent me from several places from Croatia an ordinary box, a box of massacres, masks of the cheapest ones that were 50 limes, now that one box is 480 kuna, so 50 pieces of 480 kuna plus VAT. Shame on you, shame on you. So, a time when hypocrisy, sweet talk, empty rhetoric, or political demagogy does not pass, a time when every wrong move comes to the charge, a time when we must have faith in others and act so that others have faith in us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180635	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180636	Mr. Miro Bulj will present the position of the Club of Representatives of Independent Lists, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180637	Thank you very much. Companions and colleagues, respected citizens. I would just like to begin by commending, the example of my colleague and colleague before me were talking about protective masks, the problem of medical equipment. I would only take a short chance here to point out the positive examples of those tailors who have closed their salons and free of charge with their material and all that means the products of these masks, this is an example of the associated women, mostly women who had tailoring salons in Sinj and now have a few dozen of them working together with masks and for the lung department, for the Split hospital, for the House of Health Sinj, for maternity care, means free work while these things are being closed and thanked from the heart, I will commend them here my Sinjka and probably my heart is big, they have a big Chetino blue heart, but I would commend all the other jobs that work and other jobs, but here is the example of women who have now closed, have no support, while other war profiters sell what was 5 lp, I said, here my colleague Curaj of HNS, I am glad to say that HNS is precisely, when I answered that this is that the war profits which are now have been made by the 50 kps. It's war profit. It's the worst form of inhumanity. If we have anything here right now, here we are in this House, opposition or ruling, it's to be human, to be human, and that's why any bad means what's wrong, it's to be punished, war profit, if war is declared. in the fight not with the mouse but against the enemy who carries the rifle but against the crown of the virus. Once again, thank all these people, here I have pointed out, it is tailors from where I come from, but I also see in all of Croatia that there are people who, while locked up, show that human line and we need solidarity. And when we talk about solidarity, then we need to start from top to bottom. If you need to cut down, I don't know, pay, I don't know civil society associations, so we need to pump all that money up for job survival. We now have to change the paradigm, I have given a number of laws mainly on agricultural land, agriculture and import problems. To be self-sufficient because we have a Slavonia that could feed 20 million people, today we have 800,000 ha of land is agricultural, clean under the weeds and 400,000 ha is the property of the state. For 2 years, if we had passed the law, only 11,000 km2 was divided, not 2%. I gave one law, and I asked the prime minister here, that our main problem is food and import production, the food products that we import 2.5 billion. And we're less exporting a billion euros, and that's sad. Because we addicts have become import foods. Import lobbys have done some damage and we need to change the paradigm. I also gave the law in the procedure that would have been removed, so if the state, the ministry, gave local self-governments to make land allocation programmes, this must be given the opinion of the county. And the county's giving it back. Why? Because he wants to control it. Well, that should be thrown out, so I'm going to give Prime Minister Plenkovic or Minister Vukkovic every authority to divide the country into a Croatian peasant. And I'm going to repeat again what's important, if we don't change now that we have to produce more, mainly food, food, to import grain, cereal products. The bread, the pastry we import frozen, it's a disaster. We import pork and we weeds on agricultural land. I support them to share land immediately before sowing, now these 400,000 hectares of state land, produce domestic, buy domestic, buy local, change from this difficult health situation to paradigm, change it completely. We ran the wrong policies, so let's face it. It was all about import lobbys. I always mention the pomidores from Italy in the tourist season we import, and the Sinjsko polje unprocessed, the clear river Cetina goes we have no irrigation system. At this point, let's buy our own home, give the land to the agricultural Croatian peasant, without the strong peasants there is no strong Croatian state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180638	Let's move on 10 is at the work of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, respected colleague Bozo Petrov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180639	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, today we are sitting in this building is just one of the images of the extraordinary situation in which our country was found. Today we could, too, have witnessed these weeks and those earthquake images of the destruction of the City of Zagreb, including those of the much more difficult earthquake images of older, powerless people who hit this crisis. On the other hand, there were those images that sting, those images that lift the spirit, which are all those people who are fighting in Croatia today with this crisis by health professionals, police officers, all those who have been burdened by this particular crisis. What matters is we are the ones who choose pictures, especially those images that we will witness in the future because at this point we are struggling with those first short-term measures both in health and in the economy. We know that this crisis will not only be a health crisis but we can see it on the pier and the house very well and the economic crisis. And in the economy the rules apply almost the same as for health, the coronary virus will be much easier to hit by the person who is immunocompromised, who is at risk of health, much harder to hit the person who is healthy. The same way the economy works. Countries with a solid healthy, strong economy will get out of this crisis much faster than countries that have remained on only one economic activity, tourism. But this isn't the time to cry, I'd say this is our chance to do something, so if all the calls in recent years on different sides weren't enough to finally start doing something, so maybe this is a real incentive. Maybe this is the moment where we should finally start thinking long-term. We finally need to be the country and I think we can do it and I think it's the right time. We finally need to be a country that is not dependent on imports, but an export country, finally a country that produces something concrete and added value products. And if we're going to approach in the right way, if we choose the right measures of the medium- and long-term ones, we won't depend on just one economic activity, and we don't need to be afraid if someone is going to sneeze and we're going to lose jobs and we're going to end up choosing whether we're going to have pictures of the future that are happy, which is either bold or we're going to have earthquake images because we're going to have people on the streets. I would therefore call on the government and all those who are political actors today to put their heads together, all these measures we listen to in the short term, they are short-term, yes, it is necessary to free entrepreneurs from contributions so that people can keep their jobs, that they should put grants into the economy because entrepreneurs feed this country and the state with them should share the risk of all this. Yes, you need to put a moratorium on loans, you need to cancel the profit tax fee, all that is necessary, but these are short-term measures, medium-term and long-term measures, and I call on the state not to run away from what it needs to do in the first place, which is cutting all costs. Today in a crisis like this you can see clearly which parts of the system, the public system are needed and vital, which are not and that is what the state needs to cut immediately. All the money collected in such a way should be poured into the economy and that is the only way that we can choose those better pictures, those that bold and do not hesitate, with every day of hesitation can only be worse for us. With every day as fast as we can, we'll get out of the crisis faster, we'll help not just us. It's for the people who are close. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180640	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180641	Following is the position of the Club of Representatives of the CNS. Since there is no representative, Milorad Batinic, the position of the HDS, HSLS and HDSB Club Club stands, and there is no Croatian representative. Next is the presentation of the position of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists Bridge, as there is Representative Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180642	My colleagues and colleagues, the Honorable Chairman. Markets for agricultural and domestic products are closed. We need to open markets urgently, of course, by following the measure. Because if we do not open markets, both milk and agricultural products will have to be spilled, and we will continue to import dairy products and agricultural products. They're mainly at risk now, so people who, I'm going to say, here's the example, here's the time of strawberries, where they're going to sell strawberries? Where milk will be sold and where agricultural fruit material will be sold, and we know that many people at this point have their own nursery that will sell fruit material, now it is time to plant, sow. And we've closed markets, while at the same time in this crisis we import agricultural products. Vanca markets can also, with certain measures, be maintained and sold, domestic cheese, domestic acid or cream, domestically, all domestic products. Well, my men, we cannot isolate our village and peasants and import foreign products. They've been isolated anyway, left alone with them for years. Instead of promoting the purchase of domestic products in the markets now, to organise measures in the markets, to stick to the measures set by the headquarters, because it is an external space, better than in the trade chains. More vulnerable are the cashiers in the chain of commerce than our grandmothers who sell on the market there, on towels, sell domestic products. We all have to send a message from this place together. So, guys, what's wrong with us? Well, we can't shut down a domestic farmer now that our guy who milked cows this morning has to spill milk because he doesn't have to sell it. And homemade creams and homemade fresh cheese, so we're all at risk. So what do we do now? In trade chains to buy goods supplies from foreign producers? I think we should put an end to this right now. So let's buy our own home and organize, absolutely with the measures required by headquarters to be controlled according to local headquarters, civilian headquarters, civil protection headquarters, to organise it in sales markets. If it can't be 30 grandmothers, it has to be 9. And to organize with the help of civilian headquarters all measures of protection. And a way to stay that production. Or example, now the planting material. How they'll sell fruit material to a farm, our farmers, who deal with it, who have their own greenhouses, plastics. In what way, florists, how will our domestics sell it? Where are they gonna sell that? That's what they used to sell mostly in the markets. At cattle fairs that aren't there now, but the markets are their only way and that's how traditions and customs are done. Therefore, I call once again, to protect domestic producers who are raising their voice more and more. Let's stop the import lobby, see now the results of the import lobby and the damage done to our production. We know that we import food from 2.5 billion euros and even import from cereals products, bread, pastries, pork. What do we do now? This year, we're not gonna plant anything. We simply have to look at these measures that people can pass from one municipality to another community, to process in tractors, of course, alone, there won't be 10 in tractors. And if the markets don't open, if the markets don't open, the village will be destroyed. We, with all measures, respecting measures, do not say here that the measures given by the National Headquarters are not respected, but that, in coordination with civil headquarters, civil protection on local self-government, regional, sales are organised in domestic products markets. Because we're gonna end them this way. In trade chains, we can buy foreign cheese, foreign products, and homemade vervain strawberries, how are we going to sell them? Come explain to me how we're gonna sell them, now here they come to stork in a week or two. How are we going to sell, here's an example. So open markets immediately with all measures to be respected. If foreign goods can be sold, food products in trade chains, I don't see any reason not to sell on our markets. Open up the markets immediately. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180643	The next position is the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj on behalf of the Most Independent List Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180644	Thank you very much. I would also take advantage of this moment here at the end of this week's meeting to send thanks once again to those who are on the first line from doctors, health workers to traders to all who are now working, and, above all, police officers, firemen, all soldiers, all those who have a responsibility and who are responsible for maintaining this system and after this health crisis, we must think about preserving our domestic production. I warned i.e. yesterday. pointed to the problem of closing markets, at the moment when we import Italian vegetables and fruit, it is forbidden to export Croatian products, so we have a problem that literally our milkers, cheese producers, cream producers, fruit producers, vegetables, simply what can not last long will have to throw these products away. In order to protect domestic production, we now have to change the entire paradigm today and my law here was included in the emergency procedure, let the free government prescribe it, that finally the land is agriculturally owned by the Republic of Croatia, 400,000 hectares, 400,000 hectares of state property totaling just under 800,000 hectares of agricultural land is under weed, clean land. So, I call on the Government to share this land in a shortened procedure without any obligation or concessions, but to those who want to work, not to be under the weeds. And there's a huge problem with these people who are now producing, an example of me being called people who are dealing, who are producing Vrgorian, Vrgorje strawberries, in which way they're going to distribute it now. I therefore call on the national headquarters last night and said they would allow the market to open in certain closed spaces, but there is a market in every quarter of Zagreb that can be controlled and protected by the measures we have. So here in my town of Sinj, there's a market too, so there are better conditions here and safer conditions can be created than I repeat in the trade chains. So urgently open up to the instructions and measures that we have in our trade chains where mostly import goods to open our markets urgently because people don't have where our small OPG producers have nowhere to go with their goods. And the obligation of all local headquarters, not only to organise those sales in the markets and the way and model of delivery of those goods. Now that the people, the municipalities are separated from one of the, examples of the separate Sinj from the Croats so where the ones with the Croatian products, where the ones with the Vrgorje products, so we must urgently find the model and that model is simple. If they are more endangered, I repeat them to the cashiers in the trade chains than those of our grandmothers who should be organised, of course, according to the instructions and rules of the national headquarters and all the measures to start urgently selling this agricultural product from our OPGs. We'll just destroy what's left, while at the same time we're importing it all from other countries. So, we don't have any reason not to open the markets urgently. Last night it was said to open, the National Post, the market, but the terms of this. We don't have time to wait. Today there must be open markets in accordance with the measures to be respected and bought domestic products, to buy domestically, to buy Croatian, to buy local ones, so we have no other messages now, to change the paradigm. If we have so far enjoyed import lobbys, is it simply 2.5 billion, 2.5-3 billion euros we import food products, and we have never invested in agriculture again, therefore incentives, and we have never produced less. We import pork, import bakery products, while our 800,000 square acres are under the weeds. At this point, I would only conclude, immediately open the markets, if we can sell foreign imported agricultural products in trade chains can also be sold according to the measures in Zagreb and Split, and Sinj and Osijek our domestic products is the only way to survive our OPGs. At this moment of crisis, we need to change the paradigm, focus on our own production, according to self-sustainability, and for that, the Republic of Croatia has conditions. Only a Slavonic field can feed half of Europe, not be under our weeds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180645	I thank Representative Buljo.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180646	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I welcome you all. We're going back to work. Just a few sentences before we start free debates. On behalf of all MPs and deputies, I would once again like to express my gratitude to all those who, in these difficult moments, care for our health, for our safety. First of all, I'd like to thank the doctors, the nurses, the medical staff. I would also like to thank the Croatian police and the inspectorate, in the case of Zagreb, HV, firefighters, all the services that participated in the recovery of the earthquake. I would also like to thank all those workers, cashiers, merchants, our carriers, all who allow life to go to the Republic of Croatia as normal as possible given the circumstances in which we are. Here I looked at today if you remember when you just started last week on Wednesday, there were 18 thousand in the world and about 600 dead of the coronary virus, today that number is over 42000, so only in 7 days more than 24000 people died of the coronary virus. As far as the Republic of Croatia is concerned, thank God they are not at these levels, and I hope that we will succeed in resisting the challenges that this coronary virus brings with it. So, once again, thank you all, thank you to the people who run the Civil Protection Command, but I repeat once again, especially to those who are on the first line. Let's go now with our work. As we have announced, the first is to take a position of clubs and then we have two points of the agenda today. The first is the esteemed colleague Miro Bulj on behalf of the Club of Representatives of Independent Lists, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180647	Thank you very much, President, colleagues and colleagues. In this coronaryvirus crisis, which is both health care and economic and any crisis, I think it would be worth the honorary president, colleagues and colleagues at the very beginning to remember the death of the first Croatian director Josip Jovic. I see yesterday there were delegations from the president, the MUP, the council, I don't know, I didn't get the information...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180648	He was an envoy, a minister and my HS.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180649	I think it would be good to remember in the assembly that first victim of that first Croatian tear for freedom. I think it is good in these moments to remember this union, and Josip Jovic as the first victim for the freedom of the Croatian people is basically an example of how we are trying to fight in difficult times for the Republic of Croatia and that their sacrifice is not in vain. So here I would like to at least stand up for a moment and remember and honor First Officer Josip Jovic, as well as all the other Croatian defenders who have put their lives in the foundations of the Republic of Croatia. Here I would now go with what I thought, briefly I would just say that the same thing as the president said to all the services and volunteers of the people who are in the Red Cross, in Civil Protection at lower levels, are not visible, I know the volunteer myself, I work with them, I cooperate with them, these are the same great victims who give their time, risk their health to help most of our powerless and elderly. Well, I'd just go in here and say, like I said, you'd quote that freedom is the most important thing. He would quote here Ivan Gundulić, who wrote back in the 17th century, “All silver, all gold, all human lives cannot be paid to your clean lipo. ” So when we talk about freedom, then we can't allow the crisis to be produced through people becoming chipped on their cell phones. Freedom is important, the crisis is difficult. Self-insulation must be respected, and self-insulation must be punished, those who violate it. However, about such a beautiful, so dear, about such sweet freedom that Josip Jovic gave his life for I think colleagues and colleagues that we need to discuss more seriously than people on the phone are being monitored now that we have fought for freedom and that basically those who have been in high positions for the time of Yugoslavia, in times of communism, are now making us the way we're going to follow. To fight the crisis yes. Here's an example. We have a problem with agriculture. We see some of the measures being taken, but I would suggest here that the markets, the markets and the stands be opened urgently, and that it is controlled and that our Vrgorje strawberries are sold, people call me, they will have a problem and all the other products are not seeing any reason why they can't control our outside markets where they are more vulnerable these in the chain of commerce di sell foreign import goods and agricultural products that in this way urgently take, here I would send here, open the markets, but of course with respect to all the measures that the Trig adhere to. We simply have to help our farmers in this way. He would also mention our health care professionals here, the president of the assembly welcomed them, we all welcome them here, I think, and we admire each other, but I think we're also trying to say something that we should do right now. I was called by medical personnel from the Knin hospital who have not received travel expenses since 12 months, and daily travel by 150 km, from Knin, from Split, from Drniš do not receive travel expenses. So here I call upon the mayor of the Sibenik-Knin minister I have met on the written path, that these heroes of ours we are now calling, to get rid of their travel expenses, that would be correct to those people we call here. Finally, I would say that solidarity is very important here, but here, I am sorry that the EU does not show solidarity to our Italian neighbours. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180650	Now it's 12.47 minutes, so we don't damage anyone, since I don't see anyone but Mr. Hrg. What? Yeah, I know. All right. Extraordinary circumstances, more tolerance. A statement by clubs and clubs of independent representatives is the first Mr. Grmoi in front of the Club of Representatives of the Most. We've been waiting for him, we've been waiting for you, Mr. Bolt. And welcome. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180651	I don't know if it's any kind of mistake or, Mr. Petrov would have on behalf of the club, I had an individual discussion. And the breaks are this. Yeah, yeah, yeah, okay. Okay, we were out here, so it's awkward that this one, and this morning I was attacked by the President of the Parliament, that I was some kind of fraud, a matchmaker, even though we agents couldn't be here at all because two representatives from our club were here and we didn't know about this deal that SDP agent Peja Grbin and President Jandrokovic made. So I think that, and here, I'd like the President of the Parliament to apologize for that, we didn't have any bad intentions, we wanted to replicate according to the Rules of Procedure. As far as the position is concerned, as far as Mr. Bačić's position is concerned, so here, let me state my position on behalf of the club. Well, they're distracting me. [[Mr. Grmoya, please. Here you go. You're welcome to speak. /]] So we also clearly communicated during that first, first package of economic measures, or measures to help the economy, that we would support it and support it only, but also then we warned the prime minister that it was not enough. I remember exactly the replica I had with the Prime Minister, where I said our entrepreneurs, our craftsmen are not looking for delays, they're asking for write-offs. Now the prime minister finally realized that simply, this first package of measures was not enough and he went with these stronger, more concrete measures that we asked him to do and of course we will support it, but we also need to warn about things that have not been resolved by this proposal. What about the raids, what about the loans? We're going to refer to these measures of ours, here, I've collected for our 7 emergency procedures laws, but I'm going to ask my fellow MPs and another legislative proposal concerning moratorium on loans and performances, stopping operations, simply that can't happen at this point and also, as far as these cuts are concerned, which have been announced. counterpart Cikotic warned that it was going towards cutting projects from EU funds, public procurement, that is something that is inadmissible. If you're going to cut, go first, start from the county, Minister Maric, start from the waste of money in public institutions, or institutions under the control of the county. Our entire health system doesn't work, so the mayors are responsible, and you're looking for funds here first, not to go into cutting projects, and then you'll probably go to cutting salaries for those who are on the front line, our doctors, our nurses, our cops, people who work at the border, teachers, teachers, are they going to cut their salaries? We will be their voice because until you touch the county and until you start cutting there, then you have no right to touch the salaries of those on the first line. They need you to raise their wages. Doctors, nurses, so the police, the military, so their salaries need to be increased at this point. And we won't let you touch them until you touch the county until you touch the mayors, there's no way you'll get away with it. Concession Miro, that concessions, remember how Mayor Ževrna left, or that he did not become a candidate. What happened in the Golden War and what is happening around the Ben concession, which is happening in Dubrovnik-Neretva County, knows counterpart Bačić very well in how concessions are awarded, as it happens, as it is mixed. You touch that, when you touch that, then you'll even be able to think about touching these people that are now on the front line. But we say not to touch but to raise their wages at this point. That should be your suggestion. And in that sense, I can only say, we'll support these measures, but this won't be enough either. We will propose stronger measures through our legal package. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180652	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180653	We are going to the 6th debate, a Club of Representatives of the Bridge of Independent Lists, respected colleague Bozo Petrov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180654	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs. In recent weeks, we have debated many aspects of this crisis, which has been caused by an epidemic of coronary viruses, most of all in health and economic aspects, and that's good. But of course, there are still certain things that have not been solved. After some unscheduled measures have been taken, there are still whole groups of citizens who have not remained protected by all these measures that have been taken. First of all, they're citizens with loans we're looking for a no-interest moratorium during the duration of the epidemic. They are also completed and blocked citizens for whom we are asking for a moratorium to be applied because if others have the right to progress, then they too have the right to rest. Also, there are the unemployed who have lost their jobs because unfortunately the government has been waiting, wasting time with the right measures that they have come up with, they have run out of work. Also, there are seasons that have been waiting for quite a number of months to be employed now in a season that obviously will not be. I believe that all these groups and many other groups should be helped in at least the same way as helping the economy. There are also our farmers who need to be told that they will be able to do spring work in agriculture, in which way they will come into labour, how they will place their products. So far, European countries have already launched extensive programmes to encourage the unemployed, just for agricultural seasonal work. Our country's waiting. I just don't know what's waiting. Also, the crisis has taught us a lot of things. I think the crisis has finally shown all the senselessness of a territorial structure with 500 or more municipalities, the county at the moment when the electronic system for issuing e-passes in 2 to 3 days gives you half a million passes then actually shows you the senselessness of such a system. Why are they betraying? Well, because some local self-governments don't even fill your basic functions for people's lives. In them you do not even find any serious store, no ATM, so of course you will need to look for e-passes, but it will be an interesting period after this, it will be an excellent basis for all of this information that we have received with the e-prompt issue can be an excellent basis for an analysis of all unnecessary local self-government. Also, the epidemic has shown pains of bureaucracy, suddenly within a few days, a few weeks no more walking from the counter to the counter, no more wearing paper straps, no more asking for seals, no more need. Now it's enough to send a literal e-mail and fill out some quick app, all solved. And it all happens during the time that for 50% of government officials at home, it works with reduced intensity or it doesn't work at all. So it will also be a very good basis for solving red tape problems when the crisis is over. But in the end, I have to say that this crisis will be a real test of trust for the state and state institutions, a trust test by citizens. Citizens' confidence in state institutions hasn't been on high-level lately, but this crisis can help the state turn these trends around. And all of this depends on how the state institutions will deal with this crisis as much as they will be able to adapt to the citizens, their needs. And we can see that the health care system works well and can be adapted, the local self-government system is not, but they have already done some damage to the citizens' confidence in the state institutions because they have tried to abuse this crisis so that they can push through their aspirations for comprehensive citizen supervision. I appeal to you not to do that. This is exactly the time in which Croatia can show that through democratic institutions we can fight the crisis and deal with its consequences. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180655	I just have to wait, how long has it been, 26, 27, but there is no one here, 10, 10, who is registered, Bulj is there, Glasnović, Panenić is gone, here is Glasnović, Kajtaz, we can get started. Here, colleagues, we move forward with the work, followed by the presentation of the position. The first presentation of the position will take place on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists of Independent Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180656	Thank you very much. My colleagues here today you are here in the assembly we have had the opportunity to vote on the law, on amendments to the Law on Agricultural Land which I have proposed to prevent the sale of agricultural land to foreign, legal and physical persons. At this time when agriculture is seen as important and important and that Croatia is not self-sufficient in agricultural production. You did not support this proposal by the majority of HDZ and its partners because I find it embarrassing if other EU members could do so, for example. Hungary to protect the agricultural land that it is a national interest at this point in time I express my minimal disfavor with such a policy towards a key resource, and this is the agricultural land I call upon once again must be modeled and planted immediately at this time. And I expect these measures from the local, state level because of what the state level has lost in all of this, and the coronary crisis has shown that we have had a catastrophic agricultural policy and policy towards the Croatian village. So once again I call all, let us destroy what is our private, start me from ourselves and what is stately divide to the Croatian peasant is 2/3 of Croatia empty. I would say the same thing here, here we are bringing a number of measures to the assembly today, and we are facing the time of Easter of the greatest Christian holiday in and so is the Republic of Croatia. Here we see that the markets are still closed, and I expect it to open that we can sell our agricultural products at this time, but what we see is that trade chains are allowed to sell foreign import goods, we see that there's going to be an attempt to get through that. to pass the laws that open the way to the EUR at this time of the crown crisis which is also shameful, but the key to me is, here we have today the assembly, we are 151, we are separated, we are sticking to the measure, and here in Croatia Easter is the greatest holiday Christian holiday, which our people celebrate with tradition as their greatest holiday and among other things at this time would be good, if we can go to the trade chains, I call on bishops, I call on all those who can influence at this time to enable or in the spaces within the church by sticking to the measure as we do here and outside of this church facilities, in front of the churches in the courtyards. To enable believers to observe all the measures in this biggest holiday in Croatia, to allow the believers to attend the Holy Masses on this holiday. If we can be here in the assembly, if we can be in the trade chains, if we can think that the tribal would be a measure and to ensure, of course, this distance, the physical distance.../incomprehensible/... measure because at the moment that we are leaving our houses, although the assembly should continue to bring more measures, mainly measures to postpone the commission and the loan, very important to our citizens, however we will leave without voting. And once again here for this Easter would triangulate the peace of these people, and not after Easter to continue with the measures where people would now have to pay their bills, they had to pay their loans, they had to secure those measures. And once again, wherever foreign goods, trade chains sell, food products, can be entered, can be bought although markets are still closed, I expect that, it has announced, is announced from headquarters that they will open them, people are our farmers and domestic products are these main fruits, vegetables, what is grown at this moment from the strawberries of Vrgorački and other products, dairy products are, can't stop, it needs to be sold, open the trade chains, this if the open trade chains open the markets, of course I wish everyone a happy Easter, and most of all I call on our competent authorities to make it possible, if we can hold here a meeting to keep the believers Let them be holy Masses. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180657	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180658	Here we go, now we're going to go to free speech. The first is the Club of Representatives of the Bridge of Independent Lists, respected counterpart Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180659	Thank you very much. Here I would speak to my fellow citizens, my Split-Dalmatia County, but also to the entire people of Croatia to say what Split, County means here, and mainly Split-Dalmatia County, which is essentially an earl factory today when the whole of Croatia, the entire Split-Dalmatia County is in the bunker. Which respects the measures of experts on COVID in the same Split-Dalmatia County enters the COVID virus where it should not enter, of course with the arrests placed by Ante Sanader under, i.e. Secretary, one of the main people of Andrej Plenkovic, who was appointed after losing his election to the mayor of Omis. Of course, with the assistance of Boban, who all-in support of him because for years I've been looking for a county councilman, the president of the MOST Club, so that this man can't be trusted and that this man can't be removed from the post of boss, i.e. Director of the House for the Elderly and Powerless in Split. And right where we don't feel sorry for each other, while we're all in the bunker, we get hit naked in extensions, with the help of Ante Sanader who's been keeping this quiet all along and the current mayor of Boban. This is proof that the counties are the largest brakes in the development of the Republic of Croatia. And it's time for this assembly now at the end of this term to do the right thing and lift the county. Since the county was founded, only 100 000 people have moved from the Dalmatian mountain. And today, when we defend ourselves against the coronary virus, right where we've placed the earring, the lives and health of our people are at risk, unfortunately some of them have already died, home-protectors for the elderly and impossible. And not only did they endanger homes for the elderly and the powerless but they also threatened the center for the accommodation of adults in the center of Juraj Bonaci and the protégé, because the workers from that home have now been sent to help the homes of the elderly and the powerless in Biokovak and Vukovar, in the streets of Vukovar, Split, to the nursing home. And now these people, our protégés who are 100% disabled, who have autism, theirs, 24 days at 7 days per day, are constantly protected by two people, a carer and a medical technician. The lives of these people in health institutions are now at risk. What is the minister of social care doing? Absolutely nothing. While at the same time holding press in Split and calling the people, mainly Mayor Boban in uniform as a hero invites people to follow measures, he brought the virus, he, directly upon his arrest. And here, it's not just Mr. Ivan Scissor's question. Here is the question of the responsibility of Ante Sanader, a colleague of Bačić, Ante Sanader who did not put professional people, who did not place professional people in a nursing home, while all of us, a colleague of Bačić, were in isolation, while medical staff risked their lives, poorly equipped without protective means, at the same time these people brought the coronaryvirus i.e. They stuck us in extensions in the 95th minute, same people. That's why this assembly has to end now, we have to bring it, we have to lift the county, they're unnecessary. This is the cry of all people, not only of this Dalmatian Zagora and Split-Dalmatia County, but of the entire Republic of Croatia, let us take these chains off ourselves, free ourselves from local self-government, free ourselves from these Pharaohs, free ourselves from these kingdoms that serve only to entangle, maintain power, and see what they have done to us. So I urge the responsible, Bobana, Sanader, that they resign if they don't have the courage already. resign to Scissor. [[Intruder: Time]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180660	We interrupt for a moment the debate on this law in order to allow for the presentation of a position on behalf of representatives clubs and independent representatives. The first is Mrs Sonja Cikotic, who will speak on behalf of the Most Independent Lists. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180661	Vice President of HS, thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Today I will talk about the situation that is currently in Croatia, what Croatia will be like tomorrow after implementing all these measures and insufficient their effectiveness, insufficient their intensity or insufficient coverage of certain groups of citizens. I will say that again and here I will thank all the nurses, all the technicians, all the cashiers and cashiers who work hard in this crisis and go to their jobs every day. This extraordinary situation should force us all to solidarity and unity and no one should be left alone. All should create this chain of solidarity between citizens, and the measures proposed by the Government and we opposition MPs should certainly ensure that no new layer of poor, new layer of dissuaded citizens is created that will find it difficult or in no way be able to reconcile their life needs after the end of the crown crisis. Today's agenda is also the Act on stopping the implementation of the financial assets implemented by FINA, and I asked what about those funds that are being implemented by HZMO, what about those tasks that employers are carrying out? We have a delay again, we will have two measures that will arrive late, completed, blocked citizens today hard to live, as well as their children. Today, according to the Ombudsman's report for children, 300,000 people in Croatia are in poverty and on the poverty line, and after this crisis, I fear that the number will be growing. On a daily basis, I am approached by mothers who are at home with children who use parental leave whose parental leave expires or has already expired and have to return to their jobs, who have no one to trust their children with care and care for, to keep them safe because we know kindergartens are closed, schools are closed, how those who are unemployed actually start looking for a job in this situation and how actually those who have to go back to work, how to actually take care of children and to whom to trust them. I also have to say that the number of enquiries come from entrepreneurs who have, meaning legal persons who use certain measures for liquidity, but are threatening to do so because they haven't worked here in a month and a half, they have debtors on their personal names. Why do we not propose that, in certain measures and in the case of legal persons, the funds it provides, which are available for liquidity, should certainly be used and directed to one part of the debts towards suppliers, as well as maintaining the current liquidity of the company. I call on the Government to, as it constantly advocates solidarity and unity, make a step in the form of a legal solution to the public sector, those who live well in one of the poorest members of the EU, who have large salaries and who have long been irreplaceable managers of various agencies, that they are now limited to receiving because we must all be solid, and I call on citizens to continue a series with all the irreplaceable managers who today receive 30 and 40 thousand kuna net wages and that it is not enough to invite them only to solidarity, but it is necessary to take much more measures and not to allow through these legal measures that are being taken today in the Croatian Assembly, to allow individual castings of wealth. So, the wealth of individuals, so that no one would use this situation again to come out with the prey. I must also say that over 300,000 people in Croatia are being blocked. We're interested in their lives, we're interested in how they're doing their directing and how they're actually going to get out of this crisis even poorer and whether they're going to feel these long-term consequences much, much longer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180662	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180663	The next presentation of the position on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists Bridge, the distinguished representative Sonja Cikotic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180664	Dear colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament. I'd like to talk today about a few issues that they're dealing with and citizens are talking to me every day. One thing is executions and blockades. Today, a bill has been passed that will provide 3+3 moratories for those citizens whose performance is carried out over money, but by FINA. Those to whom the HZMO and those to whom the employer is carrying out, shall not be subject to this legislative proposal. Also, a number of other laws have been passed that have come to this assembly. The parliamentary laws that come from opposition parties have not yet come in part. I have women who have to work every day, so they work on the professions that the Civilian headquarters has allowed to perform regularly. The school is done by way of a distance. These women today are more than ever discriminated against at work because many employers don’t actually realize that they have no one to trust, or their children to be guarded. We know that women in Croatian society are traditionally nursed, that they often work on a specific, work seasonally, work for lower incomes, and that consequently they progress less in their careers. Today these women, these mothers can't be protected in enough ways in the labour market, and that's what I want to point out. In these times of crisis, no one should be left alone and solidarity should be our first priority. After this crisis, we must not allow the creation of a new layer of poor citizens, and I hear from the ruling ranks that there was not enough time, that there is not enough time, that certain laws cannot be done quickly, that would certainly help many parts of the citizens, because I believe that, in addition to the Law on the suspending of funds and the implementation of funds over money, surely it should be found immediately and the Executive Law so that all citizens who are in this situation have had the tasks, that they have been blocked, had equal rights and received the meaning of their full pensions and their full salaries because they are also in this extraordinary situation and they still cannot finance everything they need and they are directly affected. The signs of workers have been affected, workers also appear, are concerned about their jobs. They are concerned about whether there will be a tourist season at all and whether and in what way those who should have actually worked the season will be invited. I must mention when the Law on the financing of political activities, election promotions and the referendum was held, we must remember that it was passed for a few days, that a marathon session was held and that when it was in favour of those political supporters of the same, that the law was voted and passed and published in the People's Journal in just one day. I hear and read from the newspapers as the minister of the administration says, so it's not us who will say that and that community should exist, that and that community should be. And who else should know this than the secretary of the administration? Or would the management minister rather address the problems and difficulties of the tourism sector, problems and difficulties of the tourist season, would he rather be a tourism minister? I'm actually amazed by the fact that the state has come out with some subsidies to workers, to employers, but it's not going away. They went into debt, and in fact the same bureaucratic territorial structure, which has been warned for years, not sustainable, not effective, not effective for citizens, not for fiscal cash registers, they simply deafen themselves. I call on the government to move on, to reform the public administration, to reform the territorial structure because surely, not only would it be financially effective, it would be actually effective for the lives of citizens because some things would be done effectively and some processes would be shorter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180665	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180666	Now we move to a united debate, forgive me, I am already in a hurry, now of course we will go to the usual presentation on behalf of the club of representatives and the first on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists will speak to the respected representative Bozo Petrov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180667	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs. I'm going to talk today about two concepts in the spirit of this anniversary that Mr Reiner has just mentioned, the spirit of democracy in the first multilateral elections, I'm going to talk about two concepts of importance, the concept of rule of law and the concept of legal certainty. In developed democratic societies such as Germany and Switzerland, these concepts should not be overly debated, they are self-conceived. Their citizens take as a notorious fact that the laws are precise and clearly written and, on the other hand, that the state, state institutions, especially the state-run repressive apparatus will treat all citizens equally, act equally that they are all equal under the law. On the other hand, I don't think we need to spend too many words to conclude that Croatian citizens have somewhat different experience with this concept of rule of law. And a typical case of the Croatian concept of rule of law took place the other day when the inspectors of the State Inspectorate entered the catering facilities, discovered alleged illegalities, closed down the catering facilities and beat them to death with a serious financial penalty. I think that this example of the State Inspectorate's conduct shows two important things, the first important thing that citizens need to know is that this government and these state institutions have no intention of making any serious changes after the epidemic has passed and that all these big stories such as changing the paradigm and similar are a cheap delusion that will last until the moment until parliamentary elections pass, and after the parliamentary elections have passed, everything will go back to the way it was. Once again, you will need paper carioles, printing, printing, and on the other hand, those who are trying to earn their bread will choke and it will choke them in silence. On the other hand, no other important lesson was learned that should have been taught about the rule of law. I will say that HS has given power to headquarters that in moments like these have the opportunity to edit how certain facilities, catering facilities will function. I'll repeat, HS has given authority. They did not give authority to the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, the tourist community, public health institutions, and they all now appear and interpret the headquarters's decisions further. Why? Why do they answer, why do they need to interpret it? When the headquarters makes certain measures, they are published in the National Journal, they are published in order to be available to all and these decisions should be clear and accurate. There must be no further interpretations, and that is exactly where it was wrong, a measure which was not clear enough, was not precise enough, so everyone else appears now, should give additional interpretations. But it's not right. And precisely because of that mistake, those in a crisis like this are trying to fight and find bread for their employees. Legal uncertainty was created, a violation of the rule of law, and the price was paid by Croatian hosts. I think this is a typical case of the Croatian version of the rule of law and a reminder to the citizens. Dear citizens, nothing will change in this story. Changes only happen in the election.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180668	Thank you very much. Now it's in front of the HNS Club, Mr. Chury, he's gone. And now in front of the Most independent lists Mr. Bulj will have his own show, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180669	Dear citizens, colleagues and colleagues. In the Republic of Croatia this crisis has exposed all the bad policies, this crisis has shown that from the native Croatian authorities in essence have now discovered this jubo under which they hid in their farces, in their fogs, and wherever we look we see these smoke curtains that they were, we just have to say not even smoke curtains but soaps, soap balloons. I would, too, and we always stress that, and in particular from rural areas, I would say that everything that has not been done and what has been warned for years and what has been forgotten, and in fact in rural areas, hope has been extinguished, means simply the switch has been targeted to suit mainly certain lobbys, to deceive people under these lights and, of course, through a huge media promotion. As far as agriculture itself is concerned, agriculture is the most important branch, food is one of the most important branches of all others, but food is the basis of life, water and energy. All three things in the Republic of Croatia there are both possibilities and resources and potentials, however, the fact that when we look at Croatian agriculture only this unprocessed land and 700,000 hectares when we look at 400,000 state land and that 20 times in fact the Agricultural Land Act was passed 2 years ago, of 400,000 m2 and 1% is not divided agricultural land. I gave in the procedure the Emergency Law on Amendments, the amendment of the Law on Agricultural Land to finally divide the land to Croatian peasants, Croatian OPGs and to finally start processing. It's not accepted. Of course the problem of public administration, i.e. the problem of the operation of local, county and state authorities is visible. It is visible for several reasons because it has now come out that the county is unnecessary, the tribune to shut them down. Even though anyone has a chance, this assembly has a chance. All that was good and somewhat while, what was organized was destroyed, health homes were literally, literally and health services were literally not halved, but health services were literally destroyed, literally. And the coronary crisis has shown how important these homes of health, the emergency aids that were organized, but nobody cares. What's the big deal? It is important that the counties have health homes under their control and that these same counties kill officials inside the health homes, so Petric would like it, is now instead of Raja, Raja was his advisor, now he's a consultant, and he's destroyed everything. Six months of women waiting in my Cetina region to enroll in the UZV breast, and that day, once in six months, it's a row, suffocating in rows. So let's get rid of the stationary, and let's get rid of Bacic's birthplace, and come to the alka, who's going to race the alka. I mean, it just didn't work out well from that perspective, and that's the demographic downturn, that's the demographic downturn that's the worst. And in the end, I would just say, the crown crisis has opened our eyes but also hope that it can be different and it must be different, that the insults I have received, that it is better that Zagora did not give birth to you, the shepherds and so, I am proud of these insults because I come, I am a peasant and I am ears in politics precisely because of these decorated figures that have destroyed the Croatian state. Finally, he would look back, and today I am, and yesterday I am on the basis of the Croatian state, following a statement to arrest, locate, transfer, deliver, Vladimir Seks, following a statement by Nenad Stazic that 45 years had never ended, that '45. The winners did not finish their job that the tribal had yet to kill the Croats, after a statement after 2017, where the cartoonist coalition of Andrej Plenkovic, Vrdoljak and Pupovac took down the plate of 11-story heroes and yesterday' statements by Zoran Milanovic about this crisis when we should be complex and together to take down the board and throw it in the trash is extremely sad, embarrassing, beneath each level and this, and this act continued the politics of Kolinda Grabar Kitarović, Vladimir Seks, Andrej Plenkovic and all those who mocked each other. with victims for pre-election purposes. [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180670	The next club of MPs is that bridge of independent lists on behalf of which the respected representative Miro Bulj will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180671	Respected citizens, respected colleagues and colleagues. The Coronavirus has shown everything, i.e. Opened up, exposed the Jug from the bad policies that destroyed what was important for self-sufficiency and it's a shame that the Republic of Croatia, again, is doing nothing, mainly the Ministry of Agriculture, on unprocessed land owned by a country of 700 thousand hectares of agricultural land. 400 is owned by the Republic of Croatia. The agricultural land law has been passed 20 times. 20. The last time was two years ago during Tolusic, the minister is here, now Minister Vukkovic, not even 1% of the agricultural land has been allocated at this time. If this policy continues, if this pandemic crisis continues, whether we will be, not only self-sufficient, whether we will have enough food, whether or not the voice of unprocessed surfaces will prevail, now that it should be the most in the seed. There is also corruption in agriculture has never again been invested in incentives for farmers, and we have never had less production, never more imports. At EUR 3 billion, we import, import food products. Of which most pork and frozen pasta, of which means cereals, and we have Slavonia. Of the silos that have been robbed for 30 years full of grain, nothing has been done to date. This ministry, which was to develop agriculture, which was to be invested in the village and peasants, collapsed like geese in the fog, not all of them, because it was determined exclusively for lobbys and pests of imports within the ministry and it is surprising that I gave more than a month, a month's proposal in the emergency procedure, to divide the land to the Croatian peasant, the Croatian farmer that he had absolutely not come into the debate. That would move the mayors away in my proposal, and their signature should be given, means simply move them away if the programme does not work for the assignment of agricultural land, for local self-government, but in which area the land is located, but they must at the same time give the mayor to sign it. Of course, the mayors don't sign, especially where local leaders aren't, they don't have their party card. It's our first time out of the county. And here I would send a message that this assembly has a chance, now the pandemic has shown that the counties are excess. We have to lift the counties, I'm running for mayor of Split-Dalmatia County, I entered the second round, gets the most votes, my main motto is to be the last mayor, let's stop the county. They're blocking the development of agriculture. Only in my county is the Sinj field not irrigated. What's the county for? And the concessions, here is Minister Bosnjakovic, at the time he was a representative, you remember the concession on Bol, on Brac, you remember how to manage the maritime goods, it's all in the hands of the mayors who are the Pharaohs. They're brakes. We need to really decentralisation the Republic of Croatia, and then agriculture and livestock will develop, is who knows best what is going on in local areas, know of course local leaders and people living in that place, and not today the mayors and the mayors have to be exclusively, I guarantee it and in our club there were such simple ones they had to play as the mayor tells them, they left the club because it's unwanted to be in the MOST Club because they won't achieve anything for their local units. They must be the run of the mayor, the local leaders, my men and these mayors, those Pharaohs rule. They've destroyed agriculture, Minister Vukkovic is doing nothing, and she doesn't care, I've made a bill to prescribe it, and those local leaders who don't share the land, the local leader, so that's what we have, I mean, it's a disaster. What if it rules that no more imports, if the states close, if this crisis lasts, what then? Minister, what's it gonna be? So let's buy our own homework, process our own ories, and finally be self-sufficient, finally, and destroy the import vermin within the ministries. And that's Minister Vukkovic's silence. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180672	Thank you, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180673	Now we move on to free speech. The first is the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists Bridge, the esteemed colleague of Nikola Grmoy, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180674	Thank you. Dear people, respected citizens. In the sea of health problems due to an epidemic of coronaryvirus, we are increasingly facing both the economic and other social aspects of this crisis, which could, in all likelihood, last for a longer period of time. We already know that the economic consequences of the crisis will be unimaginable. Data and estimates coming from the world's leading economies, those who are the engine of the world economy are at least worrying. The German government forecasts a decline in German GDP of over 6%, and unemployment in the United States has reached historic peaks in the 1930s. In numbers only over 25 million people have been out there for the past month. By observing these unreal figures, we have to ask ourselves how all of this will reflect on the Croatian small and open economy, which according to its relative strength and structure is nowhere near the world's top. After all, the consequences of the crisis will most reflect on those who are last in the chain of the economy, but also on which the economy is at the same time resting, which are workers. The 2008 crisis experience for us in Croatia, but also throughout Europe, has shown that the most vulnerable young workers, up to 30 or 35 years of life, are on the labour market. Remember, the recession caused by the 2008 financial crisis has caused youth unemployment, which has crossed over 50% in some EU countries over the years. After the unemployment of young people at the very top, unfortunately, with Greece and some other countries we recorded the unemployment rate of young people at least over 30%. The long-term unemployment of young workers, the imperceptibility, the inability to progress in wages, low wages, insecure jobs, the seasonality of jobs performed by both income instability, credit inability, but also other injustices, we know what led to the departure of our people from Croatia to Germany, Ireland and other countries. We need to be smarter this time. The first data on the unemployment of young workers in the more developed Western economies suggests that their unemployment in the circumstances of the coronary virus epidemic grows 4-5 times faster than the unemployment of older generations of workers and I from this place appeal to the government that we respond quickly and resolutely to young people who have recently entered the world of work, for those who will seek their first job in both this and in the coming years, we must have a plan and offer them a future and perspective in Croatia. The bridge will therefore offer young people a vision of their future and that is why we are constantly proposing new measures to the government, we have proposed a set of economic laws to mitigate the consequences of this crisis. Also, we were looking for more in March moratorium on performances and on loans. You know what happened? While Slovenia immediately brought the moratorium to its conclusion, our government is only doing so now, we are discussing it here at HS today. I'm asking a question here for all of you, is it possible that the government of the Republic of Croatia is calculating with the lives of our citizens? Why do I say that? If measures had been taken in March for 3 months, by the time the elections were scheduled in July, those measures would have been over, but they are now bringing these measures to the polls, and after the election, who lives, who dies. It's a message from the rulings, we've been looking for a moratorium on top means all this year, a moratorium on loans and interest that the government doesn't want to bring, throughout this year, we've also made a legislative proposal. And also, I'm telling the government, now is the time for reform. We are the only political option that has translated the territorial transformation into the legal proposal in the procedure, the reduction of numbers means units of local self-government, the reduction of the number of politicians and officials. Ruler, it's time for a change.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180675	Thank you. We are now going to a second debate, Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists of Honored Fellow Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180677	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens. The coronary crisis has opened everyone's eyes. She opened her eyes and it's visible about the county, whether the counties are needed, whether a new reconstruction is needed. Now, even those blinds who saw from the party corners the needs of the county are evident that the counties are the key and the main vermin of the development of the Republic of Croatia. In this crown crisis in my Dalmatia when Minister Beros and the headquarters called us to the bunker, when they called us to stick to social distances, to stick to measures, when the catering facilities were closed, when it was all closed, the people followed, but as I said now I'm going to repeat, at the 95th minute they got us where there was no virus, and that's in the home for the elderly and the powerless. And who got us into this? Just the one he advocated, protected, his chief mentor, Ante Sanader, while he was mayor, now head man Andrej Plenkovic's right-hand man and Blaženko Boban Mayor. The director said that for 10 days they had a fever older and powerless and that only when it was escalated were they called to check it out, to test the protégés. 17 dead. We've got the infected down here today. Yesterday 5th in the Split-Dalmatia County of the Dead, every day getting worse and worse news because of a man who has not done his job and says Minister Beroš after released statements, released analyses, released reports, said the virus is guilty. Countys are brakes of development, the county is not what this government is calling for where power is decentralised from the state level. No, they're a flow water heater where money is given from decentralised healthcare funds, and we know what they did from health services to literally women in my Dalmatian Zagora in that county waiting in line to enroll in UZV breasts, many do not welcome, die, not wait to be examined. I've had a number, I haven't been a parliamentary representative for shutting down in Sinj and the stationers and the radiology and the x-rays and poor emergency aids, and not that people, people who work are great, but lack of people and care. But that money that's being decentralized he stays in the county's entourages and it's the main brake of development. Since the county, I repeat, founded from Dalmatian Zagora from Krka to Neretva has evicted 100,000 people. The greater damage was done by all the occupiers of the Ottoman Empire, so everyone here who has passed from the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, from fascists, Nazis, communists, the greater pests they have done. Imagine the power these mayors have for the Pharaohs that because of them and because of the law that allowed them, we have no irrigation, no key fields of our fields, and therefore we have 800,000 hectares of unprocessed agricultural land, there is no irrigated Sinjsko polje, Petrovo polje. So stop, is it normal in the 21st century when we have billions available from eu funds? A key development project such as verticals, circuits on the highway of the Cetina, the Drinjska, the Knin area I have proposed has not been done, and waste management and environmental conservation that I do not speak. Only the harmful projects of Lečevica that the damage will do, what are the pests and how much money they have taken is a disaster, only to entangle. This meeting had a chance, he didn't meet it, I'm sorry if it mattered, he didn't shut down the county. So let's shut down the county.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180678	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180679	Now it's Mr. Miro Bulj's turn to present the position of the Representatives' Club of the Independent Lists Bridge, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180680	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, here I will only briefly at what my colleague Milosevic said, that HS must accept what we all citizens, the Republic of Croatia, which is what the Council of Europe does. The European Parliament also says in the declaration, condemn all totalitarian regimes, fascist, Nazi and communist and bow down to all victims. But I will never accept the labelling of the Croatian people in 2020, both the Ustasha and the Nazi and those who do not allow the rights of anyone. Any minority and any group, and especially compare insigns from the Homeland War with any regime from the past from II. svt. The war, either the Ustasha or any other, and I will not accept it as a man and as a Croatian defender. Because people under the insignations of HOS, who have accepted the government of Ivica Racan, and this fellow Milosevic knows that the Association of Croatian HOS Majors has been accepted by Ivica Racan, I repeat, the Government, Minister Ivanisevic, therefore, you are not mortgaged to the Croatian people that the criminal and increase of fascism is. It's just a lie and I'll never accept it as a man. A man who highly respects all people, and of course between that, I think the entire Corps is a Croatian, political and all national minority. But that someone is going to mortgage the Croatian people that it's fascist 2020, I'm not going to let that happen. Of course, you forgot to tell a fellow Milosevic about Chetnik monuments like that. In Vukovar, a criminal of the Shocker and the others. But I wouldn't talk about it, I'd hold on to this if we as a people, as a political people with national minorities all called together on what Europe gives us and what I accept as a man, to condemn all crimes, all totalitarian regimes. Both communist and fascist and Nazi, and let's bow down to all the victims. The mortgage that the Croatian people are fascist and that they are putting them into World War II molds. Don't be angry, I don't accept because you're not real, you didn't talk about the people who defended with these insignations of the Croatian state which the tribune separates from the great Serbian Chetnic aggression. And I would now go back to what I thought. The Republic of Croatia has huge funds from the EU for agglomerations. In my Cetina region in my Sinj through the middle of Sinj an open sewerage that affects Cetina has not been solved much and septic pits so that it endangers both the river Cetina and the health of people and it is unfortunate that in the 21st century it is so, but the fact is that. And now that this project in 2023 was to be completed, i.e. When it was due to be carried out, the funds were insurance, the minister signed 302 million kuna last year, public works were called, but Croatian water, Sinj city, the mayor, the water pipeline made a wrong assessment. Instead of the estimated agglomerated works of Sinj which is a huge project, 213 million is the lowest bid that was called a few days ago and opened a few days ago... is twice as big as the estimated one. Instead of 213 million estimated the lowest bid is 418 million or 205 million more. And by 2023, if we don't finish the agglomeration project, our money's going down. From the European funds there is 220 million kuna, it is for Sinj, the Cetin region, Zagora and Croatia huge money. I call here on the competent ministry, Croatia's leadership to react urgently if this project and the funds from the eu funds do not smell like a disaster. And it is a shame that the project of agglomeration is failing in 2021 in the centre of the Dalmatian Zagor in Sinj, which is why I call on those who are painting themselves when they sign contracts from Minister Ćorić to the director of Croatian Waters, the Mayor of Sinja, the representative of the waterworks to finally solve this problem, is it going to be inconceivable if this problem is not solved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180681	Thank you, too. Now it is Mr. Ante Bacic who will speak for HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180683	Thank you, Vice President HS. My colleagues and colleagues. We're tracking all events related to the pandemic of the coronary virus and all the damage it's caused in the Republic of Croatia and so on to our education system. I think that in the last month, two days, we are only talking about primary and secondary education and our students whether they will attend school now, how they will end their school year, how grades will be concluded, what will happen to graduates, children in kindergarten and others. I think that in our media space, and in particular here in the Parliament and in the presentations of the Ministry of Science and Education itself, I have the feeling that we have ignored one major group in our society, which is 160,000 students of our universities in Croatia, universities, private universities, which among them is not at all involved in any form of online teaching, which I think is the obligation of all colleges to implement, but normally certain universities have about the staff and the very technique of the issue of teaching. So that a large number of our students are not participating in any form of academic education at this very moment in the last two months, and we know that the deadlines are approaching, but also the end of the academic year itself, and there is a lot of uncertainty, there are many questionnaires as to how it will end and how students themselves will not pass exams, but also some who are at the end or remain only graduate as they will graduate from their universities. I think it's a topic that we definitely need to open up in our and our media space, but also politically. And I am glad that the Croatian Student Assembly just last week sent a series of proposals and measures related to this topic that you would highlight here and pass by with you, and I think that we should definitely open a dialogue with the Croatian Student Assembly and all the measures that are implemented and proposals that are rational to accept them so that there are no problems or that something is not going on at the expense of the students. As far as teaching is concerned, the Croatian Student Assembly has proposed available literature for online learning, meaning that all textbooks and materials related to any passing of exams must be integrated through online libraries at the level of the Republic of Croatia and introduced into space to be available to all students. As for the digital competence of teaching staff, there the Croatian Student Assembly continued and suggested that amendments to the Law on Scientific Activity even this competence of digital teaching be entered into the conditions for the improvement of certain scientific titles in our universities. We need to open the dialogue now and consider whether it will be necessary to comply with their request, and this is about the extension of the academic year itself, the increase of the test deadlines when we see that now at the 4th month they were, i.e. There should have been extraordinary test deadlines that some colleges did not respect, so I believe that the ministry will jump in and give instructions that we must definitely extend the academic year itself, but also include additional test deadlines so that there are no unnecessary delays. As for the regulations on the conditions and method of exercising the right to cover the costs of student nutrition, we have seen that in certain student centres at the level of the Republic of Croatia and the cafeterias themselves there is a problem that not many students normally do not do the crown themselves could be present in restaurants themselves, but we are not allowed to carry out prepared food outside the restaurant where they could continue to consume the same in their homes and houses and we must already think lightly about ordering and paying online via that particular food, so we are also bringing to the point of making smart x-chip that will have a special chip and which is the future I think about at our universities and student centres because it will lead to the possibility of uncontact payment in student restaurants, but also other benefits that the smart ix-ica itself will have. Since my time is running out, I'm just going to point out that we need to support students in the proposal to step down from all cost cuts related to the development of student standards because I think that's the future we should definitely invest in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180684	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180685	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists MostA will now speak MP Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180686	Thank you very much. Here is before the speech and my intention to say something, dear colleague Ljubic, esteemed Vice-President, distinguished secretary of the Croatian Parliament and distinguished professional associates of the President of the Croatian Parliament. I think here is once again my condolences to the family of the dead Croatian soldiers, the Croatian Air Force pilot who is a great loss for both the Croatian Armed Forces and the family and we can only say thanks for everything they have done and I expect the Croatian Air Force to overcome these difficult moments and the families of the dead and, of course, I would just say, a sincere condolences to the family and let them rest in the peace of God. Here, it's 12 o'clock, and I'm sorry to tell anyone but you, so don't be angry with the Vice President, the honourable secretary-general and this professional associate and associate of the Croatian President of the Parliament, it's hard to talk to you today in my Split-Dalmatia County, of course I'm speaking to the citizens, in my Split-Dalmatia County, today at Brač, which is under the measures of the Civil Protection Crisis Centre, yesterday there are 9 new people. After what we've been protecting, we've been listening to the civilian headquarters, after we've kept our measures, physical distances, after everything we've done, after we've closed down the catering facilities, after all, it's just the islands that are closed and, by all accounts, that the man who's infected with the coronary virus has gone to our island of Brac, 14 000 people and now in the first test we have 9 newly infected, which is the absolute kicks of the Civil Protection Station and the Split-Dalmatia County headed by Commander Blaženko Boban. Of course I'll come back one more time, I don't judge anyone for death or this or that, but the fact is that misrepresentation was caused by a nursing home or something. in the House for the Elderly and Powerless in Split, it caused, the distinguished associates of the President of the Croatian Parliament, the death of 18 older and powerless residents, regardless of the statement which confirmed that the system had not worked, medical staff from the home for the elderly and the powerless, confirm that the director of Škaričić himself, who was brought in when he lost the mayor's seat, had nothing to do with the job, nor was he in the health profession, who admitted that several days, more protégés, had a temperature but had nothing to do with it. I think Mr. Berosa's statement is that the virus is guilty, in this case it's not, and I don't think it's a good thing that Boban, Sanader and A. Plenkovic are politicizing with the Civil Protection Staff and what they've done well, what needs to be said, in this way they've essentially politicized. And that's not good. And those who are guilty, that the extensions of the virus in the 95th minute, are in fact still politically protected and they have destroyed the Split-Dalmatia County system, and in terms of health services in the home of health, and in terms of hospitals, I have here proposed amendments for our Split hospital, no one accepted then and the health homes are simply staying more and more unserviceed due to poor management of the Split-Dalmatia County. That is why the national headquarters should make decisions responsible and replace the Civil Protection Centre of the Split-Dalmatia County because they will endanger them, because they are those who have compromised the health and safety of their people and the whole of Croatia mainly of the Split-Dalmatia County. Thank you very much, expert associates.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180687	Thank you. We will continue the session on Tuesday, 12 May with the points of the amendment and addition of the state budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2020 and the projections for 2021 and 2022 and the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the implementation of the Croatian State Budget for 2020, second reading, P.Z. No. 996. Have a nice weekend. SESSION Interrupted at 12.08 hours
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180688	We're going to free debates now. The first is the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists and Representative Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180689	Dear citizens, colleagues, colleagues and fellow MPs. The Republic of Croatia has had and has a great opportunity to achieve self-sufficiency in food production. That is why, in this mandate, I proposed to protect domestic food production and to stop people and residents from leaving the Republic of Croatia, I proposed a law banning GMOs, a law on the ban on glyphosate, an emergency award law of 700,000 hectares of unprocessed agricultural land to Croatian farmers and Croatian peasants. I also proposed, as an emergency measure, an emergency procedure banning the sale of agricultural land to foreigners. There are still 50 days left, less than 50 days to 1.7, then 7 years from the moratorium for the sale of agricultural land to foreigners. I'm asking the Minister of Agriculture here. I ask the question to the Croatian government, and also to our parliamentary representatives, what has been done to stop the sale of agricultural land of 1.7, meaning from, here in 50 days? The Croatian state has this resource which is the resource of the survival of these people and self-sufficiency no matter what this government of Prime Minister Plenkovic is all the time, and fellow MPs have said that these are my backdrops, that this is impossible. If Hungary can ban the sale of agricultural land to foreign legal and physical persons, I see no reason why the Croatian Government is silent about this problem? There are 50 days left for foreigners to buy land, plant GMOs, poison our country with glyphosates. I also gave the law on the ban on the use of glyphosate, but we absolutely do not know what the government has done. It's an emergency to stop the process. If Malta could, if others could. Many countries when they joined the EU, e.g. Poland, she was benefiting about, mainly about agriculture. The Republic of Croatia became the largest importer at the time of most investment in agriculture. We import 20 billion kunas of food products, of pork, of bakery products, we import everything, and our country is under the weeds. This crisis has made everyone naked. The Hungarians wouldn't let that happen. They even dare while we are in the EU, Orban to draw cards that the Republic of Hungary is under. Even Tajani, a friend of Andrej Plenkovic, says that Croatia's Dalmatia and Istria is Italian. Well, Mr. Fascist Tajani, that's not true. And they don't bother me that much. I'm tired and worried about the pain of the Croatian government. And the frequent photography of the Croatian government's leaders with such and these people while the Republic of Croatia is empty, 2/3 of the Republic of Croatia is empty. We have proposed in this term, because we believe that the Croatian country of fighting is worth it at the Most Club. We also suggested that the IGP protect our Adriatic, preserve our resources on the Adriatic, and this government did not accept it. In this term when there were parliamentary MPs who started these topics for the first time, and part of them accepted that we were sovereignly ruling our resources, because this crisis would show that the great, of Germany and beyond, did not care about the Croatian people. Everything we must do from 1.7. Our key resource with water, forest, energy, our Adriatic, agricultural land does not come into the hands of foreign owners, legal and physical persons. It is our sovereign Croatian right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180690	This concludes with the replicas and the next half hour will be positions on behalf of the club of representatives and independent representatives. In the name of the Bridge of Independent Lists, Mr. Grmoy will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180691	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, here, all day long here, journalists are asking about the day of the Parliament's disbandment. He is speculating about Monday and it is clear that the rulings have decided to go to the elections because there is no other way to retain power. So all these measures they've taken for our businessmen, for our citizens, will expire until 7. Between 9:00 p.m. and 9:00 p.m. who lives, who should go to elections before and after, use that most citizens won't be able to go to elections at all, because first, we'll have ranks in polling stations, second, part of the people are afraid to go to elections in fear of the coronary virus they've just produced. I personally think that this fear is exaggerating, but that's what you've been doing all along, you've locked the whole country in quarantine, you've dragged in fear amongst people, you've destroyed the economy, and now before you see the scale of the crisis that awaits us, you're going to capitalize on it. Your voting machine will go to the polls, waiting at the polls, at temperatures above 30 degrees Celsius in the 7th month. So, you've put everything together, but I think the people started to open their eyes, that they're clear on what this is all about, a big scam and what's actually embarrassing is that you haven't solved the key things. You didn't bring moratorium on loans and interest. In the city of Zagreb there is a huge robbery, 45 billion kuna is at stake, you can't agree on the division of the loot, it's a conflict of mob organisations. The question is who gets the money, whether they get the best men and the flocks or sponsors of certain political parties, and now they're waiting for it to happen means after the election. It is clear to everyone, and you will have to answer the question of how our citizens who have determined the measures of self-insulating by bio-terrorists overnight became those you want to see outside their homes, which you want to see in polling stations, and all that is enough to put on a mask that, by the way, you have said for a while that it is necessary, for a time, that it is unnecessary, and now it is necessary again. So, it's about one thing, I'd tell you a big con, but the citizens have exposed you, and it's going to show you, and it's going to show up at this election. Although you will do everything possible to make the Croatian voter's response as small as possible. You do not want to introduce the electronic or correspondence vote proposed by the Most. You didn't support any of the laws we gave here in the procedure. To save our economy, you refused to lift the parafiscal burdens. Why? Because your earrings are in the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, your earrings are in the Croatian tourist community, you're just burdening our people. Can you, my colleague Bačić, answer that in our Dubrovnik-Neretva County, in our Split-Dalmatia County, people who have apartments, and nothing of tourism is there, you will make them pay and a fee for HRT in each apartment, for every receiver. And there's nothing since the season. You've left them everything, you've destroyed tourism with such restrictive measures, and now that you need to go to elections, when it comes to your heads, then everything can. Then it's all a game. You have completely destroyed the Croatian economy, what will you do to save at least some of our tourism? Will you at least cancel the HRT fee for people who have apartments that won't be full this summer, and every month they'll have to pay you a subscription? You do not want to cancel membership for the Croatian Tourist Board, you do not want to cancel membership fee for HGK, you do not want to go out to meet our citizens at all. That's enough of that. We request that all of these measures we have proposed be adopted and that a moratorium be immediately brought to credit and interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180692	And now, in the end, Mr. Miro Bulj will be the position of the Club of Representatives of Independent Lists. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180693	Thank you very much. Here's the esteemed citizens. Now, at the end of this term, The end of this Parliament that was supposed to be the elections three years ago, however, unfortunately the trade coalition kept it with also numerous promises. These days, the government can celebrate with champagne in Split and a session two years ago 2018 where it promised Split-Dalmatia County the largest county of 2 billion kuna projects. These are projects that were promised where committees were created, teams, and otherwise those projects are when I list them, you'll see that they've already been opened several times in pre-election time. Dalmatia as we know is forgotten as our Slavonia, so rural areas 2/3 of Croatia are empty. That's what the Prime Minister promised. For the third time he gave Dračevac to the city of Split as state property, absolutely nothing moved. He promised 196,000 m2 in Zrnovnica land for apartments, zero kunas, garages in Split at 104 million kuna. He promised Dalmatia Zagora a transport connection, promised the Ravca-Drvenik tunnel that connects with the Vrgorac rear, Hercegovina our island Hvar, that would be essentially the coast, zero kuna. While the project lasts in 2005, Branko Bacic, along with Parliament Speaker Luka Bebić, opened the project. The fast road merger of the Sin and the Cetina landscape as the vessels of the housekeeping survival in these areas, 2016.When we were in collaboration part of the government was initiated procedure, so the chosen variant was chosen and since then stopped, invested zero kuna. Also Knin-Drniš connects the road of that remote area, only remember it at the time of the Storm on Victory Day, Sinj on the Day of the Sinj Alka and the Great Lady, Vrgorca for the Day of Vrgorjek prosciutto, Drniša on the Day of the Drniša prosciutto sweeps the tables of the people, and they expect their promises to keep. So the government in Dalmatia invested zero kuna, 0 peoples zero at the end of the term. Irrigation, the Sinjsko polje as we import 3 billion euros in agricultural food products and that's on the rise of the enormous, when we invest never more money in incentives, we've never imported again, we've never exported less. Sinjsko polje unsupervised, Petrovo polje in Drnis, Vrgorsko, Imotsko polje unsupply means from the investment of this government zero kuna. They made so many promises that when I come down to this Parliament, when I see the representatives of the government, I feel sick. How can these lights of the reflectors lie to that people, the people who have evicted, the people who have gone outside, half a million people, 6% of the GDP of these people who are coming back to Croatia today, and they have no place to go back. In this term, I have worked hard, and my colleagues propose a number of laws to protect and rule the sovereign national interests, protect our seas and an exclusive economic belt to ban GMOs and harmful food to protect domestic production, which I have given twice, a ban on harmful glyphosates. It is another 45 days until the end of the moratorium for the sale of agricultural land and I have allowed this law to prohibit the sale of agricultural land to foreign and legal natural persons, if the sea of Hungary can and we also have many other proposals and solutions. They absolutely didn't protect anything, except they made false promises.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180694	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180695	On behalf of the club MOST of independent lists, the presentation of the position of the esteemed representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180696	Dear citizens, we are at the end of the mandate and we have fought and sacrificed in freedom for the elections, for democracy so that we should all rejoice in the elections when we will all go before the people and when the people will say what they have to say, who will represent them here. The elections had to be three years ago when the commercial majority and the coins took over the management of the Republic of Croatia, which absolutely from what they had to do, did not do, but here is not the choice problem, today, tomorrow, whenever, the problem is when the National Civil Protection Centre is being politicized, when the ruling party wants to politicise it. It is incomprehensible to me that a man who fertilises his field, ornanica when he is forced to survive and in self-insulation is, is not in touch with anyone, he has to pay a fine of 8000 kuna and when a member of the national headquarters, the bodies in which people have trust, call for self-insulation, call for adherence, the Government, Mr Kopal and Bozinovic intend to track cell phones, do various applications without discussion in this House, take away human rights and freedoms, at 100 times says on election day those people who can put on a mask alone, do not matter what they are in self-insulation, go to a polling post, take a chemical, round and return chemical, it is naturally allowed and it is primarily allowed if you are a member of HDZ or SDP party, then leave. And there's the problem. The democratic election is what's normal. I was here among 12 parliamentary MPs when we didn't want to get ahead of ourselves and become chips of any kind and after a few months of regular elections, we went to extraordinary elections. And it's nothing in democracy. If this government had faith, then it would have secured faith in democratic processes, then they would have provided both HDZ and SDP with an electronic and correspondence vote. And we wouldn't have any problem. All people would have the right if it were digitized, the right to vote. Both in Croatia and in diaspora. It's not enabled. And of course those who, since this is the last break, that is. ... the possibility of making their position known on behalf of their club, those who have made that decision and who are responsible for the regularity of the election. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They're responsible. That every citizen of the Republic of Croatia has the right to go out and be secured at the polls. It's just that the problem, so most of us took that responsibility, everything else about the election, no problem about the MOST club, but we're personally happy about the election. To have the people choose their new representatives. It is much harder for me to accept that this crown crisis has exposed all the bad policies of the Croatian government in this term. When we have no higher GDP, we have never had more and more emigrated Croats who sent 6% of GDP into the budget of the Republic of Croatia, when it revealed what is with the self-sufficiency of our agricultural production, when we import more and more food products and never again invested in subsidies, when you did not have the courage not only to destroy our 800,000 ha of agricultural land and give it to our farmer, but from 1.7. And we import pomidores, I often mention them, while in my Sinj field there is no irrigation system because the deadline is up. Now that's the problem with this crisis. If the borders close, God forbid in the pandemic, we won't have a pomidor in three days if we're not from imports, and we have conditions for everything, and that's why I'm disappointed that you didn't accept these four years of proposals that I've been giving you. Thank you very much. Dear citizens, we are at the end of the mandate and we have fought and sacrificed in freedom for the elections, for democracy so that we should all rejoice in the elections when we will all go before the people and when the people will say what they have to say, who will represent them here. The elections had to be three years ago when the commercial majority and the coins took over the management of the Republic of Croatia, which absolutely from what they had to do, did not do, but here is not the choice problem, today, tomorrow, whenever, the problem is when the National Civil Protection Centre is being politicized, when the ruling party wants to politicise it. It is incomprehensible to me that a man who fertilises his field, ornanica when he is forced to survive and in self-insulation is, is not in touch with anyone, he has to pay a fine of 8000 kuna and when a member of the national headquarters, the bodies in which people have trust, call for self-insulation, call for adherence, the Government, Mr Kopal and Bozinovic intend to track cell phones, do various applications without discussion in this House, take away human rights and freedoms, at 100 times says on election day those people who can put on a mask alone, do not matter what they are in self-insulation, go to a polling post, take a chemical, round and return chemical, it is naturally allowed and it is primarily allowed if you are a member of HDZ or SDP party, then leave. And there's the problem. The democratic election is what's normal. I was here among 12 parliamentary MPs when we didn't want to get ahead of ourselves and become chips of any kind and after a few months of regular elections, we went to extraordinary elections. And it's nothing in democracy. If this government had faith, then it would have secured faith in democratic processes, then they would have provided both HDZ and SDP with an electronic and correspondence vote. And we wouldn't have any problem. All people would have the right if it were digitized, the right to vote. Both in Croatia and in diaspora. It's not enabled. And of course those who, since this is the last break, that is. ... the possibility of making their position known on behalf of their club, those who have made that decision and who are responsible for the regularity of the election. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They're responsible. That every citizen of the Republic of Croatia has the right to go out and be secured at the polls. It's just that the problem, so most of us took that responsibility, everything else about the election, no problem about the MOST club, but we're personally happy about the election. To have the people choose their new representatives. It is much harder for me to accept that this crown crisis has exposed all the bad policies of the Croatian government in this term. When we have no higher GDP, we have never had more and more emigrated Croats who sent 6% of GDP into the budget of the Republic of Croatia, when it revealed what is with the self-sufficiency of our agricultural production, when we import more and more food products and never again invested in subsidies, when you did not have the courage not only to destroy our 800,000 ha of agricultural land and give it to our farmer, but from 1.7. And we import pomidores, I often mention them, while in my Sinj field there is no irrigation system because the deadline is up. Now that's the problem with this crisis. If the borders close, God forbid in the pandemic, we won't have a pomidor in three days if we're not from imports, and we have conditions for everything, and that's why I'm disappointed that you didn't accept these four years of proposals that I've been giving you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180698	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180699	The next club of representatives is that of the Most Independent Lists on behalf of which the respected representative Miro Bulj will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180700	Dear people, dear colleagues and colleagues. Today, HS will disband and elections are the expression of democracy that I and my colleagues fought for in the Homeland War, Croatian defenders. I would especially like to thank my Most Representatives Club, who we fought together, for trying to change things because in Croatia without fighting for the people there is absolutely no movement, and this House is exactly the body. This must not be a body that will be someone's extended arm, the hand of a coin, the hand of a fold, the hand of personal interest. We need to talk here about what the people need and what they need and what they've led us here for. Thus, in 40 days, the moratorium expires for the sale of agricultural land, and it is unprocessed, unsettled as we chair the EU and while we could solve this problem, unfortunately none of the Government has done anything, either the prime minister or the minister. I have given here with my colleagues a number of laws regarding the protection of agricultural land, as far as national interests are concerned, the protection of our Adriatic's exclusive economic belt, without a rich village there is no rich Slavonia, which is why 2/3 of the RH is empty. Today when we break up, I ask the government what will happen after 6 months with workers, the minimums late, entrepreneurs say they can't pay their workers or minimals. At the end of the 6th month, the moratorium expires, what's behind, what's going to happen to the workers? What will happen to those people who are 6% of the GDP that we have evicted from outsiders who lost their jobs not by their own fault, but by the bad policies of Croatia driven them out. This policy, so this crown crisis has shown what Croatian people have led to politics. Croatian MPs, MPs, must exclusively fight for the people. And we fought in the Homeland War for a free and democratic Republic. I remind you colleagues and colleagues, my dear people, that in Split two years ago, there was a government meeting for Dalmatia where two billion kunas were promised to join the road towards the Chetino end, the Vrgorsko end, the iot end, the Drot end, the Sibenik end, know how much has been invested so far at the end of the government? Zero Kuna, zero kunas except for a promise that will now throw stone foundations down in Dalmatia's Zagora, Lica, which will be blizzarding under the Sibenik, Zadar hinterland. That's what I'm talking about. I have also proposed a number of laws, mainly to protect our food production, our agriculture, to ban GMOs from importing, transporting, trade, but only to prohibit this ban from preserving domestic production. Unfortunately, today we have 800,000 hectares of raw agricultural land. Only my Dalmatia has 200,000 hectares, to process this agricultural land could hurt and feed only Dalmatia 11 million kuna, while we import pomidores and other food products from Italy, Spain. Let them close the border for just two days, we won't have enough food products. That's why I feel obliged to thank the people who gave me the votes and my parliamentary representatives from MOST colleagues. We have tried and we have shown that we are no one's tokens and I call upon the people to vote for the people who will fight for them, and no demagogues that are exclusively in the given moments and only chips, and certainly not the people's representatives. The national representative whom the people feed and he is only obliged to answer to the Croatian people, not Brussels, not the prime minister, not anyone. Once again in the end, I'd like to thank our officers for putting up with us here for four years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180701	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180702	Mr. Nenad Stazic, it will be the position of the Club of Representatives of the SDP, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180703	... So the murders happen, they happen, and it's still going to happen, it's impossible to prevent. [[Specially enabled.]] [[/Intruder Radin: A microphone. Okay, she's fine now.]] But that murder that took place in Split four days ago must be deeply concerned. One 25-year-old young man killed three people. What came after that murder? The eruption of mass enthusiasm on social networks. He is celebrated as a brave man, a determined man who fights for justice, who has the courage to take justice into his own hands and 3 dealers forever removed from the street of Split. One of those killed 16 years ago, an eight-year-old girl was killed by a motorcycle. He ran away from the scene, and that's why he got, you know, three years in prison. This support is not only declarative, it collects and money to pay for his defense. All of this is one testimony to the deep and possibly irreversible sunflower of the Republic of Croatia. The institutions of the state have lost all credibility. You don't trust anyone, you don't trust the police, you don't trust the courts, you don't trust the government, you don't trust the Parliament, you don't trust the presidents of the Republic, in one word, you don't trust anyone. And how can they be trusted? Kalashnikov is bought as a commodity of broad consumption. When the Split police asked how this young man managed to get a Kalashnikov, they said, you know, the country came out of the war. Well, yeah, she got out of the war, but she got out of the war in '95. Sir, and we're in 2020, so what were they doing all those years? We are in a land where embarrassing examples become desirable examples. Prewar accordionists and central heating motifs are now oil magnets. Drug dealers, prominent inauguration officials, are now the rejected presidents. A terrorist supports her candidacy, and the prime minister is silent about it. People are desperate. What's left of them? Life in fear, silence, constant withdrawal from criminal powers or desperate taking justice into your own hands? Well, everyone in Split knew and knew who the drug dealers were, except for the police. They've been terrorised by Split for years, and the institutions are silent. Who should I blame? A fire with the killer's name coming out before the police? Who should be blamed, Bozinovica, who is not even trying to find out why the police didn't do their job in time. Whom to blame, Plenkovica, who answers everything once and for all the same lies, institutions are doing their job, and this government is successful. Whom to blame, Grabar – Kitarovic, whose best society has been criminals since the start of the mandate, is her loss of choice as proof that the people have had enough. Blame people on social networks who become nervous and classify themselves with the killer because they think it's better than Durats pushing crime and the misery of the state. The last is the time for those who have the power to make something, to stop, but listening to today's prime minister to whom honey and milk flow, who doesn't see blood flowing through the streets, that misery, that people sink into despair, can hardly expect anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180704	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, by whom? And Mr. Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180705	Thank you very much, then the breach of the Rules of Procedure, Art. 238nd fellow Stazic will not say that he said that '45. In Bleiburg, he didn't finish his job, and he also called for murder.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180706	Thank you very much for your opinion, but it's not an injury...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180707	I think we should all look in the mirror first, what we do and what we do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180708	Thank you very much for your opinion, thank you very much for your opinion, but it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, I won't give you any warning, but you know it's not a violation of the Rules of Procedure, it's a debate, discuss it whenever you want.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180709	The next club of MPs will be the SDP on behalf of which the respected representative Sabina Vosovac will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180710	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Here today, Minister Divjak remains Minister of Education and Science by decision of the Croatian Parliament. I don't trust anyone who knows politics a bit. Following political movements didn't surprise them too much. The minister is a product of the trade coalition, as she came to the post of minister, so today she is the minister and remains. As long as it's a trade coalition, there'll be ministers. There is one such handsome quote on social networks that has spread in recent days that says, this is one photograph of Prime Minister Plenkovic and the minister and says there is no love, we stay married because of children. So in this coalition, there is no mutual trust, there is no co-ordination, there is unfortunately no benefit for both the education system and the Croatian society, but there is a strong desire and strong interest in the preservation of the existing coalition. However, despite the fact that Minister Divjak remains a minister, I would today use this time to ask her on behalf of teachers, teachers, parents and children to receive better quality pills in this second wave of procurement, which will not have any cameras, which will be able to access digital content. I also ask her to start fighting for legality in the system of higher education and science and to put an end to the lawlessness that is happening on certain institutions in that segment. I would also ask her to pass the Law on Scientific Activity and Higher Education and the Quality Insurance Act, which needs to improve this system of higher education and science, and in her plan of normative activities, the Government finds it to be passed, that these laws will be passed in the last quarter of 2018, she is too late and should focus all her strength on the adoption of these two laws. The Law on Educational Inspection, which was to be passed at the end of 2019, is also of paramount importance for our teachers and teachers especially in the part where anonymous applications against teachers and teachers are very common. They expressed a lot of dissatisfaction at the very protest concerning the law, so let it be hasty, or when it is late with that law, to be passed in this last year of the term of office. The Law on Education and Education, I believe the Minister also knows that, which we brought to the Croatian Parliament a year ago, has brought a number of employment problems in Croatian schools. So by deciding through this law that each school determines its criteria for hiring teachers and teachers, as well as commissions that will deploy technological surpluses, not that it has weakened the impact of policies on school employment but has actually provided one mechanism for policy through specific criteria, allowing certain candidates to be employed under its law by those who are desirable and who are relevant to politics. I think that's something to deal with. It is now seen in these years that this law is extremely dangerous. The criteria need to be unified, not allowed to be adapted by everyone to candidates they want to hire, these are dangerous things. We should seek to depolitise in the employment system of educational workers, not politicisation and policy influence to strengthen what she has done with her law. What I sincerely hope is that our money will be spent more transparently, that they will give up setting up competitions for directors of management and advisors in the cabinet of ministers. We will closely monitor, she has conducted the tender, has not appointed directors and advisors, she has probably waited for this appeal to go through, but it is really challenging to choose the people who have been assistants so far to become directors of the administration and those people who will become her advisors in the cabinet. Just because we failed doesn't mean we were wrong, the opposition reminds me I will seek the recall of Minister Barisic, Minister Dalic, Minister Kuscevic, Tolusic, Maric and Žalac All of you here voted to stay, and in the end they had to leave. [[Thank you, thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180711	We're going to the 9th debate, the SDP Representatives Club, dear colleague Gordan Maras, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180712	Thank you, dear colleague and colleague, it's Wednesday, it's January 22, 2020. and rather than in his post in Stjepan Square, Radić, the mayor of the City of Zagreb, spends time on Zrinjevac answering the question of whether or not he feels guilty about one of the series of affairs in which he is involved and for which there are powerful indictments in the court and for which he should be held before Croatian courts and finally and before Croatian citizens whenever they are next. What we see in the past few days is that our justice system which is the cancer of the wounds, I would say, the whole of our society does not do things fast enough to do, so after 10 years, only a confirmed indictment in the City of Zagreb against also members of the City of Zagreb's Headship for damage to the city of 151 million kuna in the Krashograd affair, means the judiciary is on the one hand acting up to ordinary citizens, and to those powers that abuse citizens' trust as is evident in the City of Zagreb, the affairs last years, and even decades and so on the other hand, the question is why and why and until when will we tolerate such things as a society. It is certainly because the mayor Bandic has a large backdrop of HDZ and the unspeakable support of HDZ and Prime Minister Plenkovic both at the state and local level because if it were not for a long time we would have elections in the City of Zagreb and the mayor of Bandic would no longer be mayor, he is the only mayor because of what HDZ supports him. On the other hand, the question arises how our society works and I here are the public, and I would tell those who are following what is happening in our city, in our judicial bodies, I am giving one topic, ask how many people from USKOK and DORH have been employed in the City of Zagreb, to see how things work and how Mayor Bandić buys public influence and money defacto this slow process and in some way protection against persecution for intransparent and for me inadmissible management of the City of Zagreb. Let's see how many DORH people have changed employers to the City Administration in the City of Zagreb, and then some things will be clear to you, how much of this together is intertwined and how unfortunately these things work in the Republic of Zagreb and the City of Zagreb. And the last case where the unspeakable support of HDZ is seen is the case where 20 MPs in the City Assembly at the SDP initiative have submitted a proposal to the City Assembly to call an advisory referendum or local referendum of citizens of the City of Zagreb on changes and additions to the GUP where citizens would decide whether they want these changes of the GUP that push HDZ and Bandic to force through the City Assembly, which have received more than 30,000 objections against which the profession and all those who are dealing with planning space in the City of Zagreb, we gave the possibility to the Assembly to call and behold miracles, HDZ is not for that, they are still against it or are still not wise to declare and ask themselves what they will decide to do to the City Assembly themselves and when you see the HDZ vote in this assembly, which is why the mayor Bandic is still not to be the mayor of the city and his own interest in the state of the city. Of course, it will come to an end when the elections come because I no longer see in any film the possibility of Mayor Bandic getting a new mandate and with him HDZ in the city of Zagreb. My colleagues and colleagues, let us all ask ourselves why this situation is, which is why people feel wrong and why people are angry at this corruption and such management of the main The city of Republic of [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180713	The next club of MPs was supposed to be the Club of Croatian Sovereigns and Independent Representatives Zeljko Glasnović and Zlatko Hasanbegovic, but he is not here, so the next club will be the SDP on behalf of the respected representative Romana Jerkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180714	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, an example that clearly shows how things work in the Republic of Croatia and how dysfunctional state institutions and those who run them are, I have already spoken. I was talking about a typical Croatian story and how politics at all levels, starting from one local across the region to the state, can be deaf and blind to the interests and needs of its citizens, so that it can be a stepmother to those whose interests should be represented, defended and for whom it should be fought. I was talking about the Peljesac peninsula, about the town of House and Perna, which belongs to the municipality of Orebić. I was talking about the need to move the ferry port from the center of Orebić somewhere else and about the need to build a new ferry port. The new port should have been built long ago because the old one is not the place in the heart of Orebic, everyone knows it. Someone decided that the place for the new port is right on Perna, they say there is no better solution, well let's just say that it doesn't matter that Perna is one of the most beautiful parts of the southern side of the Peljesac peninsula and that we all consider it the Golden War, the Peljesna Golden War. It doesn't matter that people who live there use the only resources they have, which is the sea, it's the sun and it's the beautiful coast, it's the source of their income and their existence, that's how they feed their children, that's how they train them and take their tourism, you took their lives. Let's just say it doesn't matter that the Peljesko-Korčula Channel is famous in the world frameworks surfing on board and being there windsurfing and whating schools. Let's just say it doesn't matter that we have about 600 beds in our households today, several restaurants, hotels, camps and other catering facilities. Let's just say it doesn't matter that for 10 years the state has been doing nothing, but it allows young people to live there, to start their families, to be in charge of banks, to get a boost from the state from the European funds, to allow the development of tourism infrastructure, to allow construction. Let's just say it doesn't matter that the construction of a ferry port is planned within the Commodore tourist complex. So what now? Now, on Perna it is planned to build a ferry port in the length of 220 meters with 3 ramps, and it comes 6 meters from the houses where people live and rent tourists. Look, people living down there are fighting for their existence and their children's existence, they're left to the mercy of a ruthless policy that doesn't care about people's interests. They prayed, called for conversation, for dialogue, for agreement, not against development, not against ferry ports, they just ask questions and it's very logical. They ask why concreteize the 220 meters of beaches that we live on? Why come 6 meters from under our houses? Why do you need 3 ferry ramps? And I'm asking two more questions here publicly. Why doesn't he listen to them? And why won't anyone take them? In the meantime, beware of this, the Administrative Court in Split reached a verdict in favour of the Local Committee of the House, the Ministry of Environmental Protection, which sued them, claimed that there was no need to carry out an environmental impact assessment procedure. Is it possible that they did not know? Well, not that they knew, but they thought they'd get away with it. And more amazingly, in that same dispute that Kuciste's Local Committee won, and the ministry lost port administration and the Ministry of Environment lie and the planned port of Perna is more than 3,000 metres away from the old town of Korčula. Which is not true, it is 1,300 meters away, which is protected as a historical heritage, so the planned port on Perna falls into the contact zone of the historic part of the old town of Korčula. So it's not just about the existence of people living downstairs, but about the state tourist complex Commodore, but also about the irrevocable insult of the historical whole. All these people from the House are looking for is a change and an addition to the urban plan, asking them to sit at the table, to talk, to change the plan, to reduce the ferry port, not to be 3 ramps. What they're looking for isn't impossible, what they're looking for isn't crazy, what they're looking for is quite understandable and logical, they're fighting for their existence. I naively believed that I could help them bring sides of two to the negotiating table, I believed that I could also invite Minister Butkovic and Mr Branko Bačić, I asked them to sit down with them at the table, talk and agree. But unfortunately politics is something else, politicians are not gods to whom it is impossible Come, and unfortunately many behave like that. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180715	8th debate of SDP MPs, respected colleague Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180716	I thank the Honorable President of the Parliament. There was an outrageous, unprecedented pig scandal yesterday in Croatia. The Zagreb Centre for Social Care rejected the request of the same-sex couple Ivo Šego and Mladen Kožić for the adoption of the child. That was allowed by some guy named Tatjana Brozić Peric, the head of the center. She allowed herself this despite the judgment of the Administrative Court. The woman doesn't respect the court's decisions, she thinks she's above the court, she thinks she's above the law, and she allows herself not to appease the court's judgment. It is a crime and if we were some kind of state, but at least some kind of state, that certain Tatjana Brozić Peric, by this morning at eight o'clock in the morning, would no longer be in that place, she would be removed, she would be evicted because she does not respect the court's decision. Who was supposed to do that? Vesna Bedeković Minister of Resorna. Now what are we gonna wait for? To send me, I don't know, the 9th, 10th request to be replaced by the Minister here now, this Ms. Minister Vesna Bedekovic, because it allows such scandals to happen in her portfolio that some boss, some welfare center, allows herself to disobey the laws. That's what we settle for with Belarus and Moldova. The practice of fostering a child in homosexual couples exists naturally in Spain, Austria, Germany and Great Britain, we now chair the EU Council and instead of being an example of advanced countries, open countries for us some Tatjana Brozić Peric sets the pace and drags us into the Middle Ages. Well, that can only be compared to what Zekanovic was saying here who doesn't understand that laws must be respected because it determines the Constitution that attacks homosexual couples here, registered partnership and that would be dealt with in the most cruel way. Hitler came up with a solution for them, sent them to concentration camps, Zekonovic would obviously want the practice to continue in Croatia. Well, he won't, he won't, while the SDP here won't. We will raise our voice against both Zekanovic and Tatjana Brozić Peric and against her Minister Vesna Bedekovic who is doing nothing. So that Tatjana Brozić Peric did not prohibit children, young children without adult escorts from going to the church because they are threatened by more danger than the popovic pedophilia than by fostering gay couples. Well, that'd be kind of a child-care thing. Does this woman even know what the child care about? Eight SDP ministers asked for eight ministers to be replaced and replaced, it was replaced after Plenkovic defended them, this is the 14th in a row that has been replaced, almost the entire government. They don't know how to fill out a card. They don't know how to fill out an estate card. We all have to fulfill it because we are officials, it is a very simple procedure, it is done via the Internet, it would make a child in elementary school can do it, it I am convinced that even Tatjana Brozić Perić would do it despite these decisions, but it is not successful by Plenkovic's ministers. So I wonder Mr. President, can you find at least one minister who's written? [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180717	Now we're going to the ninth debate, the SDP Representatives Club, the esteemed colleague Gordan Maras, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180718	Thank you very much. My colleagues and fellow MPs, respected citizens. On February 1st this year, in the main square of Zagreb, there was a big rally under the motto "Enough Is" and over 20,000 of our citizens in the city of Zagreb came to express dissatisfaction with the current authority in the city of Zagreb, Mayor M. Bandic and HDZ, who has been backing for over 3 years because of what Bandic counter-services return to the Croatian Parliament through the chips of Mr. Plenkovic peace until the end of the term, but the citizens no longer have patience, no longer have the will or desire to watch this kind of trade, and I am convinced that every new protest in the city of Zagreb that will continue for the coming months, there will be more and more and more of our citizens. People no longer want to suffer haughtiness, thieving, intransparency and want to show their activists, going out to the streets regardless of the parties, politics and that politician in the city of Zagreb, they want to say they are not satisfied. They want to be able to tell again what kind of city Zagreb and what authority in the city of Zagreb they want and do not want irresponsible politicians to spend their time, money and sell out their space. There are two crucial things that happened last week that will happen tomorrow at the City Hall. One is that the Constitutional Court, on the proposal of the SDP Representatives Club, abolished the shameful decision and regulation of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which allows the collection for the double-delivery of municipal waste. It is great that the Constitutional Court has realized how harmful this is, how much it can bring negative consequences to human health but also to the home budgets of our citizens and citizens throughout Croatia and has decided to promote this decision and promote it carefully and make a final decision in some recent time. So the good news is that for February and the coming months in all the cities of the Republic of Croatia, as well as in the city of Zagreb, they will not collect waste directed by the mayors Bandic and HDZ for twice as long as it was necessary to collect it. The second thing, tomorrow is the City Assembly and the country's kidnapping is being prepared for the citizens of Zagreb, the famous GUP and the hypodrom, and here I ask that HDZ finally one day before the assembly says what it will do because without the HDZ support of Bandic there is no GUP. Without HDZ holding the Bandic stand, there is no looting of the city of Zagreb. Is it worth Mr. Plenkovic's six months? The term of office of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to destroy the space in the city of Zagreb and allow these mules who are currently in executive power and you in the assembly, Dr. You support them all the time, whether it's worth the six months. To make such a scandal and make such a hoax in a land robbery? It would be great if at least now, at the end of the term, we could move away and resist this non-transparent and looting management of the city of Zagreb. If you do not want to do so, and the citizens want to change the city of Zagreb, the SDP will send a proposal to the City Assembly to recall the mayor of Zagreb, if HDZ thinks that he is managing the city of Zagreb, will not support this impeachment, and it is possible that the HDZ will continue to insist on keeping Bandic alive, but after that, the SDP will send a proposal to the citizens of Zagreb to launch a referendum on the recall of the mayor Bandic. We don't have time to wait anymore, we're sick of petty scams, HDZ and Bandic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180719	The next Club of Representatives is the SDP on behalf of which the respected representative Sabina Vosovac will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180720	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues, here is the first month of the Croatian Presidency of the EU Council. It is something we are proud of, as Prime Minister Petjesic's office head Mr. Petjesic has said, a great honor, a responsibility, but also an opportunity for Croatia. On the other hand, some officials specifically said the foreign minister the other day why the media, why the Croatian public is dealing with so many affairs stemming from the government that are linked to the ministers, with mahogany related to their property cards and properties. And he said that in fact we should all follow the Croatian presidency a lot more, that he does not understand why we are so engaged in affairs and so little what happens in the Croatian presidency. So let's do her, her turn. So if it is Croatia, and it is certainly a great honor, responsibility and opportunity, I am only interested in why the Government of the Republic of Croatia at the moment when we chair the EU Council, when we have the opportunity to impose some of the topics that are important for Croatia, but also to impose themselves as a responsible and important factor, not only in the region but also in the EU, why is the Government of the Republic of Croatia using this period to humiliate Croatia, to work against Croatian interests. In particular, news came out the other day that the EU will consider reducing air passenger rights at the Croatian Presidency's proposal, thereby making more money to airlines. Which means that an increase in the minimum flight delays of 3 hours should be considered for which passengers may claim compensation. Why is the Government of the Republic of Croatia working in the interests of multinational companies and against Croatian citizens? Why are these the topics we impose? On the side now of the decision in 2017, which has also been revealed recently that the government of the Republic of Croatia has voted against abolishing the compensation for Roma citizens within the EU. Another decision at the expense of Croatian citizens in favour of multinational companies. Why does the Republic of Croatia do that? Why does he behave like that? Third, when the whole world celebrates and solemnly marks 25 years of maintenance 4. The Beijing Women's Congress, which means a key document that adopts a Beijing Platform for Action aimed at empowering women and creating conditions for gender equality. The signatories are as many as 148 countries, and this can be very nicely linked to the Sustainable Development Goals Agenda 2030, where the key global objective number 5 is gender equality, and sub-target 5.6 within that goal actually says that women need to be given access to sexual and sexual and reproductive health, and that they should also work to improve, meaning that same, and the same level of sexual reproductive health. At that moment, the government of the Republic of Croatia not only refuses to comply with these arguments but refuses to fulfil the Constitutional Court's decision tasked it with adopting a new law on interruption, medical interruption, termination of pregnancy. So, we, at the moment when the whole world is marking some important I'm going to say so on the anniversary of the documents that need to raise the standard of medical and health care for women and when we have to fight the regression in terms of the right to abortion, and this very law that we couldn't even discuss yesterday is going into step to meet these globally sustainable goals, the Government of the Republic of Croatia at the moment when we chair simply ignores some global goals, some global documents and works against interest in this case not all Croatian citizens, but certainly against women in the Republic. It's nice to chair but it is even nicer to stick to some standards and goals in the interest of the citizens of the Republic. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180721	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180722	Now it's the SDP's Club of Representatives, dear colleague Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180723	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues. Dear citizens and citizens. I am glad that here on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club they can apostrophe yesterday on 11.2.2020 as one of the most important days in the Republic of Croatia and in the city of Zagreb where citizens managed to win over the bad policy that governs them. Yesterday, in fear of the citizens of the city of Zagreb, the mayor Bandic and HDZ played a small performance and tried to buy time until they thought they would again be able to seize space for the citizens of the city of Zagreb. The fear that has crawled into the bones of Mayor Bandic and HDZ since the loss of the internal elections and then the parliamentary elections, and at the end of the elections for the city of Zagreb, is too great. And therefore the citizens of the city of Zagreb must be aware that the pressure must be even stronger because these owners, these not transparent managers of our fates, those who think only about their own interest and the interests of their groups that finance them, support and do things that we don't know at all, are afraid of only losing their choices and your vote that can change them from their positions. And for this reason, everyone must be aware that only by continuing to pressure HDZ and Mayor Bandic can we finally see changes in the city of Zagreb and the Republic of Croatia. Only pressure on this bad, corrupt, commercial, non-transparent policy can change our city of Zagreb and the Republic of Croatia. HDZ and Mayor Bandic didn't change yesterday, they were only scared yesterday. They were afraid of the citizens and should fear the citizens, as they rule in the elections. Can we ensure that the citizens of our country, that the citizens of our city of Zagreb have the authority that deserves their trust, that will work in their interest, that will use all the resources that are available to them to make life in the city of Zagreb better? I'm sure we do. Are we going to use the knowledge of the Association of Architects in the city of Zagreb that offers a different vision of the city and different development of the city of Zagreb? I'm sure we will. Whether we will use all those development opportunities that the city of Zagreb has, whether we will invest more in schools, kindergartens, whether we will invest more in making our citizens feel better every day for themselves and their families, and not for them a few who are making powerful people, and basically not because yesterday they showed that they are afraid of citizens and yesterday is, believe me, 11.2. start of changes in the city of Zagreb that we will bring as soon as possible. We must not allow petty interests to behave in such a way as to satisfy the interests of themselves and those who finance them and support them and who have torn them up over the past few years to enable them to do so. If you look at symbolism, it is the citizens who can bring about change, with the help of those who will speak for them and with the help of those who will act for them and the interest when these changes happen. I'll tell you that every force and every candle can't burn forever. And this candle, not transparency and corruption and crime in the city of Zagreb, will soon be extinguished. Unfortunately, those who are in position now will see how it will go in the elections, and Mayor Bandic, believe me, will end up as some not very famous characters from our Zagreb history. It seems to me that Mayor Bandic will end very much the same way as those who have not worked in the interest of Croatian citizens in the ropin of political history. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180724	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180725	Now, Mr. Nenad Stazic will speak, which will be the position of the SDP Representatives' Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180726	Thank you, dear Vice President. Well, Mr. Jelenic's attorney general had to step down when he was found to be a masseuse. It's okay, the SDP Club has nothing against it, though, so you can't be a member of a secret organization and a top state attorney, that's at least clear. Who are these Masons, what are the Masons, created in the 14th century as masons, and then later turned into some secret or semi-secret society. Their members were very popular people, Walter, Didro, Russo, Igo who introduced education into the Masonery, in Germany they were Goethe, Fichte, Mozart, Beethoven, the Mason was also Churchill, they were priests, the most famous of us bishop Strossmayer. They can't be atheists, they can't be never, they can't be atheists today. The church later moved away from the Masons, probably because of the competition, and one and the other want to influence social events. Here we are witnessing, the Croatian Bishop's Conference every little bit makes a statement about some kind of social problem as if it were their mission. Okay, there's a whole series of organizations that are similar to the Masonic organization, the Rotary and the Lions Clubs, those clubs for rich, and the Doton to gentlemen. Members call each other, not brothers, but friends, mutually helping each other, as they do the Masons. There are church ranks, some as mystic as the masses, they have their rituals, special clothes, hierarchy, their titles. Mason runs the great maester, but the great maester also leads the knights of St. The tomb of Jerusalem. That order came into existence in the Middle Ages, and it is also the vice president of our Parliament, Mr. Zeljko Reiner. One of the tasks of this order of knights is the survival of Christians in the Middle East and the finding of donations to keep those Christians there. That's what the Knight Reiner says. Now, I think Knight Reiner has a problem. He didn't report in the property card that he was a member of that knight order, and secondly, if that's his job, collecting donations and he's really collecting donations for the survival of Christians in the Middle East, is that a trade in influence, if he's as vice president of the Parliament collecting from someone's donation? Well, that should be examined by the Commission for a decision on conflict of interest. Okay, there's a difference between the Mason and the Knights. Knights belong to the Catholic Church, and here, just yesterday, the diocese in Pennsylvania, which belongs to the same Catholic Church, went bankrupt under financial burden over sexual abuse charges. 110 victims, 12 million kunas of compensation should be paid, led by Bishop Roland Gainer, so different, not Reiner, but Gainer. And since the beginning of 2000, 20 Catholic dioceses have declared bankruptcy because of pedophilia. And this one, you see, interestingly, is missing from the Mason. You don't know of any Mason who'd be charged with pedophile. Then which association is more socially dangerous? Why do we allow some officials to be members of an organization, and others not even these potentially more dangerous, socially more dangerous, just because they belong to the Catholic Church? It's not quite acceptable to me. So, we expect from the President of the Parliament, we expect from the prime minister and president of the HDZ, but also primarily from the Committee for the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest to declare this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180727	Here, respected colleagues and colleagues, as announced, are moving forward with a statement of view on behalf of the club of representatives and will speak first on behalf of the SDP's Club of Representatives, the respected representative Bernardic. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 13.25 HOURS]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180728	The Honorable Vice President of HS. This is the second in a row that the ruling majority does not have a majority to vote on. In this way, the second week in a row HS cannot make decisions, Parliament's work is blocked and cannot pass laws that are essential to citizens' lives. On the other hand, this isn't the only institution that's blocked. We testified this week that the DORH had lost his attorney general. The system that should take care of the security of all citizens is now beheaded and cannot adequately care for the security of our country and any actions that need to be taken in terms of corruption and protection of citizens. Therefore, the DORH is another institution where there is a crisis. So there is a crisis in the country of key institutions and no one can control what will happen anymore. We are therefore seeking elections immediately, so that citizens will no longer be hostages of the ruling. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180729	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is the SDP on behalf of which the respected representative Mirela Amedovic will speak, I think for the first time. Right? Here you go, though.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180731	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, fellow MPs and colleagues today, we have the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Gas Market Act, as the proposer claims to avoid distortion of competition in the internal energy market in the EU and negative effects on security of supply. The proposal also argues that the law will increase transparency and provide legal certainty for market participants, particularly investors in gas infrastructure and system users. Well, let's remind ourselves of the transparency that the HDZ government made possible for us in 2009. In addition to the corruption of the management rights over INO Sanader's government in 2009 agreed with the Hungarians to isolate the gas business from the INA, all to the detriment of Croatia and its citizens. Sanader's government also signed a contract under which it committed to buying gas from INE and MOL under very unfavourable conditions. When Croatia tried to give up on it, MOL sued us and asked for compensation in billions of kunas, and then miraculously gave up payment of interest and capital. Since then, the management of the gas business in Croatia has been carried out in accordance with the Hungarian energy strategy, and this government is likely to be managed. The Hungarian strategy consists of three parts. The first was to take gas and oil sources with very favourable concessions and that was settled. Done with the help of Sanader's government. The second was to transfer all processing and production to Hungary, close Croatian refineries. Today Hungary is building a large petrochemical complex that serves final and profitable production, and we have already successfully closed this petrochemical complex in Omislja. Look at the coincidences. The third was to provide more supply routes, which is why they need LNG and maximum benefits in transporting gas and oil through Croatia. Here, now he'll get it from this Croatian government. I remind you that 10 years ago a highway pipeline was built through Lika, for which Plinacro spent more than a billion kunas, and no one joined it. It's a similar situation in Dalmatia. It is obvious who this construction of the gas pipeline from Omis to Zlobin will serve. The Hungarian energy strategy has been successfully implemented. And what does Croatia get? This law allows Hungarians to import Croatian gas from the northern Adriatic, gas from Italy, and the submarine pipeline is ININ, the gas that comes through Austria and Slovenia as well as through LNG terminals and to transport it naturally at the same price. Therefore, when Croatia loses its cheaper gas, which will be used by citizens in Hungary, it will import gas. And finally, the current government will have reason to build a LNG terminal in Omislje, through which it will be able to import the most expensive gas in the world, and this gas will be delivered to it by Hungarians who will manage LNG because the government will also announce it in the lex LNG to them in their possession. And let Croatian citizens think that every coincidence, every similarity of this project with the INA MOL scandal is random. Well, let's do some thinking. It's just amazing how the largest energy project in the Republic of Croatia is currently being implemented by a floating LNG terminal. First, a lex LNG that is contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and to European regulation was adopted, a competition was prevented, a monopoly was assigned to the state supply company LNG until the monopoly was surrendered to Hungary. The floating terminal is built against the provisions of the Omis and Primorje-Gorski County spatial plan, the construction of the terminal is carried out against the project which is explicitly listed and approved in the local building permit. Such practice would certainly not be allowed for any small entrepreneur or privateer, but the state firm is allowed to do so. But that's not enough either. Now Plinacro, also a state-owned company, lays pipeline pipes in the Omislje, along the route drawn in a spatial plan. Why do we need laws, what do we need spatial plans for, what do we care what the Constitution says about the rights of local self-government? From the perspective of small Omis, I am surprised that the Zagrebs are rebelling against the adoption of the urban plan, i.e. the GUP. Whatever plan we have, whoever's in position can absolutely do anything. Whatever's written in the state institution's spatial plan doesn't care, what someone imagined will be done. No wonder we're publicly identified as a country in 126 places and by an independent judiciary. Behind Serbia and Zimbabwe. Finally, I congratulate the Croatian government for so faithfully and consistently helping to implement the energy development strategy but Hungary. I congratulate her for so bravely degraded and ignoring the attitudes of local and regional communities, I congratulate her most of all for faithfully following the example of her former president, Ivo Sanader, and not departing from the pattern that the citizens of this country have become accustomed to.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180732	And the last is, at least for the time being, Mr. Gordan Maras, who will be the representative of the SDP Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180733	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, esteemed citizens, what I wanted to point out here today, and what I think needs to be said, that despite the challenges and crises that are clearly happening in our country and the problems we have with a potential epidemic, life has not stopped and the government should continue to do its job. The government should make laws, the government should offer solutions, the government should make it possible for citizens to live color, the government should have solutions that were here before, which before and my colleagues here have spoken depending on the situation that should be developed, and what is certain is that it should not be that the government does not refer solutions to the assembly that we do not have here debates and that it is simply amazing that at this moment 90 legal solutions of the opposition stand and wait for discussion and procedure, and the Bureau of Parliament or the President of Parliament and those who do not refer to these laws in the procedure. So the government doesn't do anything, period, reference work. The government is occupied and Prime Minister Plenkovic is more occupied today by how many signatures he will bring to HDZ, how these elections will take place in the HDZ in two weeks than our citizens live. The government doesn't do its job, the government doesn't do anything to make citizens better, the government is simply in standby fashion and deals with itself and deals with things within the HDZ, and that's what we just can't let and what we have to warn about. These last months, Plenkovic's government is certainly something that will remain remembered as spending time and as spending money and ultimately as no results. It would be better for Croatia, for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, if the elections were held as soon as possible, before summer so that the new government, the new majority could continue to do their job. Because believe me, this is a lost time, I'm worried about who's going to win the HDZ, whether it's Kovac or Plenkovic, whether it's me who's going to fight there and whether it's Bear or Penava or one of the other colleagues who's running for vice presidents. Croatian citizens have nothing to do with it, Croatian citizens have nothing to do with problems, Croatian citizens have nothing to do with the fact that this bought majority still has six months to pay, Croatian citizens have nothing to do with the fact that more and more of our evictions from the Republic of Croatia every day, that there is no sense of justice and justice in Croatia, and in some ways citizens are leaving the Republic, that we are dealing with the Masons, not the Masons, that is something that certainly means nothing to the citizens. So on that side my call here and our call here is to do something in the interest of Croatian citizens, to try to bring this assembly to an end and to go to elections as soon as possible. Let's see what Croatian citizens also think about those who are bought in this assembly, who are chips, say what citizens think about those who are fighting the past in this assembly and who are the only ones who care about who is what and what it is 30 or 40 or 70 years ago, that Croatian citizens say what they want and how they want to go on. I'm sure they don't want to go on like this, I'm sure the bought coalition, the trade coalition between Mayor Bandic and Prime Minister Plenkovic after these elections will no longer be the one who will have a majority in the Croatian Parliament and will not form a Croatian government, but what we should be in the interest of all is not losing another 6.7 months, because none of them have any of it to get another six salaries here in the Croatian Parliament, and on the other hand, that they do nothing for Croatian citizens and that in some way we see from Friday to Friday that there is not even a majority that would vote the laws that we discuss here in the assembly. Leave the gentlemen of the HDZ Croatian citizens alone, allow them to choose a new power and in some way go into a better perspective and the future especially with regard to decision-making in the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180734	Debate No. 8th Honored colleague Gordan Maras, Club of Representatives of the SDP, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180735	Thank you very much, dear colleagues and colleagues. Today we decided to talk about a subject that is very current and which burdens a very large number of our fellow citizens and after the past few days this unfortunate and, and, and, and, and, a dangerous epidemic of coronaryvirus has reminded that the Republic of Croatia is far from the country of the 21st century, but that it was stuck in the 19th century when we see that in certain educational institutions we don't have the most basic, sufficient amount of basic hygiene supplies, once again one politician for that section believed or not. So, after warning on Monday that there is not enough hygiene material, consumer material, soap, paper towels and all that our children should have in Zagreb, regardless of the epidemic or any epidemic, Mayor Bandic reported that, here I can even quote one amazing thing, it is that he suggested that if there is no soap that children in schools wash their hands with lug or ash, that he did so when he was young and was much healthier than he was now and younger. I'm sure that the ash or lug isn't rejuvenating and, and it doesn't affect health, and I'm sure that this statement is not only bizarre and silly but also dangerous. And here I am sending a very clear message to the mayor, and also to our citizens that we need to put pressure on the city administration to do what is necessary, which is to equip schools and invest in hygienic supplies in schools and kindergartens and do everything in order for our children to have normal conditions at the time of education. What Mayor Bandic said is likely to personify his relationship to his business and money, which he manages on behalf of the citizens of the City of Zagreb. He would remind Mayor Bandić that Zagreb has 10 billion kuna budgets, that it is quite enough to equip educational institutions in one of the most qualitative ways possible for our children to be safe and have the best possible conditions, that the citizens of the City of Zagreb are justifiably insecure and object and that the citizens of the City of Zagreb are not farmers who should just pay taxes and give money in the city register and that the money they pay in the city register is not Bandic's money but is the money of the citizens of Zagreb and the money of the City of Zagreb that should work in the best possible way. So Mr. Mayor lives in one of his worlds and film thinking that the money he manages is basically his money and that he can do whatever he wants with it. I am telling him that he can't, I know that he is aware, another year of office he has, after which he will no longer be mayor, but what I can say, in the next year you are obliged to do what the citizens of the City of Zagreb require. If you require a standard to be created in schools and kindergartens as it should be, then you do it to Mr. Bandic, and you do not send a memo to the directors, you transfer responsibility to them, you ask them to deny what all parents in the City of Zagreb know, and that is that there are not enough hygiene supplies in primary and secondary schools and kindergartens. And then the question arises why this is not possible in the City of Zagreb, which is why we are re-paying services in every item that we can follow every day. Here, yesterday we saw that on Trnjanjska Savica the president of the HDZ Council paid 9.00 kuna over the City of Zagreb, means the brush for, for the 9.00 kn toilet paid more than 300,00 kn, means 40 times more they paid one brush and this is one picture that shows how money is managed and how those who are now in position in the City of Zagreb, which is Mayor Bandić and HDZ managing our money. And here's the end of the messages, Mayor Bandic, wash your hands with the luge, and our children will follow the way they need to be washed and how hygiene should be maintained in the 21st century. And it's with enough hygienic supplies [[Intruder: Thank you]] Do it and listen to your parents instead of making money [[Intruder: Thank you very much, thank you very much, dear colleague Maras]] Can I finish my sentence? [[/Agreement: Comrade Maras, thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180736	You can't, it's been 12 seconds, please leave the pay phone. We're going to the tenth debate, dear colleague Peja Grbin on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180738	I thank you, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Of course, in the fight with the coronary virus, the protection of life and health of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia is first of all, regardless of what certain questions are being asked, such as the question of why Slovenia has far more tests on the coronary virus than Croatia, the SDP provides full support, primarily to Croatian doctors, and then the efforts of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to prevent the spread of this dangerous disease. But in addition to health care, this epidemic has an obvious economic aspect, which, unfortunately, must not be ignored. For example, if we look among other EU Member States and not only Italy, which is the most affected by this disease, and it is obvious that its government is taking the most measures to mitigate the consequences of this disease, for example, Germany or our neighbouring Slovenia have already taken major steps to facilitate their citizens and the economy from the upcoming economic crisis. For example, in Germany, the government has prepared a package of 12 billion-euro measures, and in neighbouring Slovenia a billion euros. On the other hand, the reply of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is unfortunately not as spotted and up-to-date. Minister Maric thus said last night, I repeat, our expectations or hopes are heading towards a hot-time crisis. Such a response by the Minister of Finance does not give me faith that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is now ready, prepared and taking all actions to prevent the economic crisis, and then mitigate its consequences. Dear colleagues and colleagues, my concern must be clear to you. I come from Istria, which is particularly severely affected by the effects of the coronary virus. On the one hand, the Istrian economy is oriented towards tourism, and on the other hand, in the manufacturing sector, it is very focused on business with Italy. However, tourism is the most important economic branch in the entire Republic of Croatia, and Italy is one of our largest foreign trade partners. The crisis in Italy must inevitably be transferred to the Republic of Croatia and we cannot escape from it. That's why aid to the economy is necessary. However, aid to the economy is not enough. In this crisis, we also need to look at the consequences it carries on the citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia. For example, in the area of Istria and the Primorje-Gorski County, we had an unfortunate situation that many of our citizens were out of work in Uljanik and 3. Maya. In order to save themselves from poverty, they sought work and found many jobs in Italy. Today these people cannot go to their jobs, and on the other hand loans have to pay, on the other hand they have to provide children with conditions for schooling, they have to pay rents, directors, buy food. The government of the Republic of Croatia must also appeal to the SDP to prepare emergency measures to facilitate this situation for the economy and citizens. These measures should go in the direction of tax discharge, but also those measures must go towards imposing obligations, for example by banks to provide a moratorium for particularly vulnerable groups of citizens to pay off their obligations which, otherwise, citizens will not be able to pay. Dear colleagues and colleagues, this, you take my speech as an appeal, as an application to those responsible for the economic situation in the Republic of Croatia and for economic measures, which is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Start doing your job, propose concrete measures, and if these measures are good I am sure that they will enjoy the support of all of us sitting in HS and who we do not want to use this situation to collect political points but only to facilitate the problems that are clearly in front of our citizens and citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180739	The next club of MPs is the SDP on behalf of which the respected representative, Peja Grbin, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180740	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, allow me, first of all, to thank, on behalf of the Club of Representatives to whom I belong and on behalf of the SDP, all healthcare professionals and workers for what they are doing these days in order to counter the dangers posed by citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia from the coronaryvirus and the diseases it is causing. I will also take this opportunity to invite citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia to follow closely the information they are sending, which is national to what their regional crisis headquarters are and to be guided by them because at this point it is the safest way to prevent and prevent the spread of this disease that has turned into a global pandemic and in Croatia in an epidemic. Also, allow me to express my satisfaction that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has finally embarked on more concrete disease prevention and prevention measures, such as the measure presented today, which is the closure of educational institutions in the Republic of Croatia, starting Monday. So, primary schools, secondary schools, colleges, kindergartens, which we believe is good, it's necessary, it's useful and it will help prevent the spread of the disease. However, we also believe that this measure is not enough for itself. Shutting down schools, without ensuring adequate care, taking care of children, is simply not enough. In our view, this measure should have been followed by another one, which is the decision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia or this House to ensure that during the period until schools work, at least one parent, at least those children who are preschool or primary school age, they can stay at home with those children at the expense of their salaries. I'd like to remind you that the secretary of state at the Ministry of Education, Ramljak invited her parents to make sure someone was with the kids. Parents can't do that unless they're allowed to. As many of us know, and today our parents have come to us with this problem, many of them have taken advantage of their annual vacations during the strike, they simply now have no option, if there is no one to look after their children, but to pray for their doctors to open up some sort of fictitious illness. Therefore, we appeal to the Government of the Republic of Croatia that as soon as possible we go with a measure that will allow one parent to stay at home and care for their children with salary or part of the salary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180741	3rd debate, dear colleague Ranko Ostojić, on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180742	Dear President, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. The Government of the Republic of Croatia shall, on a proposal from the Minister, establish and appoint a solution to the Civil Protection Staff, consisting of executives and central authorities of the State Administration. I am now saying this for the reason when disaster is declared, the Civil Protection Staff's work is being handled by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia or by the authority of the Prime Minister, a member of the Government, the Head of the Civil Protection Staff of the Republic of Croatia. This is a provision. 22. and on this example, I want to show that in this situation, in which the SDP can of course be called a serious disaster, it wants to show its responsibility, and you have just seen in the vote on changes to the law without replicas, without reporting, in an effort to address the centralised management of this crisis as well as best possible. I think it's very important to point out that we should all be involved in this. It doesn't mean pay for any decision as to how someone comes to mind. It is primarily an interest to protect the citizens of the Republic of Croatia in the situation that as much as we could object to hundreds of complaints given, that we are interested in all and that we believe in the best intentions of people who are professional in protecting the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and that in this sense we want to make a contribution as a responsible party. In the event of the occurrence of specific circumstances involving an event or a certain situation which could not be predicted and which could not be affected, which endangers the life and health of citizens, the property of greater value, significantly disrupts the environment, economic activity or causes significant economic damage to the Civil Protection Staff, it makes decisions in the instructions carried out by the civil protection headquarters of local and regional (regional) self-government. It is clear to us that this is being brought precisely for reasons to achieve unity in acting so that it does not happen that someone in a city or a municipality has its own measures that differ from the intensity to protect all citizens, as there is no limit between municipalities, there is no limit between the states, and that is the question that this virus does not know the borders. In this sense, our contribution is not to report this morning, not to say perhaps better intentions that could have been resolved in the civil protection system, not to mention that there was a better solution in the earlier legislative proposal, but since it is a serious situation, above all only that message. The issue of concern for its citizens, making quick decisions, not allowing improvisation and a situation in which panic will not only spread but also address with responsibility the issue of what bothers citizens the most. How to protect this cannot be solved only through two press conferences, it should be a unique action. So I'm going to stop at any further discussion on this issue, and, of course, our MPs and MPs are going to talk about all other things, especially about the economy, the solutions that need to be saved at this point, but I want to send a message from this speaker on behalf of the SDP, which is if we want to be responsible for the MPs, then this is the moment where I believe that we will find serious intent and civil protection headquarters to listen to smart advice, to hear those sentences that should not necessarily be transmitted through the cameras and that it will be open to it. This is a disaster, this is a situation that is serious not only for Croatia but for the whole world and at this point on our part you can count on support in responsible measures, but what is important please do not take advantage of it. In that sense, as soon as there's a chance because we haven't filed a amendment or objected, this article. The 22nd must contain another provision, which is who decides that the National Headquarters assumes everything that is otherwise in the hands of the headquarters representing local and regional self-government. I thank you on my part, I believe that we will all approach this responsibly and on the side of the SDP you can count [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180743	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180744	The next Club of Representatives will be SDP, and this one will speak on behalf of the club, the respected representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180745	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens, the HS has shown in these two days that the situation in which the Republic of Croatia is in place is up to it, that it is possible in one democratic way to discuss and possibly unanimously or with a large majority of votes to pass those laws that are in one part a larger or smaller response to this situation. HS still needs to be a place where citizens will be able to express or receive answers to some of their questions or to some of the concerns they have in this situation. The Croatian Parliament is a place which, because of the seriousness of the situation, some constitutional rights of citizens can and limit in this situation. That is why we are asking in the SDP to open a discussion on the application of Article 17 within the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. The constitution of the Republic of Croatia which clearly states that in a time of great natural disasters, certain freedoms and rights guaranteed by the constitution can be limited. The constitution defines what cannot be limited but let's stick to it. The decisions taken last night are that they are limited or previously taken, that certain constitutional rights of citizens are limited, the right to public gathering, the right to freedom of movement, the right to exercise economic activity. But it's good, and the Constitution says it's supposed to bring two-thirds of the majority, to bring in and how long it can take and to bring in when these restrictions will be revoked. In this situation, the legal and orderly functioning of the state is much more important for citizens than it is, rather, and I hope that it will soon become again. This is a time when citizens must have greater trust in institutions and states than in so-called "citizens". normal times and we need to prevent the state authorities from abuse of that trust, because abuse of trust in someone in this situation creates unnecessary panic and fears among citizens. The state has to function legally, it has to function neatly so to say, and no abuse of trust received by certain state bodies in this situation should happen. Those who perform on behalf of the state today should not go out with unverified information, accuse others of unwittingly functioning, and then become subject to a lynching in the media like we had a case with doctors with Rebra, so the subsequent statement must be tempered or a statement that someone refused hospitalisation, and the family argues otherwise. You can check it out and go public with verified information. It is also a question of freedom of the media, it is also a question of other democratic rights, and therefore, in this situation, the Croatian Parliament should be the one who, in the Constitution, will limit certain rights of citizens to a certain time, carry out the debate, not leave it to the authorities without democratic legitimacy and without a clear mandate to do so. If the situation is special, and it is, if Croatia has hit a major natural disaster, and it is, then let's do the task the way the Constitution asked us to. If a meeting cannot be done by the President of the Republic, but one decision in which we will count which rights of our citizens are currently limited and/or at least a debate on such a decision, so let's see if we all agree on this and reunited decision in the Croatian Parliament is the best answer for the citizens that Croatia and this will survive and that it will be that way, and you like to quote the president, the first Croatian president, is unique and eternal. So, the Constitution had, had laws, had a state and let's get out of this situation as a real state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180746	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180747	We are now moving to deliver a position on behalf of the Club of Representatives and Independent Representatives, the first Mrs. Caroline Leakovic in front of the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180748	KAROLINA LEAKOVIĆ: I thank the chairman, colleagues and colleagues. A fellow Shuker called for trust unconditionally in the rulings of the government of the Republic of Croatia. I will still take the opportunity, regardless of the call, to refer here to yesterday's decision by the Government of the Republic of Croatia at a telephone session and actually ask for clarification of such a decision since I am sure that the Croatian public, our citizens and citizens are interested in why such a decision has been made. Therefore, it is that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has adopted a solution on the granting of funds on the burden of the budget for this year and that is, that an advance of 18 million 937 thousand and 500 kn will be paid to the medical and pharma trade for the purchase of protective masks for the purpose of preventing the spread of coronaryvirus. Therefore, it is that this private company will be paid 19 million kuna in order to obtain 2500 pieces of protective masks for the purpose of preventing the spread of the COVID-19 virus. Since it's such a large amount of mask, I'm not going to speculate, I have no information, but we seem to be in a serious problem with the purchase of these protective means. What I really care about and what we are interested in from the SDP Club, but first of all, the invited of course about our citizens' and citizens' questions are actually the criteria that the government has led to when it has otherwise granted this private company, which was founded on 3.12.2019, this great support for the purchase of masks. So why has this very company been chosen, and why has it actually not already been used by these funds to go into direct agreements with producers of these supplies in the Republic of Croatia, and why has it not actually been in this way in the first opportunity that occurred after yesterday's measures stimulated domestic production? I believe there are reasons if we play with trust. So, I'd like the prime minister to explain why this decision was taken yesterday at a phone session? It's a huge amount that certainly, therefore, could welcome our companies, our producers, all those who are in difficulties due to this crisis. I'm sure there's no reason for the more detailed public not to be informed of this decision yesterday. First of all, because we expect additional medical equipment to be obtained in the next period, that medicines, hygiene supplies, and everything that is actually needed to deal with this virus, which, of course, threatens us. We have already talked about this today, so that the crisis may also be an opportunity, here is the opportunity for Prime Minister Plenkovic, the Government, to show in fact how responsible it is to deal with the challenge of producing precisely these funds at the moment in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180749	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180750	We are going to the 2nd debate, dear colleague Davor Bernardić on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180751	Dear President HS, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, let me begin by expressing my sincere condolences to the family of the dead girls. This devastating earthquake in the City of Zagreb has shown the necessity to adopt a special Law to solve the consequences of the earthquake in the City of Zagreb. That's what the SDP suggested and I expect the government to adopt. The SDP government was in the most difficult moments for Gunya when horrors were experienced during the floods passed a special law and restored homes. We need to rebuild our homes for more than 500 people in the centre of Zagreb, as well as in the sub-Sljemen area in the settlements of Markuševec, Markushevačka Trnava, Chucherje and other settlements affected by this earthquake. But images from earthquake - affected hospitals, especially from Petrova, touched everyone. They once again warned of the need to invest in the health system and ensure adequate working conditions, especially for all healthcare professionals, doctors, nurses, all of whom I really appreciate that the cold heads have endured this pressure, as well as for everything they are doing on the first line of defense against this vicious epidemic, which is unfortunately expanding. We in the SDP two weeks ago called for more rigorous measures and for more testing to be done to prevent the spread of the epidemic as effectively as possible. It's not just our position, it's the World Health Organization's position. It has been shown that every day the delay of rigorous measures leads to uncontrolled chaos. Rigorous measures have come 10 days too late, and the tests are still too small. The Republic of Slovenia has done only about 3,000 tests on 4 million inhabitants, for example 15 times more. Of all those tested at this point, 11% positive for the coronary virus, which is a large percentage. This way I would also like to invite the National Headquarters and all the competent services to make the tests available to as many people and to as many locations as possible, not to be spared on tests and medical equipment. That is why it is necessary to limit the spending of state money because we need every kuna, and that is why in the SDP we propose to suspend payment of parafiscal duties, at least these greatest during this crisis, suspension of all employment plans and in the state service and public enterprises, as well as agencies, as well as the suspension of all public procurement plans other than those which are not in the function of combating COVID-19. These days, it becomes clear that the measures taken by the government are unfortunately insufficient. The implementation is delayed and citizens and entrepreneurs do not know what to do at the moment. Unfortunately, at this point, many people have lost their jobs, lost their income for their families, and time is gone, time is running out. We in the SDP two weeks ago presented more than 15 measures to mitigate the negative consequences on citizens and the economy. However, many of the measures we have proposed and insist on the entrepreneurs themselves. Therefore, we are sending to the procedure for an emergency procedure a package of laws for the rescue of the economy. And it's not time for entrepreneurs to credit the state at this point. Secondly, the release of 100% of the contributions to payouts to workers during the duration of the crisis for those who have ceased their business and this is the basis of the Civil Protection Staff decision. Thirdly, the payment of 75% of the net salary and up to 5.00 kn in the companies affected by the crisis. Fourth, the moratorium on the payment of the credit i.e. to credit wars for citizens and entrepreneurs. Fifth, providing paid leave for at least one parent so he can spend time with his kids who don't go to school. 6. We propose that the next three months parliamentary representatives and other state officials share the fate of the people and leave for three months during the duration of this crisis on minimum wage, except for those on the first line of defense. 7. that VAT is paid only after charge of invoices and in the month in which the invoice was created. 8. We also propose to reduce and limit tight interest. 9. to amend the Income Tax Act and to raise the non-taxable part up to 30,000 kuna in order to ensure payments to workers in companies affected by these two disasters. I call upon you to be determined, to take measures this week because there is no time to wait and hesitate, to save the economy before everything collapses. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180752	The SDP advocates' club will also state its position, according to representative Gordan Maras on their behalf.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180753	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, although a HDZ colleague earlier said that the opposition should not be warned that HDZ is running and Bandic Mayor of all accounts, I will continue and we will warn here in the Croatian Parliament of the problems, the problems that occur daily and which citizens warn us about. A few days ago in the City of Zagreb we had a devastating earthquake very many buildings were damaged, very many of our fellow citizens may not be able to stay in their homes at the moment, but they are taken care of at some other locations, at a November home in the Flower Village, with their families, some have gone out of town, but the fact is that this should be a warning of what priorities we need for the future, we should work on and what special attention should be paid when a disaster like this can happen in the City of Zagreb. So, this way I want to express my support for all those people who were killed in this earthquake, we're very sorry for everything that's happened. I have visited the people of Markushevec personally, in Dankovec, in Chucherje, we have looked there, very many buildings are damaged and the house is damaged, unfortunately the statisticians and those who are engaged around this whole process of the list have not yet managed to do all the damage, it should be a little hasty to make sure that people can be in their homes or not. But what I'm trying to say here is I'm not particularly happy with the amount of money that's meant to damage people who've suffered from earthquake damage. So yesterday's announcement by the mayor of Zagreb that they will be compensated or that damage will be paid to people who have damages on the facility greater than 60% to 5% of the value of the facility is really minimal and I don't think it is enough and that we should make sure that people are treated as soon as possible for their facilities, their homes, their houses, their houses, to sort of pass a special law in the Croatian Parliament that would regulate such a disaster as it happened in the city of Zagreb, and to try to allow people to put their homes and homes into office as soon as possible, and on the other hand to deprive them entirely of the damage they have suffered because of this disaster. What I would also particularly like to point out here is that the problem in the city of Zagreb is not to invest in what we all call the city center, or the historic core of the city all these years, now come to collect all those unnecessary and overpaid costs of unnecessary investment. And all the money that's been coming in for years and I'd say from the city budget I spend in an untransparent way. Now they come to the collection of fountains and gold toilets and equipment and godmothers and various things that have been happening in the city of Zagreb for years, instead of investing in those facilities that citizens really need and that should be protected because of their perseverance or because they were made more than a hundred years ago and were simply to invest in them. The question now is how much has been damaged by these facilities where people live and schools of secondary, elementary, kindergartens, hospitals in the city center and why have not invested in them for years, why has the city of Zagreb not invested in them as owner for years? Do we really need to do fountains, do we really need to overpay for years of certain services? When we see at the press conferences of people who are under heavy charges of corrupt acts, then we must be aware that all these budget kunas that the Zagreb and Zagreb women have been paying for for years could be used in quality. And now, of course, we need to make a turn, and here I call on the city administration to stop building a monument for 35 million kunas in front of the city administration, 35 million kunas built by a company connected to Mayor Bandic, to stop an overpriced cable company that will cost us 800 million kuna, which is not our priority right now. We should bet on the damage that took place in the city of Zagreb to stop employment in the city administration. Incredibly, at this point in town administration, dozens of employees are employed while tens of thousands of our fellow citizens are out of work. So we must change our priorities in the city of Zagreb and I call on the mayor to do so immediately at this point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180754	The next statement of view is the honourable representative of Gordan Maras on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180755	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My fellow Members and fellow MPs, the respected citizens, I would like to thank here, primarily, all those public service workers who at this time are mostly firemen, officers who are working hard to defend themselves from this crisis, and to make it easier and easier to get through it, after being hit by the coronary virus or the global pandemic, and after being hit by a massive earthquake this Sunday. Unfortunately, the situation is what it is and there's nothing else we can do but try to get everyone back together and do whatever we can to get through it as simple as possible and to start normal lives as possible. I also thank the citizens who adhere to the measures issued by the national headquarters and who, who respect the measures of the restrictions on contact, means that they respect everything in some way to protect themselves, their families, their neighbours and our entire country as soon as possible to go through this crisis. What is important and what I want to say here is that however we are satisfied with how the national headquarters works and how we deal with this problem in health, we are not satisfied with the speed of the proposal from the Government of the Republic of Croatia concerning the economic part of the problem that is present on a daily basis. So if we had a comparative press conference like we have every day that Minister Beros gives us about the state of the nation, if we had a press conference every day of Minister Marić or Prime Minister Plenkovic's economic situation, we'd see that every day more and more people re-applicate to the labour markets, that the businessmen don't know what their perspective is, that companies who unfortunately can't work these months still have to think about how to pay certain costs like contributions, dropped to profit taxes and certain other taxes they shouldn't pay, and how, who are burdened and simply not knowing what perspective they have. So we have to become aware at this point we are already late for this because it had to be parallel to each other that, with a health situation, we have to deal with an economic situation that will last much longer than the problem of the coronary virus is fortunately because I believe it will pass, but the economic crisis will last for a whole, whole series of months, and possibly years. So on this side we expected already yesterday at the Government of the Republic of Croatia a set of measures that the Croatian Parliament could adopt to help the economy, to help citizens to continue their economic activities as soon as this crisis is over and to preserve as many measures as possible. Since there was no such proposal yesterday at the cabinet session, the SDP's Club of Representatives sent nine laws and conclusions here today that I hope the Croatian Parliament will discuss within as soon as possible, which include proposals that we think are necessary to do in order to protect jobs, to protect our citizens so that they can continue their business activities tomorrow, that they can earn for themselves, their family and in some way live from their work, or that we do not have an explosion and recession after this crisis has passed. This is primarily about suspending the payment of contributions for those affected by this crisis, this is about suspending the profit tax advance for those affected by this crisis, which includes a whole series of those flatulents, craftsmen and those who rent their premises that they do not have to pay that flat-rate tax. It takes care that jobs have to be protected and thus to increase the isolation of what the government predicted to be 3,200 kuna to 75% of the average salary and 5,100 kuna each month, because we believe that at this point the state must stand behind its employees, it must stand behind its economy, it must stand behind its people to continue normal with its lives. Croatia and the business part of Croatia must not stop, the state is the only one who can get enough funding to stand behind its citizens and we believe that these measures need to be implemented as soon as possible and adopted as possible. And I call on the vice president here to inform the president of the assembly that the next week these measures will be put on the agenda as soon as possible so that we can say with the view that I stand behind the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, behind our economy because the crisis will pass the jobs we must preserve. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180756	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180757	We are going to the 7th debate of the Club of Representatives of the SDP esteemed colleague Davor Bernardić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180758	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. We in the SDP believe that at this time due to the situation in the Republic of Croatia, due to the spread of the outbreak of the Croatian Parliament's coronary epidemic, the Croatian Parliament continues to work uninterrupted, in a way that keeps the plenary session from Monday to Friday, not from Wednesday to Friday. We also suggest that the meeting of the Croatian Parliament continue next week, so also during the Easter holidays, given the state in which our country is located. The agenda that we're discussing this week in no way reflects the real state in which our country is located because of the Coronation of the Virus. The agenda is the smallest said chamomile, and the Republic of Croatia is practically in a state of emergency. The epidemic spreads uncontrollably, every day few people are tested, of that small number, 12% of people are positive for the coronary virus. The virus has entered the hospital system practically and is therefore necessary at this time to protect hospitals and test all healthcare professionals. At the same time, the economy is in complete collapse. There is an ambiance of mistrust, no payments among suppliers, every day hundreds of people end up on the road without a job, no income for their families. There is uncertainty and fear among entrepreneurs and citizens. People are just desperate. The measures taken by the government do not produce absolutely any results. We have been warning for a month about the consequences of the crisis, and 20 days ago we came out with 15 measures to reduce the negative impact of this epidemic on citizens and the economy. As our measures were not adopted by the government, the SDP sent 10 to the procedure last week, a package of 10 laws to save entrepreneurs, to save the economy and to save citizens. I therefore urge you today, President HS, to put our 10 laws on the agenda as soon as possible this week, so that we can help citizens and entrepreneurs. Our package of laws would allow at least one parent to be provided with a paid leave during which he spends at home with his children. On the other hand, they would also ensure payment and 75% salary for workers in companies affected by the crisis, and up to a maximum of € 5.100,00, simply so that they could survive. We allow citizens and entrepreneurs of moratorium on loans for a year to provide business security for entrepreneurs, and simply provide security for citizens to move on with normal life without fear or uncertainty. Let's free the economy of payment of contributions while the crisis is going on, stop the tax rate on profits and suspend the income tax for the flat-rate rate for craftsmen and small tenants. This way, I call on the Government to lift all parafiscal burdens during the crisis, to restore trust in payments by example, to reduce state payments to suppliers for 7 days and to ensure the necessary liquidity to the economy through the European Stabilisation Mechanism, and to propose that VAT be charged at the rate. It's time for the government to step out of quarantine when it comes to saving the economy and jobs. We need to act now. The Republic of Croatia has no time to wait, no time for debate clubs and delays of all kinds. It's time for decisions. And HS is currently the last line to defend democracy. The elected representatives represent the will of the citizens, but they also represent the citizens most affected at this moment by this crisis due to the coronary virus. The MPs are their voice. We must allow their voice to be heard. We therefore propose that the advantage of putting a point on the agenda is those points that are just about easing the negative effects on the health of citizens and on the health of the economy here in HS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180759	The SDP representative club has also applied for a position on their behalf, according to MP Franco Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180760	Thank you, Vice President. So, first of all, I must address the leadership of the assembly, and we, as the SDP Representatives' Club, are asking for measures to be implemented by the end of the session, along with the Government's proposal, to discuss the SDP proposal as well. What I want to talk about right now is about the county district where I come from, and it's the Murter municipality. As we know, Murter municipality is the only one in Croatia currently in full quarantine. I want to thank everyone for having responded after the call of the mayor of the municipality of Turcinov and who made it possible for today to conduct and test and to conduct all other activities and related to the health of the citizens of Murter municipality. Also, I especially want to highlight the efforts of the Municipality of Murter Mr. Tonci Turkinov, who alarmed the entire Croatian public when he saw that the car was going downhill and that nothing else helped except the public. I want to give you their message, speed up the testing process and test as many people as possible. According to my information, the Murter municipality itself will go to a cost tax elimination rate of 3%, also likely to go with the cutting of municipal fees and communal contributions. What opens up as a big question is the Murter municipality after Covida-19, a municipality that lives in cca 2,000 inhabitants, living from tourism, and the marina does not work, private shops do not work, bakeries do not work, and the only thing it does is 3 stores in the composition of trade chains and currently supplying Murter residents. In particular, it should be apostrophe that Murter is a municipality with 86 restaurants, of which the 10th peak of Croatian gastronomic offer, of which 46 restaurants are stationed on Kornati. The quarantine prescribed on Murter is indeed quarantined, therefore there is no economic activity or in the building that in the rest of Croatia thanks God is not and is not good that, not even in tourism, hospitality and the like. The works carried out by Murter Municipality itself, which is a kindergarten with the value of an 11 million kuna investment, have been stopped, all projects and entrepreneurial and municipal stand at this moment. The budget is currently practically not full just because the quarantine officers can't access the municipality building so they can't even issue bills. So when you look at this whole community situation like Murter, the community with a scenario of complete life-blocking, since we're not still at the top of the Covid-19 crisis can still happen. With this step, I would like to appeal to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to propose specific measures for such municipalities because these proposals are not sufficient and they are not just municipalities, but maybe even whole cities if such a situation arises. I don't want a script like that, but it's possible and should be prepared for it. It is not a solution to separate our places by road obstacles and police ships from the rest of the world, it is not a picture of coffee we want anywhere in Croatia. It may be an emergency right now, but it's not the picture we want. Besides, maybe people behind those blockades wouldn't exactly agree with the thesis that their human rights are not being violated. Such places after Covid-19 pass, we cannot allow ourselves to recover economically. And that is the final message, so we ask the Government of the Republic of Croatia to take special measures in view of the Murter municipality's case and given that such municipalities may unfortunately still be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180761	It will now be the position of the SDP Representatives Club, the distinguished representative of Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180762	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues. Today in the Croatian Parliament, we are discussing a topic that is crucial to our future and what our country will look like when the coronary virus crisis is over, and I believe that most representatives and all clubs in HS will support the measures proposed here today, not because they are optimal because some more measures have to be taken, but because they are good as a direction in which we should go and all together take certain steps, do certain things so that our country will have a chance tomorrow as soon as possible from the economic crisis. The SDP has proposed 8 laws, some of those things that we have proposed by ruling, and we are just going to discuss some of these things, and we think it's very important to discuss topics like moratories on loan payments, so that's what we absolutely insist on and what we don't see in government proposals. The other thing is, it's still on the table that if one of the employees of the parents is not able to get free to take care of their child since our children are not going to school today, they should have the opportunity to spend at least one of the two employed parents with their child at home. It's another thing that's open and we're only going to discuss in the future. So, there's a lot of things that the SDP Representatives Club is proposing, it's going to propose in the future, and I believe that some of these things like this first, in the first set of proposals, are going to be accepted, although our proposal of 5,100,00 kn compensation is not accepted but it's 4,000.00, although our write-off of contributions we've proposed is not fully accepted, but let's try to find the best set of measures that we can all agree on in order to make it easier for our citizens. But now I'd like to warn you of a problem. So, on the one hand, we're talking, we're negotiating, problems that need to be solved at the state level, and in HS there's a debate going on, while on the other hand we in the City of Zagreb have had one catastrophic accident, so we've been hit by a massive earthquake 12 days ago, a lot of our fellow citizens aren't in their homes right now, the city still looks like, like, a battlefield, destroyed, chimneys on all sides, citizens in their arrangement solving their problems. Instead of helping the city of Zagreb to make it possible for its citizens to register their chimneys and ruins within a very short period of time, so that they can clear themselves up so that citizens can start to rebuild together with, with the city and with the state of their homes and public institutions, we do not have it at this time. Moreover, HDZ, Bandic and HNS are arguing over who should be responsible for what is in charge of the reconstruction. Instead of the Law on the Reconstruction of Zagreb is also on the agenda today, instead of defining certain things to help citizens, we do not have it in HS today. Try to understand the gentlemen of HDZ, HNS and Mayor Bandic, who are acting as authorities at the City of Zagreb's level, that citizens expect the city to stand behind them, that we cannot now discuss who will have control over the city's restoration, who will have some interest in certain activities, that citizens should be helped as quickly as possible. On this side, we expect that next week the Law on the Reconstruction of the City of Zagreb will be on the agenda, that next week we know very clearly how and how Zagreb will be renewed, that the following week will finally stop the disputes between HDZ, Bandic Mayor and HNS about who will have control and paw over what will be done in the City of Zagreb and when and how to rebuild because the citizens have nothing. Try to understand, gentlemen, that we are fed up with such irresponsible authorities in the City of Zagreb, that we are tired of the HDZ and Mayor Bandic and I call this way on all those who are looking at us today at 7 p.m. to come out of our window of indignation and to express clearly what we think about the government in the City of Zagreb, the Mayor Bandic and HDZ, banging on pots, fucking and showing that we are not satisfied with how the reconstruction is going in the City of Zagreb, how the city has set itself up according to that renewal and whether the City of Zagreb is behind its citizens. It's enough, it needs to be changed as soon as possible, we have to think about our fellow citizens, we have to say that this is not good and that this is not working in a way that protects citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180763	Thank you. The esteemed representative of the Hrg will now stand, no pardon with the views we are finished.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180764	We are going to the 5th debate, dear colleague Davor Bernardić on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180765	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. We in the SDP warned a month and a half ago about the consequences of the crisis caused by the coronaryvirus, and three weeks ago we went out with our first package with more than 15 measures to help citizens and the economy. Our measures were then not accepted by the government, but precisely because of the late government's reaction and because the time was running out from day to day, and Croatia simply had no time to wait, we sent a package of our 10 laws to help the economy and help to preserve jobs and by emergency procedure. After we have offered the Croatian public in the SDP for the past 3 weeks, but also to the Croatian government solutions to help entrepreneurs in their efforts to preserve jobs and to literally push them, especially the Croatian Government to act more quickly and more strongly in this direction, only one step towards helping the economy has been taken. But now we need to help the citizens, especially those most vulnerable. Among them are 70,000 social assistance users, 240,000 blocked and 400 thousand pensioners, or citizens who have income below the poverty threshold and whose survival during this crisis is in fact entirely at stake. In just two weeks of the crisis, thanks to the late government's reaction, 20,000 workers are out of work. Another 400,000 workers are in fear of losing their jobs. Over 5,500 permanent seasons and 100,000 people who are unemployed on the Stock Exchange and are not receiving any compensation, their employment prospects due to this crisis are almost completely destroyed. It's actually over a million people who are at this point in Croatia the most vulnerable, who are soon unable to pay the directors, who cannot pay the rent, who simply cannot pay the loans. And that is why SDP will continue to insist on moratorium on loans to citizens for a year, not for 3 months, but also for other measures that are under discussion tomorrow in HS, such as increasing the fee for self-insulated citizens, paid leave for one parent, reduction of tight interest, termination of the flat-rate tax for more than 110 thousand small tenants in tourism, but not only that. We will also insist on our 3rd package of measures to help citizens at the time of the crisis we presented yesterday, which includes 10 measures. The first is a fee of at least 4000 kuna per month for the next 3 months for unemployed people who were fired during the crown crisis, with 20,000 of them. Secondly, a 750 kuna protective supplement per month for social assistance users is 70,000 of them. The 750 kn protective supplement per month for pensioners with small pensions, so below this 1940 kn threshold, is approximately 350 to 400 thousand. Furthermore, a fee of half the minimum wage, i.e. 1625 kn for the unemployed on the Stock Exchange, 100 thousand of them and who simply cannot find any other job because of this crisis. 5., a fee with fixed seasons at a minimum salary of 3250 kn, 5500 of them. 6th, removal of the TV subscription for pensioners with small pensions and social assistance users. 7., a grant from 500 to 1000 kuna per month for renting an apartment for all affected groups, if they are hired, 8. I would like to place a special emphasis on this because it is necessary to do so at this time, for 240 thousand blocked citizens to suspend the performance and increase the amount of pay free of charge, as well as issuing bank cards for blocked citizens with an appropriate spending limit. And in 10th, the suspension of online banking fees, so that there is simply no physical contact. These measures shall be adopted in time of 3 months. or during the duration of this crisis. We believe that these measures are very concrete, enforceable and that we must act simply quickly to help the most vulnerable group of citizens. Unemployed, blocked, retired, permanent seasons and social assistance users. So I call on the government to consider them and to respect them as she has already followed some of our proposals.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180766	The last statement of view is on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HND and the esteemed representative of the SDP, the esteemed representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180767	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Yesterday’s word, that is, was the expression of yesterday’s day as politicizing and constructive unity. I will quote "What Bernardić is doing is unfortunate, now he is giving us lessons. This is not the time to politicise everything that would be constructive we are always ready to consider, but politicizing in this situation is not welcome." That was said yesterday at the press of the Civil Protection Headquarters of the Deputy Prime Minister and Interior Minister Mr Bozinovic, and thus little use of the political centre's presses. Mr. Vice President, you didn't resist yesterday either, and you also had one of your performances where you also accused us of politicizing, you said that "it is not time for entertainment and political competitions, but this is a time that requires community and concentration on these problems, and you invited Bernardić to go along with the government to seek the best solution". Did I quote correctly? That's how they transferred it. Fellows and colleagues, the word politicizing on the Croatian language portal means "to engage in political talks, to conduct policy talks" or "to make the policy features take place in policy". I think politics is one good thing for citizens, and for citizens, it's a useful skill or science or discipline, that politicians should work to make the citizens better, or that politicizing or dealing with politics is something that's useful. And giving criticism in the sense that politicians or politicians in power are better is not politicizing, it is the foundation of a democratic order. And don't warn us again that we don't criticise you, that we have constructive unity as a single-minded company and that we only praise you, a little bit took you and stopped at the ball and let political life in Croatia go on a normal course. In this regard, I call on the political elected officials to give the stage of their uniforms, no state of emergency, to take off their uniforms and these at national level and these at local level. Croatia has not declared a state of emergency, the situation is special, but until the state of emergency is declared, let us act as a mature parliamentary democracy. That goes for the citizens, that goes for the politicians. Last time, so-called. The March package was adopted unanimously with several accepted amendments by the opposition parties, today we voted in favour of almost all government laws although no opposition amendment was adopted this time. Is that a constructive union? Well, it's not like the opposition's 100% missed the subject with all the amendments she's proposed, is it? Today we are discussing a package of opposition laws, several laws have passed on committees thanks to the votes of the ruling majority, but is politicising when HDZ deputies pressure the rest of the parliamentary majority that when they have already voted for our law to change their vote? Yes, it is. So if we're going to talk about constructive unity then and a little bit and you put the ball down on the ground and calm down the experience, or let's just say there's no need for constructive unity, the thing is normal. Because what you've done to your internal party opposition by taking away their visibility and importance in the inside elections because of the crown, you won't do it to us. This concerns only you first, and this second concerns all citizens. And so, dear citizens, first of all, respect the instructions and decisions of the headquarters, it's for your physical health. And secondly, criticize what is not good, praise what is good, politicize how much it takes because we are a democratic country and do this first for physical health, and this second for your mental health and ours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180768	Thank you to Honorable Representative Bauku.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180769	Debate number 10 of dear colleagues, Boris Lalovac, on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180770	Thank you. Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues, the SDP has played an active constructive role in proposing measures to save the economy and jobs since the start of the crisis. So far, we have sent over 20 draft laws which have not yet been put to the vote and which we insist on, which ensure an increase in the basics for self-insulating workers to the amount of the average salary, then paid leave to one parent who spends time at home with his children during the crisis, an increase in the amount of non-taxable payments so that employers in particularly sensitive activities under the crown crisis can additionally reward their workers, subsidies from 500 to 1,000 kuna per month for renting the most affected groups of citizens if in the lease, the suspension tightens interest. It is certainly important to see that yesterday the government sent it to suspend the performance and help blocked in the form of a card issue, so they must not only free them from the performance but to avoid doing the job, to go to the counters they must issue cards. Then a monthly fee of minimum, in terms of minimum salaries for 100,000 unemployed who today do not receive any kunas and 5,500 permanent seasons that were to start working somewhere at the 4th month, however, do not receive any compensation. We also propose a protection supplement for pensioners and social assistance users of 750 kuna per month. I will only warn that there are about 400,000 pensioners who have up to 1,900 kuna pensions and about 70,000 social aid beneficiaries who have between 700 and 800 kuna benefits. And certainly, it is particularly important to have a moratorium on citizens' loans up to a year without accounting for additional interest and compensation. What we see in public these days is that banks have gone out with some moratorium for up to 3 months, however, have additionally burdened citizens through various verifications of such contracts. We think that this is unnecessary and that the government should intervene that, when certain moratories are already being done, certain restrictions must be placed there. But what we are warning is that this crisis, or all of these citizens who are being paid by the government today, is about 550,000 people who in 6 and 7 months will unfortunately not have to go back to where the economy is. That's the problem. And that's why the SDP is proposing a one-year moratorium, especially for those citizens. Why? Because all these companies, all of the economy in six months and seven months will actually start from zero, they all start from zero. And what we're afraid of is this current fictitious unemployment will erupt in unemployment in seven and eight months. All these entrepreneurs, the government doesn't have any instruments, now they've been keeping these people so fictitiously for three months, there are no instruments for employers to keep these workers and after this 3 months. In particular, we have problems, and today someone has already talked about paying the fees, which must certainly be ensured by the government, banning any profits from previous years, so we're talking about the cash principle as long as they have the support from the state. It's important stuff. What concerns me, too, yesterday I heard information that the government from public companies is buying liquidity into the state budget. What is really most important now is to provide liquidity to the economy, it is guaranteed the liquidity of the state's payment because the state can only be in debt under more favourable conditions than businesses, so they give liquidity to the economy and public enterprises have to provide liquidity. We see the situation of the City of Zagreb. So the worst would become now if the state, public enterprises, local administrations that will also find themselves in big problems would not start paying. Because the economy must, the most important form of liquidity or the insolvency of companies, because if the economic cycle starts to stop, then even if it starts after the insolvency or insolvency in society, we won't be able to get out for a long time. Provider, suppliers if they don't pay. And that's why I ask the government to make a package of state measures that public companies have to pay local administration as well. Because only now can the public sector come to liquidity much faster than the economy can and therefore this moratorium is important for banks. Because if the banks that just gave it three months lay down with their performances at 7, 8 and 9 months, they'll suck all the money out of the economy. It is important to us that the economy has insolvency and therefore this moratorium is very important to ensure the flow of money in the economy especially between suppliers. If the state gave up its income and we welcomed it, if the entrepreneurs gave up their income, I see no reason why the banks account for interest. and do not give one long-term liquidity or stability to citizens. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180771	The next Club of Representatives is the SDP on behalf of which the respected representative Sabina Vosovac will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180772	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Today, on April 22nd, a month after the earthquake in Zagreb, a month after the students left school benches, a month and a little more days after the students followed the teaching distance. The only thing you know about ending school year and graduation is that nothing concrete is known. As if there wasn't enough delay, indecision and making bad and devastating decisions in the strike when, due to our indecisiveness and ultimately misjudges and government decisions, we lost a month of our students in a situation that they practically couldn't follow the course, we're still going on with that kind of behavior, so we're spinning scenarios. A month ago, all students will have to take the prom remotely, we warn don't do that, children don't have the same conditions. The first assumption of a graduation is that it is laid on equal terms, on the same day at the same time. Don't do that. Well, kids don't have Internet anywhere, so kids don't have computers somewhere, they don't have a quiet corner, which is with kids with difficulties. Let's give up that crazy idea and then think, think, think and today come up with an idea, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, we'll spend that prom in June but we don't know what's going to happen in that prom yet, so we're gonna negotiate with the rectors here on hold we haven't negotiated with them anything to see if we can do with elections or without election classes, so then we don't know where we're going to go, so in the halls we'll probably because now we've become aware of the fact that there's not a single school in Zagreb that's actually inhabitable. How many kids don't have a roof over their heads? Now you're going with this other hybrid idea, you're releasing test balloons without it being negotiated with the directors, the local administration units and self-government, the epidemiologists, without having reached one consensus to get out and said here we decided that, that, that, and that. It is clear that we cannot predict some movement, but we must be able to make decisions even in these most difficult situations. We did this and otherwise what the Minister suggested yesterday to her 20 days ago when it was still real. So, prolong the prom, give up on-line graduation and cut the material and leave out the one from the second term for four years, but today it's not a real scenario anymore. Today it's a pass, it's too late, we have to look for new solutions. 9 countries in Europe are now prolonging prom, the UK and the Netherlands have cancelled it, Switzerland, France, Malta and Sweden have abolished parts of the prom. So in a number of countries with the tradition of graduation, graduation is abolished and replaced by received grades, well they probably have more trust in their educational, educational system, but they have made such decisions. We didn't bring anything at the moment. Parents feel a lot of suspense, yesterday calls one mom, the kid's an excellent student, goes to the competition, has panic attacks, is not well, has big physical but also mental problems. Are we aware that at this point in time, by not making decisions and keeping ourselves in suspense, we are making children? We have to save a generation that's lost too much. These countries canceled or delayed their graduation, and they had no earthquake, no strike, and our children had that, too. Now let's all break this agony, I'm a big supporter of state graduation and as one quality assuranceist, but also an anti-corruption mechanism when we get into colleges, but we are in completely different circumstances today and let's seriously think about just this year to cut out graduation, to ensure that children are finished by finishing grades, to negotiate with colleges not to carry out selective procedures, to go as far as possible to the Belgian model to get everyone into what they want, that the selection takes place after the first year, and where this may not be possible, it may be at the end of August or early September of the national qualification exams for universities that will have the content of the graduation for which the children were preparing, but there will be no additional stress and there will be no security risk, and safety but also psychological risk for students and insisting on the implementation of the graduation in June, regardless of the situation of the three weeks in which is significant and the future. Let's be reasonable, let's make it easy for the kids, let's not make it harder for them. All of us here are paid to make decisions, not to prolong them, stall them, and bring students, children, parents. in a stalemate position. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180773	The following is the statement of view on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, the distinguished representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180774	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Vice President. As we discuss here in the assembly, two points directly related to the Croatian judiciary and the state of justice are being discussed at the meeting of the Government of the Republic of Croatia today. The first point concerns the Law on Intervention Measures in executive and bankruptcy proceedings during the period of special circumstances, which are special circumstances, of course we all know. In principle, we support the adoption of such a law even though it is too late. However, we point out that the problem in the judiciary does not lie solely in executive and bankruptcy proceedings. There is also a problem in litigation procedures where citizens are denied regular and normal access to the court, there is also a problem in criminal proceedings where, although deadlines are ongoing, even though the release of prisoners from the prison is not being held. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the situation in the judiciary is generally bad. This epidemic and earthquake in the City of Zagreb will further reverse it. For what? Because the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, unlike for example the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or the European Court of Human Rights, does not accept the seriousness of the circumstances in which we are located and does not take appropriate measures to facilitate the pressure on the situation in the judiciary. When the crown process is over we'll only have worse condition, we'll have more unsolved items, we'll have longer waiting for our citizens and citizens. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I also use this opportunity to call once again on the Government of the Republic of Croatia to take the necessary measures to improve the situation in the judiciary and make it easier for citizens not to lose their rights. However, this is not the only issue of the work of the judiciary before the government of the Republic of Croatia today. Secondly, it is quite unexpected, now beware, the decision to set up a commission to determine candidates for the main state attorney of the Republic of Croatia. A body not provided for by the Law on State Attorney's Office, a body for which no one who deals with the State's Attorney's Office, the election of the State's Attorney General, and I humbly believe that I belong to people who do so, until yesterday evening, until he was announced by the Minister of Justice in the "Dnevnik" of New Television, there was no and no one knew about it. The Commission to determine candidates' proposals, not even candidates, but candidates' proposals, as in "Alan Ford" for researching ore and waste of time. The committee which will be questioned behind closed doors by candidates for a state attorney and likely discuss with the future chief state attorney certain circumstances which may not be for them to be discussed behind closed doors between representatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and representatives of an independent judicial institution. Dear colleagues and colleagues, and before this commission was established, we pointed out that the new solutions to the State's Attorney's Law on selecting candidates for chief state attorneys are bad. They're not transparent, they're just fine-tuning transparency. They only allow governments and authorities to hide behind other bodies in the election of their representative to the head of such an important institution. With this commission, it went a step forward. If the Government of the Republic of Croatia really wants real transparency, if the Government of the Republic of Croatia really wants the citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia, that the entire Croatian public has an insight into who will become the new chief state attorney then let them propose all six candidates who will be heard in front of the public, in front of the cameras, in the premises of HS, in front of the Justice Committee where it is for this and the place. And then we will certainly ask individual candidates about their meetings with the prime minister and the minister of justice before they file their candidacy. What we're doing today is simply a travesty and another proof that we have indecisive persons at the head of the government who don't know what to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180775	The next club of representatives is the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns and Independent Representatives Zeljko Glasnović and Zlatko Hasanbegovic, and the honourable representative Zeljko Glasnović will speak. He's gone. So then the next club of MPs will be the SDP on behalf of which the respected representative Gordan Maras will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180776	Thank you very much. My colleagues and fellow MPs. Dear viewers who watch us our fellow citizens. I wanted to look back at the things that are unfortunately happening in the capital city of Zagreb, which, with this epidemic that we have all experienced together the whole world, hit another big earthquake on 22.3. at 6.24 in the morning when everyone more or less woke up because of this big earthquake and left their houses where the city has suffered huge damage and in some way for a month and two days has not been functioning and has not been brought into some basic order so that citizens can live normally. Here I feel for thousands and thousands of our fellow citizens who have damaged objects. I most sympathise with the family of the deceased girl who was the victim of that day in an earthquake and all those others who are not in their homes at the moment and who simply cannot return because of the restoration, the review of the static and all that is not going well. I also sympathise with those who cannot achieve normal life habits because of what has been here for a month and two days are not connected to the gas and have no possibility of either heating or hot water. I also have to tell you that today, walking around the city of Zagreb, I have seen a number of more cranes that work take off chimneys, take off parts of the facades, and it all goes too slowly and too long and too slow. Of course, all of this was not deserved by Zagreb and Zagreb women, and it is normal that the city of Zagreb should have done much more for its citizens who pay the biggest tax in the Republic of Croatia and who simply do not deserve to be left to themselves. So to have protection, to have help we have both the state and the city, but our mayor who is essentially no longer my mayor and so I don't want to call him, instead of helping the citizens, he's going on his own way and he's spending our money the way he thinks it's appropriate. It is funny and amazing and sad and causes the indignation of all Zagreb and Zagreb Information that the money collected in a voluntary action for earthquake recovery in the city of Zagreb is spent in a way that money is won in non-competitions but directly by the contract of the party members Milan Bandić 365. It is a shame that during the earthquake and this epidemic, Mayor Bandic is assigning cult cinema to Europe also an institution dominated by members of his party. It is a shame that Mayor Bandic continues to take away the money of Zagreb and Zagreb and does not provide them with the minimum protection they need to be provided. It is a shame that the mayor of Zagreb Milan Bandic did not prepare the city of Zagreb for such a disaster. In the city of Zagreb, the first thing we have to do is change the mayor of Zagreb, we have to make a plan after that to rebuild the city of Zagreb, and first we need to rebuild health institutions and primary schools, kindergartens, secondary schools, educational institutions to ensure that our children are safe and that they continue teaching. What I want to tell you here now if you have time today at 19:00 if you are not happy with Mayor Bandic and if you want to send him a message to stop stealing our money and move away at 1900 hours to your balconies, windows of your houses and apartments and dedicate five minutes of banging pots to send him a loud message just as the earthquake in the city of Zagreb "goes"
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180777	Comrade Maras, you have spoken all your words, but please don't beat in the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180778	The gang's leaving.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180779	Based on an article. In 239, I give you a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180780	Now it is the SDP's Club of Representatives, respected counterpart Sasa Djujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180781	Thank you, Mr. President. Yesterday, Plenkovic boasted about the reforms and achievements of this government. The same government who boasted that she had suspended public procurement about three weeks ago. And in the meantime, his mail director buys under the Public Procurement Act at twice the price of equipment for 131 million kuna, and Resorna Minister Butkovic allegedly knows nothing about it. Not only is public procurement not suspended, but it's being conducted against the law. All this expensively resembles not so many long-standing corrupt actions related to this government, which must have left half of Plenkovic's ministers. The opposition, further yesterday, says Plenkovic has a lot of reasons to be dissatisfied. That's right. Like the dissatisfied citizens who have not forgotten how hard they have lived before this pandemic because of this government's inaction. So dissatisfied are we in opposition. We are dissatisfied to see how the HDZ corona profiters use this crisis to fill their own pockets, so the head of HEP under the auspices of Minister Coric and under the auspices of the Coronary Crisis of State Real Estates, Chief State Inspector Mikulić imprisons his own wife in the agency during the crown of the crisis without a public tender at the salary of 17,000 kuna while citizens, on the other hand, are increasingly suffering from the crisis. Until today, they have failed to agree on who is responsible and responsible for the death of 10 elderly people in the Retired House in Split. They say it is not HDZ's director, Škaricic, a megauhleb who has been silenced by a nurse for over 10 days, the same one who tried to warn about the symptoms of home users. As not guilty to the director of the nursing home in Koprivnica, people die, and nobody's to blame for them. While Minister Beros recommends wearing masks, the price of personal supplies and protective equipment flies to the sky. And what does this government do about it? As usual, nothing. They let the crown of profiteers get rich in someone else's accident. They also let banks make extra profits on the loan delay. They turned down our moratorium proposal on loans for a year, so they went directly to the interests of banks and large capital. No matter how much you recommend that we wear protective masks, you won't shut us up, you won't hide behind the virus anymore, and you'll be paralysing on the torture of the citizens, the public is waiting for answers, and the public is waiting for answers, but the honest one, if he can. What did you do in secret under the auspices of the coronacrisis and nights with the editors of some or rather privileged media? The Republic of Croatia is full of haughtiness, robbery, injustice, lies, fraud, nepotism, silence, corruption, chips and the Bandic-Plenkovic coalition. The Republic of Croatia is full of misery and poverty. Because of the late reactions of this government, over 30,000 people are out of work, people have lost their income for their families and can no longer pay loans, directors, rent. In fact, it's true that the Republic of Croatia is facing an economic breakdown because of unrecorded corruption and because of the last 3.5 years. No single reform has been implemented. During that time, the Republic of Croatia was systematically robbed. The Republic of Croatia is under the leadership of your government pessimistic, poor, over a million people live on the edge of poverty, and more than half of it are pensioners. Health care is due to numerous affairs and debts ahead of complete collapse. Educational reform does not exist. The security system has been breached, and the situation in the judiciary has never been worse. In the term of this government, our country has fled with its head, regardless of over 150,000 workers, mostly young people. Corruption has gripped all the pores of society. We are sinking on the corruption perception index, and the European Commission has pounded on us and sent us a message that we are the most corrupt country in the EU, which is not surprising when only 14 ministers had to leave this government because of serious suspicions of corruption, and this same government is being held in power by political corruption or by buying MPs in HS, and Plenkovic boasts yesterday by some so-called so-called government. The achievements of this government. One thing is certain, whenever there are elections, the citizens of the Republic of Croatia will say one big no-coron to the profiteers, calculators, corruption, chips because the citizens have not forgotten or forgiven you. It is time to make an inventory of this government's mandate and not just for the last month but for all four years, it is time to file an account for this entire term. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180782	The next club of MPs is the SDP on behalf of which the respected representative, Ranko Ostojic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180783	Your Honor, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Today the world is uniquely likely in the fight against the virus, it was also unique in another occasion, I hope it is important and therefore from this place I want to congratulate all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia on 1 May, 1 May, the day that should be the day of a single fight for better working conditions. Since it is not the custom in the assembly to mark the holiday in the Republic then here I will do it on behalf of those who think it would be necessary. To all those who don't work, I want them to get the job, to all those who work to be paid for their efforts. I want everyone on the front line to stay healthy and I want everyone better tomorrow, healthy and happy May 1st. I will take this opportunity to remind myself of another forget, which is that on yesterday Ivica Racan died, a man who had never lost his cheek, the elections, but the truth is neither the next Prime Minister nor the Prime Minister and the man who 30 years ago ensured that we would win the democratic elections without incidents, did not honor this assembly. However, my main topic is about 49 residents at home in Vukovar, I am talking about people who were evacuated on the night of the 8th, when Minister Beroš, along with Minister Bedekovic, came to Split and then said that someone knew someone had a fever and that was enough for sanctions. Of course, your speeches are clearly forgotten. From this case, they were only sent to nursing homes on 11 April, and by the evening before that, Minister Bedekovic said she had no information that the symptoms of people who were transported that night were happening. Unfortunately, 14 have passed away so far, although symptoms were then claimed to be mild. What I'm trying to say is that, of course, there's a Pedro, and the Pedro is a virus. It's so sad in this situation, that instead of the State's Attorney's Office being the only institution that can tell by its own word whether someone is guilty or not, we have various inspections, disappearances of the service book, statements, interviews by the defendants who need to self-evaluate themselves, it unfortunately happened. The headquarters went softly and noblely, everyone called, only rose petals were missing, and history as a life teacher can teach us one important thing, which is that every destabilising democracy, abuse of political power begins in the same way. 2 months later, we have a headquarters that is not even formalized through the ruling of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, consisting of professional political personnel of HDZ, without electoral legitimacy, suspending laws, the constitution as if it were the purchase of material for some kind of garage. The state, the euthanized assembly, has been shut down, trying to persecute people on the road, but must not be resented by those who think they will win the election. All the powers and laws they have rejected have failed to get through. However, I would like to send a message that crisis management with the likable thank-you Minister Beroshe has forgotten that there is a health system and all those who are currently expecting medical attention. 2 months are too long a period that is a situation in which he has to say only for the first 2 weeks of this crisis at the time of the frozen health we experienced the following, which is that 150 people died more than in the same period last year. Such figures are exponential in this respect, bring the system back, only 300 people are currently hospitalized in hospitals and you cannot ignore the health of the people of the Republic of Croatia that is their constitutional right and you need to stick to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180784	That's what we're done with today's work. We'll continue on Wednesday 6 May at 9.30 p.m., with an update on the agenda. Have a nice holiday and a weekend. Session adjourned at 13,15 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180785	Now it is the SDP and counterparts' Club of Representatives Ranko Ostojic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180786	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Honored President HS. 2.5. Addressed the public Blaženko Boban, the mayor of Split-Dalmatia, falsely representing himself as chief of staff or head of the Split-Dalmatia County headquarters and as spokesman for the national headquarters spoke about the inspection report which the national headquarters only mentioned the day before, estimating it in a simple sentence, which was that everything was great or that everyone followed the rules. My question is, what if they didn't follow the rules? Today we already have 18 deceased, and the situation in that nursing home is best depicted by how the lying situation is actually happening, with alleged expertise and so forth. So that's the same conference 2.5. Blaženko Boban said that on 8 April, the day after the evacuation, I received a report from the director of the home and principal of the teaching public health office on that afternoon on 9 April and in agreement with the resolution ministers, Minister Beros and Minister Bedekovic agreed on their arrival in Split. Very nice because he obviously did not notice that Minister Beroš was in Split on April 8th. He was in Split without waiting for any arrangements or anything, and then he said the following, if someone knew that the protégés had a temperature, that's a valid reason to bring sanctions. Minister Bedekovic said new instructions would come out of this case, even more detailed than those that exist and the fact is that we need to learn something from this situation because it is a situation we have not met before. That mass grave at this point that happened is just a picture of how it actually treats those that are most vulnerable. According to the epidemiological findings made etc., it was reported that during the time the visits were banned and all the infections that occurred by the staff. These are the statements of an epidemiologist from Split. Of course, that's when you start talking in the plural. Before that, 29 people reportedly had a fever. However, then it is mentioned that for 10 days it has been very clear or very simple and my question is, would any of you or anyone in the headquarters of your family allow for 10 days to have a temperature, symptoms or such, without reacting to it, especially in this situation? And of course, who's to blame? It's the virus, that's what's been officially said. But what's true, and that's that all this time we're actually forgetting the fact that, recently after the evacuation, they're a certain measure by the state's attorney's office, which is to carry out the reconnaissance. And no one should say anything, but it seems there may be a death here waiting for those who would be the main witnesses in all this. First of all, I'm thinking of the head nurse who obviously acted according to all the instructions and rules because she informed the epidemiologists on the 29th, the 7th, we had an evacuation situation. So the real question is, is this actually a legal coup? Is this a situation where we have a variant that the headquarters obviously has the highest judicial authority? I am Minister Bošnjakovic's pie here, is it true that it is an independent judicial body? He confirmed it to me and said the situation wouldn't happen that they'd do it right. Well, now I'm interested in when it's finally going to be and the only body that could determine whether someone is guilty or not and possibly blame the virus, and it's possible in these conditions, but I'm interested in when that finding is finally over or we're going to wait for everyone to die who might be questioned, with whom you might be talking and who might be telling the real truth about whether or not everything has been done by the rules. in a nursing home [[Intruder: Thank you]] a nursing home in Vukovar. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180787	It is now up to Mr. Gordan Maras, who will speak or present the views of the Club of Representatives of the SDP, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180788	Thank you very much. My colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs. Dear citizens, especially here I address Zagreb and Zagreb because of today's situation in St. John's Square. Marka, i.e. at a session of the City of Zagreb Assembly where several representatives, or all representatives of the opposition in the City Assembly of 20 of them, organized a physical session in St. Mark and thus joined the work of the City Hall. What did they do that for? They made it because HDZ and Mayor Bandic have been persistently avoiding the City Assembly physically for 2 months to discuss and make certain proposals to help the citizens of the city of Zagreb. They refuse to take responsibility, refuse to give certain measures, refuse to hear criticism of the citizens at their expense, and it is embarrassing, colleagues and colleagues, dear fellow citizens, that 140 years ago when Zagreb hit a devastating earthquake, the Assembly organized in a few days. Now HDZ and Mayor Bandic do not want for months to be held by the City Assembly, to adopt certain measures. After such a assembly began its work, after the representatives of the opposition in St. Mark possessed St. Mark's Square. Marka and began to participate in the work, appeared to boast Prime Minister Plenkovic who began to hold lessons by leaving the government of the Republic of Croatia, collapsed on MPs and asked them what they were doing, which is why they organised the session, that he was communicating with all of Europe yesterday, and now see them here in St. John's Square. Marka, one in boast, inappropriately, was treated with MPs in the City Assembly and showed the right face of HDZ and his right face and nervousness, and on the other hand, protection and protection of criminal authorities in the city of Zagreb, which, by the way, tried and dissipated opposition representatives because they sent, imagine, as if we were in a place 100 years ago where the riots were spreading, sent a vehicle of the city's purity to try to dissipate representatives in the City Assembly. This is HDZ for you, it is the mayor of Bandic and that is how much they care about democracy and citizens of the city of Zagreb. And one more thing. Today, in the government of the Republic of Croatia, there was not a single proposal legally that would define the solution to the problem of Zagreb and Zagreb. We're looking for a law to restore Zagreb, he's gone. The HDZ obviously wants to disband the Croatian parliament sooner, to go to elections than it is for them to make a law that could help our citizens, so that we do not wait for months of hot water, heating, so that they do not wait for someone to say, here, we will help, we will stand behind you while you rebuild your houses, roofs and chimneys, so that citizens do not welcome the autumn and winter practically on the street. It's your HDZ and that's Milan Bandic. It is a shame that HDZ is more thinking about its chairs, about parliamentary elections than about helping the citizens of the city of Zagreb. We have to punish them in the election, we have to show them that what they're doing is pig shit. That what Prime Minister Plenkovic is doing in such a staunch way, that it is invisible, even in the Republic of Croatia, and beyond, the Prime Minister who comes to call, discuss with opposition MPs who are the only thing they want, that they can say something live to the mayor and his administration that does nothing. Imagine what their crime is. They want to make it clear and loud about what is wrong and clear and loud about what they would do. On the other hand, Bandića protects Plenkovic because he enjoys his corrupt fruits, his authorities for 3 and a few years in the city of Zagreb and almost 4 in the Republic of Croatia. Unfortunately, we have this in the city of Zagreb today, unfortunately we will have to fight it in parliamentary elections because unless the government changes, unless Plenkovic changes, Bandic will remain calm and calm. Protected from criminal questioning and from doing nothing. The partners of the faithful Bandic and Plenkovic will continue to destroy Zagreb further. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180789	Since we are all those who have applied for a position on behalf of the club here, I suggest that we take the stand immediately, so first of all, the respected representative Karolina Leakovic will speak on behalf of the SDP. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180790	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I would like to warn in these next few minutes about the behaviour of the Rector of the Zagreb University of Damir Boras, his autocratic and arbitrary management of the University of Zagreb. In fact, the Senate of the University of Zagreb, according to the directive of the Rector Damir Boras, refused to confirm Neven Jovanovic, a candidate who had already been voted by the Faculty of Philosophy in February. The session of the Senate at the University of Zagreb, which was decided on, was held in inappropriate circumstances, members and members of the Senate could only manifest themselves on the proposal for a decision on short-term consent only by e-mail, without the possibility of asking questions, without the possibility of debate and without the possibility of actually showing the motion itself on such a rector's proposal for a decision. Moreover, the programme of candidates for the dean was not even delivered to them within the appropriate time limit, the reason for such a decision was delivered to the Senate only a few hours before the session, although of course he had two months. However, on the side of the administrative procedure and organisational failures of the rectors and Senates, which are evident and are actually referred to by the Croatian not only academic public this week and last. In this case, as in some before, a democratic procedure has been suspended at Zagreb University. The University Senate does not decide transparently, publicly and reasonedly. The university rector manages its trustees as if it were his private property, not the public goods and the largest and most significant Croatian university. The mandate of the rector Boras will be remembered, or the mandates of the rector Boras will be remembered by a series of controversial decisions, such as the award of honorary doctorate Dragan Covic, the proposal of the Honorary Doctor Milan Bandic, the award of honorary title of Professor Emeritus Vlatko Previsic and a number of other decisions, and most of all by his attempts, repeated attempts to humiliate one of the members of the university, and this is the Faculty of Philosophy, which he was also a dean to whom neither he nor his trustees have ever succeeded. That's why this is causing a crisis, and that's why you're trying to take over the Faculty of Philosophy. The Rector Boras is obviously personally accounting with the Philosophy, disabling this institution autonomy in the choice of leadership and the way they are managed and not touching the fundamental postulates of academic freedoms and independence. The Rector obviously with Philosophy, with his workers, with his students and students has unexplained accounts and goes back to the time of the 2009 student blockade when students and teachers protested for commercialising higher education, Boras was of course on the other side. In 2016, when he was already a rector, he failed to join the Faculty of Philosophy and Catholic-Godology because even then teachers and students in Philosophy stood up against such a plan. Today, after the rector again makes it impossible for them to decide on the leadership but also on the direction of university development, students and employees are once again unique in the view that the humiliation of the Philosophy and the imposition of the will of the rector in the vengeful campaign will not pass. Mr. Boras' rectorial mandate was written long and wide, and the occasion was averted, every next decision by the Senate and the rector is only more questionable and embarrassing than the previous one. The University of Zagreb runs a person whose personal interests, financial interests, human resources, networking and advocacy are ahead of the interests of scientific honesty, professionalism, ethics, public goods and truth. The Rector Boras privatized the public good of the University of Zagreb. What the Rector Boras can't privatize and that's the Faculty of Philosophy and what he can't subjugate his teachers and his students, he wants to degrade, humiliate and, of course, destroy. That is why I, from this pay phone in the Croatian Parliament, use this opportunity to invite the Croatian public, academic community, students and students, citizens and citizens to resist such self-will as any other self-will of any other usurper of public goods together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180791	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180792	Now it's the SDP and counterpart Arsen Bauk's Club of Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180793	Dear President, dear colleagues and colleagues, the situation on the island of Brač reminded us that there is a thin line between the Covid free zone and the hotspot. So, there's only one little relaxation, regardless of what happened in KBC Split where they fired the patient, and they didn't test him who then came in close contact with a relative who cared about him, and then the infection spread to the number 41 yesterday and another 120 tests that, for which we didn't get the result, and as they keep me informed from Brač, there was suddenly a lack of transparency of the Department of Public Health of the County so that they no longer publish these partial results. This thin line is also shown on another example. Two months ago, all politicians said it would be what the profession says, it would be what the profession determines. The profession has set a little more stringent measures and politics has repeated that. The profession said that those who are in self-insulating are out of Malta not bioterrorists, the profession has determined that they are a serious threat to health and have begun to punish them by the basis of the law and the profession has determined many things. And then the party remembered that we should go to the election and witness the daily abuse of the profession by the party at 14 o'clock. When people from the profession have to answer political questions the way the party imagined. Then more people in self-insulation aren't bioterrorists than just those who didn't get sick, so they can go to the polls if that's what they're gonna do. Then the party said no one was to blame in that home in Split, so the waist had to say it was the virus. Then the party said it shouldn't work on Sundays, so it's an epidemiological measure Sunday. And a lot of things the party said that the waist had to confirm. I'll repeat at 2:00 a.m. every day we testify to the abuse of the profession by the party. It will be as the waist decides it will be as the party decides, and the fact that it should have been the policy we proposed when the Law on the Protection of the public against infectious diseases was passed. We proposed that the headquarters's powers be given to the government, because all decisions to be made since then are political decisions. The balance between economic activities that enhance or improve a slightly more free regime and measures that prevent the spread of viruses which, of course, favour a somewhat stricter regime. That balance is a political, not a professional, not a health decision. At least we know that. That is why we bear witness that every day it is irretrievably destroying the authority of the people who defend political decisions in front of the profession. Since they are not eternal in political speech, they slowly turn into clowns who have to explain each sentence four times. Why did you bring them to such a situation by your colleagues of HDZ? You should have done what every athlete does at the top of his career. When you changed the Law on the Protection of the public against infectious diseases, you put the Staff in advisory function and enforcement, and the Government in those making decisions. This is how people who have enjoyed the confidence of citizens lose their trust slowly but irrevocably, and the greatest danger is that both the logical and good decisions that the headquarters makes to make people look at them with contempt because they consider them political decisions. In the name of the health of all of us, I call upon the party to stop abusing the profession. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180794	Now it's Mrs. Devereaux's turn. Sabina Vosovac, who will be the position of the SDP Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180795	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of HS, dear colleagues and colleagues. The only concern to this government is that as soon as possible, the positive perceptions of citizens related to the work of the National Staff and the Government of the Republic of Croatia in this crisis and on this wave, organise the elections as soon as possible. All other decisions are collateral victims of preparations for elections, as well as parents, students, and especially graduates. Fiasco for the fiasco. The first fiasco decision to return to school where we saw that somewhere around 2% of parents only told the government that, we believe in you because you can guarantee us safety for normalising education processes at our school and safety, our children's health security. So, on that exam, the government fell completely. The next decision he gets into is a post-poo state graduation. On 8 June, the Government of the Republic of Croatia decided that Plenkovic and Divjak would begin their graduation by passing the first exam in a row. It's the 25th day until the state's graduation, exactly 17 working days until the first state graduation exam. Come on, thank God after 2 months you finally know what students lay down even though they were kept in suspense, know when they are and that's at least something that took two months of suspense to come out with this information, complete confusion, holding graduates and parents in suspense, driving them crazy. Now everything's in school. HZZ's instructions are also known under which conditions the graduation will be written. Completely different conditions, a major challenge for directors, test coordinators, teachers and teachers who will be on duty at the State Graduation exams, for children and for parents. Thus, in these instructions published on 8 May on 4 pages of HZJZ, among other things, it says that the State's graduation cannot be accessed by an access to a self-insulation measure and the COVID infection has been identified. Not only that, students who will be able to enter the building and join the state prom will have to sign the following statement, similar to what parents had to sign when they wanted to transfer responsibility to them to send their children to school, and in a statement they will have to enter the room, into the school building, access to state graduation, content says HZJZ, name, last name, must specify the class department that attends the OIB. Among other things, they have to sign the following, I declare that I do not have signs of acute respiratory disease that may include fever, cough, difficulty breathing, smell and taste disorders, and I declare that I will not be able to access the state graduate exams if I have these symptoms during the exams. Also, I declare that I am not prescribed a measure of self-insulation, that I have no knowledge that I am infected/infected with a new coronary virus and that I will not access the exams of the state's graduation if I am told a measure of self-insulation or if I am aware that I am infected, infected with a new coronary virus at the time of the exam. It was published on May 8th. Just 3 days after Mr. Capak's press conference on 11 May, he declares the following about seniors and self-insulation. So they're asked here to sign that they're not in self-insulation, or those who are in self-insulation can't go to the state's graduation exams, and 3 days after he cancels what was said and published in the official instructions of HZJZ and says that people in self-insulation are not sick but were in contact, so they're at increased risk, it's a reservoir from which they recruit more positively. I don't think it's a problem that they vote remotely, but if they put on a mask and have no symptoms, they'll be able to vote. And today we had a debate about graduation. Well, kids who are in self-insulation could do the same with a mask to write a prom. Come on, people, make a deal. Come on, be normal, be responsible, and make a deal. So it's only when you think you've established clear rules, that you've relieved the graduates of uncertainty that you're doing the circus again. Can children who are in self-insulation go to prom or can't go to prom? Should they follow the instructions you prescribed on May 8th or what you said at the press conference on May 11th?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180796	Thank you very much. Now it's Mr. Peja Grbin's turn to be a representative of the SDP Club's position, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180798	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I intended to start this position in a completely different way, but after Mr Raguž's speech from the HDZ Representatives' Club, I was forced to look back on the same thing. Everyone who listened to that speech is probably amazed by what they heard and not, respected colleagues and colleagues, it is not a return to the past because what Mr. Raguž announced is a dark future that HDZ has threatened the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. I guess by the example of his partners from the Fidesz party, Orbano's party in Hungary who these days arrests the opposition who dares to write negatively about it, HDZ has announced that all of us who are Ustashas will be war criminals and that in Bleiburg there were exactly those Ustashas, so war crimes, for all of us, we are destined to be punished. I guess that's the electoral program HDZ plans to go to elections with this year 2020, but we have to say one decisive no. And after this necessary depression, I'm going back on the subject, which may be why HDZ's playing these embarrassing suggestions. Probably because he doesn't want to hear about what's going on in Croatia today. It is likely that everyone who monitors the support knows that from the start of HDZ has sent a message that the employer may pay less than he has received from the state for the worker. So the state will pay the worker 4 grand, the employer for the worker 4 thousand kuna, and then she doesn't care how many of those 4 thousand kunas will come to the worker. However, respected colleagues and colleagues, HDZ today decided to move forward. Today, he sent a message that not only can workers be paid less than the state gives for the worker, but it is a job message that employers are allowed to fire those workers for whom they received support. There's a question on HZZ's pages. Can employers who received compensation, support for workers for March 2020 and fire the same workers on 1st of April 2020? HZZ response is possible. There are no sanctions for the above mentioned. I can fire. From day one, we have pointed out a major problem with this measure because it does not help workers. It helps employers, and we don't have any problem with helping employers to preserve jobs, but if you, if you prescribe that these support workers can be fired, then respected colleagues and colleagues, there's no talking about preserving jobs. This is unfortunately another measure that the HDZ has shown that it is unable to run the Republic of Croatia, that it does not understand the economy and what is worst, that workers and workers of Croatia care. Mr. Aladrovic, the resolute minister of the past days has feared those who pay dividends and receive support. Since the first day of this measure, we've warned him of this problem, but it must have taken him two months to figure it out. However, this is colleagues and colleagues far worse than that. This clearly sends a message, you take the money, and for the workers, who cares. Because if you can get support and then fire the workers, then that job-preserving thing has nothing to do with it. And you know what the worst part is? Where did the money come from for that measure? Out of the 500 million kunas that were intended to help disabled people to be employed, to find a job, this was meant for the money that today ended with those who fired workers or those who as closed bookshops indeed, but do not really create any special added value. At first, we knew that the measures the HDZ was taking had no criteria, but this is even worse than that. This is an indication that there are no criteria for the payment of strong millions from the state budget, but that there is no concern about the consequences of such behaviour for Croatian workers... Thank you. [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180799	Excuse me, time. Mr. Ragug has committed a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Excuse me, time. Mr. Ragug has committed a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180801	Article 238. Comrade Grbin, you have shown by referring to my free speech that the SDP is not at the level of European democratic parties that have shown by adopting a resolution in the European Parliament that have the same attitude towards crimes and communism and fascism. If you justify crimes against captured Croatian soldiers and civilians for tens of thousands, you accept genocide against the Croatian people.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180802	Thank you. The breach of the Rules of Procedure is not because, it has not been considered. 238, as you said, no other article, but this one I gave you the opportunity to say what you think, as I'm going to give the opportunity to say what he means by hurting Mr. Peggy Grbino's Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180803	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague was injured by an officer. 238, he deeply insulted me and the party I belong to. The SDP and I have always personally condemned crimes, always, always without exception. However, what you have announced is not a condemnation of crime, it is an announcement of the persecution of those who question the character of the Ustasha regime and those who are before 75. ran off with their heads, no matter what, from Zagreb, wearing that gold. Dear colleagues and colleagues, what you said has nothing to do with the connection and just get out of what you did earlier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180804	Dear Representative Arsen Bauk will present the position of the SDP Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180805	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. At the end of World War II across Europe, there was mass revenge on the Nazis and their helpers, from which France was not immune. The right-wings claimed that at the end of the war without trial, 105,000 collaborators were liquidated, while de Gaulle confessed only 10842 executions without a court ruling, leaving his words remembered, the figure is painful, but limited in view of the terrible crimes they committed and their consequences. The subsequent evaluations of French historians confirm a figure of at least 50,000 Nazi associates were executed without a court ruling. In Yugoslavia, what happened elsewhere in Europe happened at the end of World War II. There was complete lawlessness, lawlessness, of course, with the knowledge and permission of the new regime at the time of vengeance and reckless killing of prisoners and collaborators. And elsewhere, after World War II, there have been terrifying crimes. More than 10 million Germans were exiled from Eastern European countries after Hitler's defeat. There have been cases of ethnic cleansing. Several hundred thousand Jews who survived the war were exiled from Eastern Europe. The Poles chased the Ukrainians, the Ukrainians of the Poles, the Russians exiled the Finnishs, the Slovaks and the Romanians Hungarians, the Bulgarians chased their Turks, the Greeks chased the Albanians away. The Yugoslav Italians also say. In that post-war vengeful orgy, there have been liquidations of defeated forces that have never been sanctioned, and only with us has it become genocide over the disarmed Croatian people. The answer is simple. Whatever the major crime of the winner is, then it's supposed to be a minor crime of collaborators, no matter what the greater victim of post-war liquidations, it's easier to turn criminals into victims. Then these two crimes, co-laborationist and communist, are easier to level, and then their collaboration becomes more acceptable. Regardless of all attempts at relativisation, we must not be the ones to deny the crimes that occurred after World War II. It's 18 today. Since the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia and SDP's first president, Ivica Racan, came to Bleiburg for the first time. I'll read what he said about that anniversary. Maybe he'd say some different expressions, but it'd be the same. Today I express my condolences and regret for Bleiburg. If it wasn't for those who had to do it over and over again, it was for us, even though at the time of the evil of Bleiburg and Jasenovac we were neither born nor born. We cannot change the past, we cannot even calm all those who participated in past bloody conflicts, but it is very important that yesterday's conflicts do not encourage new and current conflicts, it is very important that yesterday's hatred is not passed on to new generations whether we want to preserve and preserve democratic Croatia. Today's Croatia condemns every crime precisely because it is built on the foundations of democracy and antifascism of a decisive rejection of every extremism in the name of which the crimes of every policy, every totalitarianism, left and right, red or black are committed. The Bleiburg accident and the crossroad is huge. We should remember her as a warning. Bleiburg is a warning and testimony to a crime that cannot be repeated. So right here I want to repeat once again how important it is to respect human rights, human lives, and to endure understanding, tolerance and peace. Imprisonment, 12 / 15 May 2020 Bleiburg. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180806	The next club of MPs will be the SDP on behalf of which the respected representative Gordan Maras will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180807	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'm going to use a slightly more unusual expression today, and I'm going to give the last speech from Rock Opera "Lobec-Bag" or his swearing sword where people who are oppressed, who are left behind, are saying they're going to rise up and achieve their freedom. On this side it is embarrassing for colleagues and colleagues, which today on the most embarrassing day of HS Prime Minister Plenkovic to flee from the citizens of the City of Zagreb to the back entrance and try to disband HS before bringing... /The speakers speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180808	I'm sorry. Is that somebody's cell phone ringing and distracting the esteemed representative, Maras?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180809	It doesn't bother me. I want to talk about this is an oath to Croatian citizens, today is not the end, today is just the beginning. We'll drive the thieves away, and we'll make those who left you hanging. We won't let you down. The tokens that helped HDZ do Zagreb will not see the Parliament in the next session and believe me, the HDZ and the mayor Bandic will pay the citizens of the City of Zagreb a political price for what they did to Zagreb. Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs, today tens of thousands of our citizens do not know where to sleep, do not know how to restore their apartments, and HDZ and Prime Minister Plenkovic chose their chairs. All those who today support the disbandment of the Parliament have chosen their chairs, not those who need help. See what the capital looks like after 60 days of earthquake, the city center full of bricks, full of silence. Shame on you. You betrayed Zagreb. You have no right or responsibility to represent the construction of the City of Zagreb anymore, but you can also see that the citizens of Croatia would treat them if such an accident happened to them. It's a shame you haven't done anything for 60 days. Today we have heard litany, thanks, what are the representatives who support HDZ here to thank, which voters should be sending messages to? That for four years they allowed an unlegal government to lead the Republic of Croatia, to do everything in their power to keep their chairs. When Agrokor's law was to be passed, when Martina Dalic was to incriminate her friends, the law was passed in ten days, when 20, 30,000 Zagreb law was not available for 60 days and the message is here for HDZ to wait. I'm ashamed to be part nine. I call on HS and apologize to all citizens of Zagreb and Zagreb for being part of this circus, Andrej Plenkovic. We will do everything for the next two months until parliamentary elections so that they no longer decide in the Republic of Croatia, that such as those such as Hungarians who have betrayed their voters, like those who have been among them from the beginning, is a lot of representatives who are now part of the Milan Bandic club who support those who have done nothing for the citizens of the City of Zagreb. And so at the end of once again, this session, this day is not the end, this is the beginning of a change in the Republic of Croatia. We will change those whose only interest is in their chair and who don't care at all about those who need help, and we need to help many citizens and blocked and protected tenants and those who have been killed in the earthquake and those who have lost their jobs and those who have done so should be helped. Croatia needs a reboot and I hope that for this reboot of colleagues and colleagues, dear fellow citizens and fellow citizens we will have your support. We're not gonna end up here, and like the leper-ass says in this dental floss. We'll charge you for all that. Zagreb won't forgive you for that. Thank you very much, and I wish you every good, and I hope you can sleep peacefully after this day and you, Mr. Radin. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180810	Mr. Nenad Stazic, it will be the position of the Club of Representatives of the SDP, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180811	... So the murders happen, they happen, and it's still going to happen, it's impossible to prevent. [[Specially enabled.]] [[/Intruder Radin: A microphone. Okay, she's fine now.]] But that murder that took place in Split four days ago must be deeply concerned. One 25-year-old young man killed three people. What came after that murder? The eruption of mass enthusiasm on social networks. He is celebrated as a brave man, a determined man who fights for justice, who has the courage to take justice into his own hands and 3 dealers forever removed from the street of Split. One of those killed 16 years ago, an eight-year-old girl was killed by a motorcycle. He ran away from the scene, and that's why he got, you know, three years in prison. This support is not only declarative, it collects and money to pay for his defense. All of this is one testimony to the deep and possibly irreversible sunflower of the Republic of Croatia. The institutions of the state have lost all credibility. You don't trust anyone, you don't trust the police, you don't trust the courts, you don't trust the government, you don't trust the Parliament, you don't trust the presidents of the Republic, in one word, you don't trust anyone. And how can they be trusted? Kalashnikov is bought as a commodity of broad consumption. When the Split police asked how this young man managed to get a Kalashnikov, they said, you know, the country came out of the war. Well, yeah, she got out of the war, but she got out of the war in '95. Sir, and we're in 2020, so what were they doing all those years? We are in a land where embarrassing examples become desirable examples. Prewar accordionists and central heating motifs are now oil magnets. Drug dealers, prominent inauguration officials, are now the rejected presidents. A terrorist supports her candidacy, and the prime minister is silent about it. People are desperate. What's left of them? Life in fear, silence, constant withdrawal from criminal powers or desperate taking justice into your own hands? Well, everyone in Split knew and knew who the drug dealers were, except for the police. They've been terrorised by Split for years, and the institutions are silent. Who should I blame? A fire with the killer's name coming out before the police? Who should be blamed, Bozinovica, who is not even trying to find out why the police didn't do their job in time. Whom to blame, Plenkovica, who answers everything once and for all the same lies, institutions are doing their job, and this government is successful. Whom to blame, Grabar – Kitarovic, whose best society has been criminals since the start of the mandate, is her loss of choice as proof that the people have had enough. Blame people on social networks who become nervous and classify themselves with the killer because they think it's better than Durats pushing crime and the misery of the state. The last is the time for those who have the power to make something, to stop, but listening to today's prime minister to whom honey and milk flow, who doesn't see blood flowing through the streets, that misery, that people sink into despair, can hardly expect anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180812	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, by whom? And Mr. Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180813	Thank you very much, then the breach of the Rules of Procedure, Art. 238nd fellow Stazic will not say that he said that '45. In Bleiburg, he didn't finish his job, and he also called for murder.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180814	Thank you very much for your opinion, but it's not an injury...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180815	I think we should all look in the mirror first, what we do and what we do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180816	Thank you very much for your opinion, thank you very much for your opinion, but it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, I won't give you any warning, but you know it's not a violation of the Rules of Procedure, it's a debate, discuss it whenever you want.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180817	The next club of MPs will be the SDP on behalf of which the respected representative Sabina Vosovac will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180818	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Here today, Minister Divjak remains Minister of Education and Science by decision of the Croatian Parliament. I don't trust anyone who knows politics a bit. Following political movements didn't surprise them too much. The minister is a product of the trade coalition, as she came to the post of minister, so today she is the minister and remains. As long as it's a trade coalition, there'll be ministers. There is one such handsome quote on social networks that has spread in recent days that says, this is one photograph of Prime Minister Plenkovic and the minister and says there is no love, we stay married because of children. So in this coalition, there is no mutual trust, there is no co-ordination, there is unfortunately no benefit for both the education system and the Croatian society, but there is a strong desire and strong interest in the preservation of the existing coalition. However, despite the fact that Minister Divjak remains a minister, I would today use this time to ask her on behalf of teachers, teachers, parents and children to receive better quality pills in this second wave of procurement, which will not have any cameras, which will be able to access digital content. I also ask her to start fighting for legality in the system of higher education and science and to put an end to the lawlessness that is happening on certain institutions in that segment. I would also ask her to pass the Law on Scientific Activity and Higher Education and the Quality Insurance Act, which needs to improve this system of higher education and science, and in her plan of normative activities, the Government finds it to be passed, that these laws will be passed in the last quarter of 2018, she is too late and should focus all her strength on the adoption of these two laws. The Law on Educational Inspection, which was to be passed at the end of 2019, is also of paramount importance for our teachers and teachers especially in the part where anonymous applications against teachers and teachers are very common. They expressed a lot of dissatisfaction at the very protest concerning the law, so let it be hasty, or when it is late with that law, to be passed in this last year of the term of office. The Law on Education and Education, I believe the Minister also knows that, which we brought to the Croatian Parliament a year ago, has brought a number of employment problems in Croatian schools. So by deciding through this law that each school determines its criteria for hiring teachers and teachers, as well as commissions that will deploy technological surpluses, not that it has weakened the impact of policies on school employment but has actually provided one mechanism for policy through specific criteria, allowing certain candidates to be employed under its law by those who are desirable and who are relevant to politics. I think that's something to deal with. It is now seen in these years that this law is extremely dangerous. The criteria need to be unified, not allowed to be adapted by everyone to candidates they want to hire, these are dangerous things. We should seek to depolitise in the employment system of educational workers, not politicisation and policy influence to strengthen what she has done with her law. What I sincerely hope is that our money will be spent more transparently, that they will give up setting up competitions for directors of management and advisors in the cabinet of ministers. We will closely monitor, she has conducted the tender, has not appointed directors and advisors, she has probably waited for this appeal to go through, but it is really challenging to choose the people who have been assistants so far to become directors of the administration and those people who will become her advisors in the cabinet. Just because we failed doesn't mean we were wrong, the opposition reminds me I will seek the recall of Minister Barisic, Minister Dalic, Minister Kuscevic, Tolusic, Maric and Žalac All of you here voted to stay, and in the end they had to leave. [[Thank you, thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180819	We're going to the 9th debate, the SDP Representatives Club, dear colleague Gordan Maras, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180820	Thank you, dear colleague and colleague, it's Wednesday, it's January 22, 2020. and rather than in his post in Stjepan Square, Radić, the mayor of the City of Zagreb, spends time on Zrinjevac answering the question of whether or not he feels guilty about one of the series of affairs in which he is involved and for which there are powerful indictments in the court and for which he should be held before Croatian courts and finally and before Croatian citizens whenever they are next. What we see in the past few days is that our justice system which is the cancer of the wounds, I would say, the whole of our society does not do things fast enough to do, so after 10 years, only a confirmed indictment in the City of Zagreb against also members of the City of Zagreb's Headship for damage to the city of 151 million kuna in the Krashograd affair, means the judiciary is on the one hand acting up to ordinary citizens, and to those powers that abuse citizens' trust as is evident in the City of Zagreb, the affairs last years, and even decades and so on the other hand, the question is why and why and until when will we tolerate such things as a society. It is certainly because the mayor Bandic has a large backdrop of HDZ and the unspeakable support of HDZ and Prime Minister Plenkovic both at the state and local level because if it were not for a long time we would have elections in the City of Zagreb and the mayor of Bandic would no longer be mayor, he is the only mayor because of what HDZ supports him. On the other hand, the question arises how our society works and I here are the public, and I would tell those who are following what is happening in our city, in our judicial bodies, I am giving one topic, ask how many people from USKOK and DORH have been employed in the City of Zagreb, to see how things work and how Mayor Bandić buys public influence and money defacto this slow process and in some way protection against persecution for intransparent and for me inadmissible management of the City of Zagreb. Let's see how many DORH people have changed employers to the City Administration in the City of Zagreb, and then some things will be clear to you, how much of this together is intertwined and how unfortunately these things work in the Republic of Zagreb and the City of Zagreb. And the last case where the unspeakable support of HDZ is seen is the case where 20 MPs in the City Assembly at the SDP initiative have submitted a proposal to the City Assembly to call an advisory referendum or local referendum of citizens of the City of Zagreb on changes and additions to the GUP where citizens would decide whether they want these changes of the GUP that push HDZ and Bandic to force through the City Assembly, which have received more than 30,000 objections against which the profession and all those who are dealing with planning space in the City of Zagreb, we gave the possibility to the Assembly to call and behold miracles, HDZ is not for that, they are still against it or are still not wise to declare and ask themselves what they will decide to do to the City Assembly themselves and when you see the HDZ vote in this assembly, which is why the mayor Bandic is still not to be the mayor of the city and his own interest in the state of the city. Of course, it will come to an end when the elections come because I no longer see in any film the possibility of Mayor Bandic getting a new mandate and with him HDZ in the city of Zagreb. My colleagues and colleagues, let us all ask ourselves why this situation is, which is why people feel wrong and why people are angry at this corruption and such management of the main The city of Republic of [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180821	The next club of MPs was supposed to be the Club of Croatian Sovereigns and Independent Representatives Zeljko Glasnović and Zlatko Hasanbegovic, but he is not here, so the next club will be the SDP on behalf of the respected representative Romana Jerkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180822	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, an example that clearly shows how things work in the Republic of Croatia and how dysfunctional state institutions and those who run them are, I have already spoken. I was talking about a typical Croatian story and how politics at all levels, starting from one local across the region to the state, can be deaf and blind to the interests and needs of its citizens, so that it can be a stepmother to those whose interests should be represented, defended and for whom it should be fought. I was talking about the Peljesac peninsula, about the town of House and Perna, which belongs to the municipality of Orebić. I was talking about the need to move the ferry port from the center of Orebić somewhere else and about the need to build a new ferry port. The new port should have been built long ago because the old one is not the place in the heart of Orebic, everyone knows it. Someone decided that the place for the new port is right on Perna, they say there is no better solution, well let's just say that it doesn't matter that Perna is one of the most beautiful parts of the southern side of the Peljesac peninsula and that we all consider it the Golden War, the Peljesna Golden War. It doesn't matter that people who live there use the only resources they have, which is the sea, it's the sun and it's the beautiful coast, it's the source of their income and their existence, that's how they feed their children, that's how they train them and take their tourism, you took their lives. Let's just say it doesn't matter that the Peljesko-Korčula Channel is famous in the world frameworks surfing on board and being there windsurfing and whating schools. Let's just say it doesn't matter that we have about 600 beds in our households today, several restaurants, hotels, camps and other catering facilities. Let's just say it doesn't matter that for 10 years the state has been doing nothing, but it allows young people to live there, to start their families, to be in charge of banks, to get a boost from the state from the European funds, to allow the development of tourism infrastructure, to allow construction. Let's just say it doesn't matter that the construction of a ferry port is planned within the Commodore tourist complex. So what now? Now, on Perna it is planned to build a ferry port in the length of 220 meters with 3 ramps, and it comes 6 meters from the houses where people live and rent tourists. Look, people living down there are fighting for their existence and their children's existence, they're left to the mercy of a ruthless policy that doesn't care about people's interests. They prayed, called for conversation, for dialogue, for agreement, not against development, not against ferry ports, they just ask questions and it's very logical. They ask why concreteize the 220 meters of beaches that we live on? Why come 6 meters from under our houses? Why do you need 3 ferry ramps? And I'm asking two more questions here publicly. Why doesn't he listen to them? And why won't anyone take them? In the meantime, beware of this, the Administrative Court in Split reached a verdict in favour of the Local Committee of the House, the Ministry of Environmental Protection, which sued them, claimed that there was no need to carry out an environmental impact assessment procedure. Is it possible that they did not know? Well, not that they knew, but they thought they'd get away with it. And more amazingly, in that same dispute that Kuciste's Local Committee won, and the ministry lost port administration and the Ministry of Environment lie and the planned port of Perna is more than 3,000 metres away from the old town of Korčula. Which is not true, it is 1,300 meters away, which is protected as a historical heritage, so the planned port on Perna falls into the contact zone of the historic part of the old town of Korčula. So it's not just about the existence of people living downstairs, but about the state tourist complex Commodore, but also about the irrevocable insult of the historical whole. All these people from the House are looking for is a change and an addition to the urban plan, asking them to sit at the table, to talk, to change the plan, to reduce the ferry port, not to be 3 ramps. What they're looking for isn't impossible, what they're looking for isn't crazy, what they're looking for is quite understandable and logical, they're fighting for their existence. I naively believed that I could help them bring sides of two to the negotiating table, I believed that I could also invite Minister Butkovic and Mr Branko Bačić, I asked them to sit down with them at the table, talk and agree. But unfortunately politics is something else, politicians are not gods to whom it is impossible Come, and unfortunately many behave like that. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180823	8th debate of SDP MPs, respected colleague Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180824	I thank the Honorable President of the Parliament. There was an outrageous, unprecedented pig scandal yesterday in Croatia. The Zagreb Centre for Social Care rejected the request of the same-sex couple Ivo Šego and Mladen Kožić for the adoption of the child. That was allowed by some guy named Tatjana Brozić Peric, the head of the center. She allowed herself this despite the judgment of the Administrative Court. The woman doesn't respect the court's decisions, she thinks she's above the court, she thinks she's above the law, and she allows herself not to appease the court's judgment. It is a crime and if we were some kind of state, but at least some kind of state, that certain Tatjana Brozić Peric, by this morning at eight o'clock in the morning, would no longer be in that place, she would be removed, she would be evicted because she does not respect the court's decision. Who was supposed to do that? Vesna Bedeković Minister of Resorna. Now what are we gonna wait for? To send me, I don't know, the 9th, 10th request to be replaced by the Minister here now, this Ms. Minister Vesna Bedekovic, because it allows such scandals to happen in her portfolio that some boss, some welfare center, allows herself to disobey the laws. That's what we settle for with Belarus and Moldova. The practice of fostering a child in homosexual couples exists naturally in Spain, Austria, Germany and Great Britain, we now chair the EU Council and instead of being an example of advanced countries, open countries for us some Tatjana Brozić Peric sets the pace and drags us into the Middle Ages. Well, that can only be compared to what Zekanovic was saying here who doesn't understand that laws must be respected because it determines the Constitution that attacks homosexual couples here, registered partnership and that would be dealt with in the most cruel way. Hitler came up with a solution for them, sent them to concentration camps, Zekonovic would obviously want the practice to continue in Croatia. Well, he won't, he won't, while the SDP here won't. We will raise our voice against both Zekanovic and Tatjana Brozić Peric and against her Minister Vesna Bedekovic who is doing nothing. So that Tatjana Brozić Peric did not prohibit children, young children without adult escorts from going to the church because they are threatened by more danger than the popovic pedophilia than by fostering gay couples. Well, that'd be kind of a child-care thing. Does this woman even know what the child care about? Eight SDP ministers asked for eight ministers to be replaced and replaced, it was replaced after Plenkovic defended them, this is the 14th in a row that has been replaced, almost the entire government. They don't know how to fill out a card. They don't know how to fill out an estate card. We all have to fulfill it because we are officials, it is a very simple procedure, it is done via the Internet, it would make a child in elementary school can do it, it I am convinced that even Tatjana Brozić Perić would do it despite these decisions, but it is not successful by Plenkovic's ministers. So I wonder Mr. President, can you find at least one minister who's written? [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180825	Now we're going to the ninth debate, the SDP Representatives Club, the esteemed colleague Gordan Maras, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180826	Thank you very much. My colleagues and fellow MPs, respected citizens. On February 1st this year, in the main square of Zagreb, there was a big rally under the motto "Enough Is" and over 20,000 of our citizens in the city of Zagreb came to express dissatisfaction with the current authority in the city of Zagreb, Mayor M. Bandic and HDZ, who has been backing for over 3 years because of what Bandic counter-services return to the Croatian Parliament through the chips of Mr. Plenkovic peace until the end of the term, but the citizens no longer have patience, no longer have the will or desire to watch this kind of trade, and I am convinced that every new protest in the city of Zagreb that will continue for the coming months, there will be more and more and more of our citizens. People no longer want to suffer haughtiness, thieving, intransparency and want to show their activists, going out to the streets regardless of the parties, politics and that politician in the city of Zagreb, they want to say they are not satisfied. They want to be able to tell again what kind of city Zagreb and what authority in the city of Zagreb they want and do not want irresponsible politicians to spend their time, money and sell out their space. There are two crucial things that happened last week that will happen tomorrow at the City Hall. One is that the Constitutional Court, on the proposal of the SDP Representatives Club, abolished the shameful decision and regulation of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which allows the collection for the double-delivery of municipal waste. It is great that the Constitutional Court has realized how harmful this is, how much it can bring negative consequences to human health but also to the home budgets of our citizens and citizens throughout Croatia and has decided to promote this decision and promote it carefully and make a final decision in some recent time. So the good news is that for February and the coming months in all the cities of the Republic of Croatia, as well as in the city of Zagreb, they will not collect waste directed by the mayors Bandic and HDZ for twice as long as it was necessary to collect it. The second thing, tomorrow is the City Assembly and the country's kidnapping is being prepared for the citizens of Zagreb, the famous GUP and the hypodrom, and here I ask that HDZ finally one day before the assembly says what it will do because without the HDZ support of Bandic there is no GUP. Without HDZ holding the Bandic stand, there is no looting of the city of Zagreb. Is it worth Mr. Plenkovic's six months? The term of office of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to destroy the space in the city of Zagreb and allow these mules who are currently in executive power and you in the assembly, Dr. You support them all the time, whether it's worth the six months. To make such a scandal and make such a hoax in a land robbery? It would be great if at least now, at the end of the term, we could move away and resist this non-transparent and looting management of the city of Zagreb. If you do not want to do so, and the citizens want to change the city of Zagreb, the SDP will send a proposal to the City Assembly to recall the mayor of Zagreb, if HDZ thinks that he is managing the city of Zagreb, will not support this impeachment, and it is possible that the HDZ will continue to insist on keeping Bandic alive, but after that, the SDP will send a proposal to the citizens of Zagreb to launch a referendum on the recall of the mayor Bandic. We don't have time to wait anymore, we're sick of petty scams, HDZ and Bandic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180827	The next Club of Representatives is the SDP on behalf of which the respected representative Sabina Vosovac will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180828	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues, here is the first month of the Croatian Presidency of the EU Council. It is something we are proud of, as Prime Minister Petjesic's office head Mr. Petjesic has said, a great honor, a responsibility, but also an opportunity for Croatia. On the other hand, some officials specifically said the foreign minister the other day why the media, why the Croatian public is dealing with so many affairs stemming from the government that are linked to the ministers, with mahogany related to their property cards and properties. And he said that in fact we should all follow the Croatian presidency a lot more, that he does not understand why we are so engaged in affairs and so little what happens in the Croatian presidency. So let's do her, her turn. So if it is Croatia, and it is certainly a great honor, responsibility and opportunity, I am only interested in why the Government of the Republic of Croatia at the moment when we chair the EU Council, when we have the opportunity to impose some of the topics that are important for Croatia, but also to impose themselves as a responsible and important factor, not only in the region but also in the EU, why is the Government of the Republic of Croatia using this period to humiliate Croatia, to work against Croatian interests. In particular, news came out the other day that the EU will consider reducing air passenger rights at the Croatian Presidency's proposal, thereby making more money to airlines. Which means that an increase in the minimum flight delays of 3 hours should be considered for which passengers may claim compensation. Why is the Government of the Republic of Croatia working in the interests of multinational companies and against Croatian citizens? Why are these the topics we impose? On the side now of the decision in 2017, which has also been revealed recently that the government of the Republic of Croatia has voted against abolishing the compensation for Roma citizens within the EU. Another decision at the expense of Croatian citizens in favour of multinational companies. Why does the Republic of Croatia do that? Why does he behave like that? Third, when the whole world celebrates and solemnly marks 25 years of maintenance 4. The Beijing Women's Congress, which means a key document that adopts a Beijing Platform for Action aimed at empowering women and creating conditions for gender equality. The signatories are as many as 148 countries, and this can be very nicely linked to the Sustainable Development Goals Agenda 2030, where the key global objective number 5 is gender equality, and sub-target 5.6 within that goal actually says that women need to be given access to sexual and sexual and reproductive health, and that they should also work to improve, meaning that same, and the same level of sexual reproductive health. At that moment, the government of the Republic of Croatia not only refuses to comply with these arguments but refuses to fulfil the Constitutional Court's decision tasked it with adopting a new law on interruption, medical interruption, termination of pregnancy. So, we, at the moment when the whole world is marking some important I'm going to say so on the anniversary of the documents that need to raise the standard of medical and health care for women and when we have to fight the regression in terms of the right to abortion, and this very law that we couldn't even discuss yesterday is going into step to meet these globally sustainable goals, the Government of the Republic of Croatia at the moment when we chair simply ignores some global goals, some global documents and works against interest in this case not all Croatian citizens, but certainly against women in the Republic. It's nice to chair but it is even nicer to stick to some standards and goals in the interest of the citizens of the Republic. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180829	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180830	Now it's the SDP's Club of Representatives, dear colleague Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180831	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues. Dear citizens and citizens. I am glad that here on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club they can apostrophe yesterday on 11.2.2020 as one of the most important days in the Republic of Croatia and in the city of Zagreb where citizens managed to win over the bad policy that governs them. Yesterday, in fear of the citizens of the city of Zagreb, the mayor Bandic and HDZ played a small performance and tried to buy time until they thought they would again be able to seize space for the citizens of the city of Zagreb. The fear that has crawled into the bones of Mayor Bandic and HDZ since the loss of the internal elections and then the parliamentary elections, and at the end of the elections for the city of Zagreb, is too great. And therefore the citizens of the city of Zagreb must be aware that the pressure must be even stronger because these owners, these not transparent managers of our fates, those who think only about their own interest and the interests of their groups that finance them, support and do things that we don't know at all, are afraid of only losing their choices and your vote that can change them from their positions. And for this reason, everyone must be aware that only by continuing to pressure HDZ and Mayor Bandic can we finally see changes in the city of Zagreb and the Republic of Croatia. Only pressure on this bad, corrupt, commercial, non-transparent policy can change our city of Zagreb and the Republic of Croatia. HDZ and Mayor Bandic didn't change yesterday, they were only scared yesterday. They were afraid of the citizens and should fear the citizens, as they rule in the elections. Can we ensure that the citizens of our country, that the citizens of our city of Zagreb have the authority that deserves their trust, that will work in their interest, that will use all the resources that are available to them to make life in the city of Zagreb better? I'm sure we do. Are we going to use the knowledge of the Association of Architects in the city of Zagreb that offers a different vision of the city and different development of the city of Zagreb? I'm sure we will. Whether we will use all those development opportunities that the city of Zagreb has, whether we will invest more in schools, kindergartens, whether we will invest more in making our citizens feel better every day for themselves and their families, and not for them a few who are making powerful people, and basically not because yesterday they showed that they are afraid of citizens and yesterday is, believe me, 11.2. start of changes in the city of Zagreb that we will bring as soon as possible. We must not allow petty interests to behave in such a way as to satisfy the interests of themselves and those who finance them and support them and who have torn them up over the past few years to enable them to do so. If you look at symbolism, it is the citizens who can bring about change, with the help of those who will speak for them and with the help of those who will act for them and the interest when these changes happen. I'll tell you that every force and every candle can't burn forever. And this candle, not transparency and corruption and crime in the city of Zagreb, will soon be extinguished. Unfortunately, those who are in position now will see how it will go in the elections, and Mayor Bandic, believe me, will end up as some not very famous characters from our Zagreb history. It seems to me that Mayor Bandic will end very much the same way as those who have not worked in the interest of Croatian citizens in the ropin of political history. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180832	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180833	Now, Mr. Nenad Stazic will speak, which will be the position of the SDP Representatives' Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180834	Thank you, dear Vice President. Well, Mr. Jelenic's attorney general had to step down when he was found to be a masseuse. It's okay, the SDP Club has nothing against it, though, so you can't be a member of a secret organization and a top state attorney, that's at least clear. Who are these Masons, what are the Masons, created in the 14th century as masons, and then later turned into some secret or semi-secret society. Their members were very popular people, Walter, Didro, Russo, Igo who introduced education into the Masonery, in Germany they were Goethe, Fichte, Mozart, Beethoven, the Mason was also Churchill, they were priests, the most famous of us bishop Strossmayer. They can't be atheists, they can't be never, they can't be atheists today. The church later moved away from the Masons, probably because of the competition, and one and the other want to influence social events. Here we are witnessing, the Croatian Bishop's Conference every little bit makes a statement about some kind of social problem as if it were their mission. Okay, there's a whole series of organizations that are similar to the Masonic organization, the Rotary and the Lions Clubs, those clubs for rich, and the Doton to gentlemen. Members call each other, not brothers, but friends, mutually helping each other, as they do the Masons. There are church ranks, some as mystic as the masses, they have their rituals, special clothes, hierarchy, their titles. Mason runs the great maester, but the great maester also leads the knights of St. The tomb of Jerusalem. That order came into existence in the Middle Ages, and it is also the vice president of our Parliament, Mr. Zeljko Reiner. One of the tasks of this order of knights is the survival of Christians in the Middle East and the finding of donations to keep those Christians there. That's what the Knight Reiner says. Now, I think Knight Reiner has a problem. He didn't report in the property card that he was a member of that knight order, and secondly, if that's his job, collecting donations and he's really collecting donations for the survival of Christians in the Middle East, is that a trade in influence, if he's as vice president of the Parliament collecting from someone's donation? Well, that should be examined by the Commission for a decision on conflict of interest. Okay, there's a difference between the Mason and the Knights. Knights belong to the Catholic Church, and here, just yesterday, the diocese in Pennsylvania, which belongs to the same Catholic Church, went bankrupt under financial burden over sexual abuse charges. 110 victims, 12 million kunas of compensation should be paid, led by Bishop Roland Gainer, so different, not Reiner, but Gainer. And since the beginning of 2000, 20 Catholic dioceses have declared bankruptcy because of pedophilia. And this one, you see, interestingly, is missing from the Mason. You don't know of any Mason who'd be charged with pedophile. Then which association is more socially dangerous? Why do we allow some officials to be members of an organization, and others not even these potentially more dangerous, socially more dangerous, just because they belong to the Catholic Church? It's not quite acceptable to me. So, we expect from the President of the Parliament, we expect from the prime minister and president of the HDZ, but also primarily from the Committee for the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest to declare this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180835	Here, respected colleagues and colleagues, as announced, are moving forward with a statement of view on behalf of the club of representatives and will speak first on behalf of the SDP's Club of Representatives, the respected representative Bernardic. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 13.25 HOURS]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180836	The Honorable Vice President of HS. This is the second in a row that the ruling majority does not have a majority to vote on. In this way, the second week in a row HS cannot make decisions, Parliament's work is blocked and cannot pass laws that are essential to citizens' lives. On the other hand, this isn't the only institution that's blocked. We testified this week that the DORH had lost his attorney general. The system that should take care of the security of all citizens is now beheaded and cannot adequately care for the security of our country and any actions that need to be taken in terms of corruption and protection of citizens. Therefore, the DORH is another institution where there is a crisis. So there is a crisis in the country of key institutions and no one can control what will happen anymore. We are therefore seeking elections immediately, so that citizens will no longer be hostages of the ruling. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180837	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is the SDP on behalf of which the respected representative Mirela Amedovic will speak, I think for the first time. Right? Here you go, though.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180839	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, fellow MPs and colleagues today, we have the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Gas Market Act, as the proposer claims to avoid distortion of competition in the internal energy market in the EU and negative effects on security of supply. The proposal also argues that the law will increase transparency and provide legal certainty for market participants, particularly investors in gas infrastructure and system users. Well, let's remind ourselves of the transparency that the HDZ government made possible for us in 2009. In addition to the corruption of the management rights over INO Sanader's government in 2009 agreed with the Hungarians to isolate the gas business from the INA, all to the detriment of Croatia and its citizens. Sanader's government also signed a contract under which it committed to buying gas from INE and MOL under very unfavourable conditions. When Croatia tried to give up on it, MOL sued us and asked for compensation in billions of kunas, and then miraculously gave up payment of interest and capital. Since then, the management of the gas business in Croatia has been carried out in accordance with the Hungarian energy strategy, and this government is likely to be managed. The Hungarian strategy consists of three parts. The first was to take gas and oil sources with very favourable concessions and that was settled. Done with the help of Sanader's government. The second was to transfer all processing and production to Hungary, close Croatian refineries. Today Hungary is building a large petrochemical complex that serves final and profitable production, and we have already successfully closed this petrochemical complex in Omislja. Look at the coincidences. The third was to provide more supply routes, which is why they need LNG and maximum benefits in transporting gas and oil through Croatia. Here, now he'll get it from this Croatian government. I remind you that 10 years ago a highway pipeline was built through Lika, for which Plinacro spent more than a billion kunas, and no one joined it. It's a similar situation in Dalmatia. It is obvious who this construction of the gas pipeline from Omis to Zlobin will serve. The Hungarian energy strategy has been successfully implemented. And what does Croatia get? This law allows Hungarians to import Croatian gas from the northern Adriatic, gas from Italy, and the submarine pipeline is ININ, the gas that comes through Austria and Slovenia as well as through LNG terminals and to transport it naturally at the same price. Therefore, when Croatia loses its cheaper gas, which will be used by citizens in Hungary, it will import gas. And finally, the current government will have reason to build a LNG terminal in Omislje, through which it will be able to import the most expensive gas in the world, and this gas will be delivered to it by Hungarians who will manage LNG because the government will also announce it in the lex LNG to them in their possession. And let Croatian citizens think that every coincidence, every similarity of this project with the INA MOL scandal is random. Well, let's do some thinking. It's just amazing how the largest energy project in the Republic of Croatia is currently being implemented by a floating LNG terminal. First, a lex LNG that is contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and to European regulation was adopted, a competition was prevented, a monopoly was assigned to the state supply company LNG until the monopoly was surrendered to Hungary. The floating terminal is built against the provisions of the Omis and Primorje-Gorski County spatial plan, the construction of the terminal is carried out against the project which is explicitly listed and approved in the local building permit. Such practice would certainly not be allowed for any small entrepreneur or privateer, but the state firm is allowed to do so. But that's not enough either. Now Plinacro, also a state-owned company, lays pipeline pipes in the Omislje, along the route drawn in a spatial plan. Why do we need laws, what do we need spatial plans for, what do we care what the Constitution says about the rights of local self-government? From the perspective of small Omis, I am surprised that the Zagrebs are rebelling against the adoption of the urban plan, i.e. the GUP. Whatever plan we have, whoever's in position can absolutely do anything. Whatever's written in the state institution's spatial plan doesn't care, what someone imagined will be done. No wonder we're publicly identified as a country in 126 places and by an independent judiciary. Behind Serbia and Zimbabwe. Finally, I congratulate the Croatian government for so faithfully and consistently helping to implement the energy development strategy but Hungary. I congratulate her for so bravely degraded and ignoring the attitudes of local and regional communities, I congratulate her most of all for faithfully following the example of her former president, Ivo Sanader, and not departing from the pattern that the citizens of this country have become accustomed to.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180840	And the last is, at least for the time being, Mr. Gordan Maras, who will be the representative of the SDP Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180841	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, esteemed citizens, what I wanted to point out here today, and what I think needs to be said, that despite the challenges and crises that are clearly happening in our country and the problems we have with a potential epidemic, life has not stopped and the government should continue to do its job. The government should make laws, the government should offer solutions, the government should make it possible for citizens to live color, the government should have solutions that were here before, which before and my colleagues here have spoken depending on the situation that should be developed, and what is certain is that it should not be that the government does not refer solutions to the assembly that we do not have here debates and that it is simply amazing that at this moment 90 legal solutions of the opposition stand and wait for discussion and procedure, and the Bureau of Parliament or the President of Parliament and those who do not refer to these laws in the procedure. So the government doesn't do anything, period, reference work. The government is occupied and Prime Minister Plenkovic is more occupied today by how many signatures he will bring to HDZ, how these elections will take place in the HDZ in two weeks than our citizens live. The government doesn't do its job, the government doesn't do anything to make citizens better, the government is simply in standby fashion and deals with itself and deals with things within the HDZ, and that's what we just can't let and what we have to warn about. These last months, Plenkovic's government is certainly something that will remain remembered as spending time and as spending money and ultimately as no results. It would be better for Croatia, for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, if the elections were held as soon as possible, before summer so that the new government, the new majority could continue to do their job. Because believe me, this is a lost time, I'm worried about who's going to win the HDZ, whether it's Kovac or Plenkovic, whether it's me who's going to fight there and whether it's Bear or Penava or one of the other colleagues who's running for vice presidents. Croatian citizens have nothing to do with it, Croatian citizens have nothing to do with problems, Croatian citizens have nothing to do with the fact that this bought majority still has six months to pay, Croatian citizens have nothing to do with the fact that more and more of our evictions from the Republic of Croatia every day, that there is no sense of justice and justice in Croatia, and in some ways citizens are leaving the Republic, that we are dealing with the Masons, not the Masons, that is something that certainly means nothing to the citizens. So on that side my call here and our call here is to do something in the interest of Croatian citizens, to try to bring this assembly to an end and to go to elections as soon as possible. Let's see what Croatian citizens also think about those who are bought in this assembly, who are chips, say what citizens think about those who are fighting the past in this assembly and who are the only ones who care about who is what and what it is 30 or 40 or 70 years ago, that Croatian citizens say what they want and how they want to go on. I'm sure they don't want to go on like this, I'm sure the bought coalition, the trade coalition between Mayor Bandic and Prime Minister Plenkovic after these elections will no longer be the one who will have a majority in the Croatian Parliament and will not form a Croatian government, but what we should be in the interest of all is not losing another 6.7 months, because none of them have any of it to get another six salaries here in the Croatian Parliament, and on the other hand, that they do nothing for Croatian citizens and that in some way we see from Friday to Friday that there is not even a majority that would vote the laws that we discuss here in the assembly. Leave the gentlemen of the HDZ Croatian citizens alone, allow them to choose a new power and in some way go into a better perspective and the future especially with regard to decision-making in the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180842	Debate No. 8th Honored colleague Gordan Maras, Club of Representatives of the SDP, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180843	Thank you very much, dear colleagues and colleagues. Today we decided to talk about a subject that is very current and which burdens a very large number of our fellow citizens and after the past few days this unfortunate and, and, and, and, and, a dangerous epidemic of coronaryvirus has reminded that the Republic of Croatia is far from the country of the 21st century, but that it was stuck in the 19th century when we see that in certain educational institutions we don't have the most basic, sufficient amount of basic hygiene supplies, once again one politician for that section believed or not. So, after warning on Monday that there is not enough hygiene material, consumer material, soap, paper towels and all that our children should have in Zagreb, regardless of the epidemic or any epidemic, Mayor Bandic reported that, here I can even quote one amazing thing, it is that he suggested that if there is no soap that children in schools wash their hands with lug or ash, that he did so when he was young and was much healthier than he was now and younger. I'm sure that the ash or lug isn't rejuvenating and, and it doesn't affect health, and I'm sure that this statement is not only bizarre and silly but also dangerous. And here I am sending a very clear message to the mayor, and also to our citizens that we need to put pressure on the city administration to do what is necessary, which is to equip schools and invest in hygienic supplies in schools and kindergartens and do everything in order for our children to have normal conditions at the time of education. What Mayor Bandic said is likely to personify his relationship to his business and money, which he manages on behalf of the citizens of the City of Zagreb. He would remind Mayor Bandić that Zagreb has 10 billion kuna budgets, that it is quite enough to equip educational institutions in one of the most qualitative ways possible for our children to be safe and have the best possible conditions, that the citizens of the City of Zagreb are justifiably insecure and object and that the citizens of the City of Zagreb are not farmers who should just pay taxes and give money in the city register and that the money they pay in the city register is not Bandic's money but is the money of the citizens of Zagreb and the money of the City of Zagreb that should work in the best possible way. So Mr. Mayor lives in one of his worlds and film thinking that the money he manages is basically his money and that he can do whatever he wants with it. I am telling him that he can't, I know that he is aware, another year of office he has, after which he will no longer be mayor, but what I can say, in the next year you are obliged to do what the citizens of the City of Zagreb require. If you require a standard to be created in schools and kindergartens as it should be, then you do it to Mr. Bandic, and you do not send a memo to the directors, you transfer responsibility to them, you ask them to deny what all parents in the City of Zagreb know, and that is that there are not enough hygiene supplies in primary and secondary schools and kindergartens. And then the question arises why this is not possible in the City of Zagreb, which is why we are re-paying services in every item that we can follow every day. Here, yesterday we saw that on Trnjanjska Savica the president of the HDZ Council paid 9.00 kuna over the City of Zagreb, means the brush for, for the 9.00 kn toilet paid more than 300,00 kn, means 40 times more they paid one brush and this is one picture that shows how money is managed and how those who are now in position in the City of Zagreb, which is Mayor Bandić and HDZ managing our money. And here's the end of the messages, Mayor Bandic, wash your hands with the luge, and our children will follow the way they need to be washed and how hygiene should be maintained in the 21st century. And it's with enough hygienic supplies [[Intruder: Thank you]] Do it and listen to your parents instead of making money [[Intruder: Thank you very much, thank you very much, dear colleague Maras]] Can I finish my sentence? [[/Agreement: Comrade Maras, thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180844	You can't, it's been 12 seconds, please leave the pay phone. We're going to the tenth debate, dear colleague Peja Grbin on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180846	I thank you, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Of course, in the fight with the coronary virus, the protection of life and health of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia is first of all, regardless of what certain questions are being asked, such as the question of why Slovenia has far more tests on the coronary virus than Croatia, the SDP provides full support, primarily to Croatian doctors, and then the efforts of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to prevent the spread of this dangerous disease. But in addition to health care, this epidemic has an obvious economic aspect, which, unfortunately, must not be ignored. For example, if we look among other EU Member States and not only Italy, which is the most affected by this disease, and it is obvious that its government is taking the most measures to mitigate the consequences of this disease, for example, Germany or our neighbouring Slovenia have already taken major steps to facilitate their citizens and the economy from the upcoming economic crisis. For example, in Germany, the government has prepared a package of 12 billion-euro measures, and in neighbouring Slovenia a billion euros. On the other hand, the reply of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is unfortunately not as spotted and up-to-date. Minister Maric thus said last night, I repeat, our expectations or hopes are heading towards a hot-time crisis. Such a response by the Minister of Finance does not give me faith that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is now ready, prepared and taking all actions to prevent the economic crisis, and then mitigate its consequences. Dear colleagues and colleagues, my concern must be clear to you. I come from Istria, which is particularly severely affected by the effects of the coronary virus. On the one hand, the Istrian economy is oriented towards tourism, and on the other hand, in the manufacturing sector, it is very focused on business with Italy. However, tourism is the most important economic branch in the entire Republic of Croatia, and Italy is one of our largest foreign trade partners. The crisis in Italy must inevitably be transferred to the Republic of Croatia and we cannot escape from it. That's why aid to the economy is necessary. However, aid to the economy is not enough. In this crisis, we also need to look at the consequences it carries on the citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia. For example, in the area of Istria and the Primorje-Gorski County, we had an unfortunate situation that many of our citizens were out of work in Uljanik and 3. Maya. In order to save themselves from poverty, they sought work and found many jobs in Italy. Today these people cannot go to their jobs, and on the other hand loans have to pay, on the other hand they have to provide children with conditions for schooling, they have to pay rents, directors, buy food. The government of the Republic of Croatia must also appeal to the SDP to prepare emergency measures to facilitate this situation for the economy and citizens. These measures should go in the direction of tax discharge, but also those measures must go towards imposing obligations, for example by banks to provide a moratorium for particularly vulnerable groups of citizens to pay off their obligations which, otherwise, citizens will not be able to pay. Dear colleagues and colleagues, this, you take my speech as an appeal, as an application to those responsible for the economic situation in the Republic of Croatia and for economic measures, which is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Start doing your job, propose concrete measures, and if these measures are good I am sure that they will enjoy the support of all of us sitting in HS and who we do not want to use this situation to collect political points but only to facilitate the problems that are clearly in front of our citizens and citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180847	The next club of MPs is the SDP on behalf of which the respected representative, Peja Grbin, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180848	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, allow me, first of all, to thank, on behalf of the Club of Representatives to whom I belong and on behalf of the SDP, all healthcare professionals and workers for what they are doing these days in order to counter the dangers posed by citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia from the coronaryvirus and the diseases it is causing. I will also take this opportunity to invite citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia to follow closely the information they are sending, which is national to what their regional crisis headquarters are and to be guided by them because at this point it is the safest way to prevent and prevent the spread of this disease that has turned into a global pandemic and in Croatia in an epidemic. Also, allow me to express my satisfaction that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has finally embarked on more concrete disease prevention and prevention measures, such as the measure presented today, which is the closure of educational institutions in the Republic of Croatia, starting Monday. So, primary schools, secondary schools, colleges, kindergartens, which we believe is good, it's necessary, it's useful and it will help prevent the spread of the disease. However, we also believe that this measure is not enough for itself. Shutting down schools, without ensuring adequate care, taking care of children, is simply not enough. In our view, this measure should have been followed by another one, which is the decision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia or this House to ensure that during the period until schools work, at least one parent, at least those children who are preschool or primary school age, they can stay at home with those children at the expense of their salaries. I'd like to remind you that the secretary of state at the Ministry of Education, Ramljak invited her parents to make sure someone was with the kids. Parents can't do that unless they're allowed to. As many of us know, and today our parents have come to us with this problem, many of them have taken advantage of their annual vacations during the strike, they simply now have no option, if there is no one to look after their children, but to pray for their doctors to open up some sort of fictitious illness. Therefore, we appeal to the Government of the Republic of Croatia that as soon as possible we go with a measure that will allow one parent to stay at home and care for their children with salary or part of the salary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180849	3rd debate, dear colleague Ranko Ostojić, on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180850	Dear President, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. The Government of the Republic of Croatia shall, on a proposal from the Minister, establish and appoint a solution to the Civil Protection Staff, consisting of executives and central authorities of the State Administration. I am now saying this for the reason when disaster is declared, the Civil Protection Staff's work is being handled by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia or by the authority of the Prime Minister, a member of the Government, the Head of the Civil Protection Staff of the Republic of Croatia. This is a provision. 22. and on this example, I want to show that in this situation, in which the SDP can of course be called a serious disaster, it wants to show its responsibility, and you have just seen in the vote on changes to the law without replicas, without reporting, in an effort to address the centralised management of this crisis as well as best possible. I think it's very important to point out that we should all be involved in this. It doesn't mean pay for any decision as to how someone comes to mind. It is primarily an interest to protect the citizens of the Republic of Croatia in the situation that as much as we could object to hundreds of complaints given, that we are interested in all and that we believe in the best intentions of people who are professional in protecting the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and that in this sense we want to make a contribution as a responsible party. In the event of the occurrence of specific circumstances involving an event or a certain situation which could not be predicted and which could not be affected, which endangers the life and health of citizens, the property of greater value, significantly disrupts the environment, economic activity or causes significant economic damage to the Civil Protection Staff, it makes decisions in the instructions carried out by the civil protection headquarters of local and regional (regional) self-government. It is clear to us that this is being brought precisely for reasons to achieve unity in acting so that it does not happen that someone in a city or a municipality has its own measures that differ from the intensity to protect all citizens, as there is no limit between municipalities, there is no limit between the states, and that is the question that this virus does not know the borders. In this sense, our contribution is not to report this morning, not to say perhaps better intentions that could have been resolved in the civil protection system, not to mention that there was a better solution in the earlier legislative proposal, but since it is a serious situation, above all only that message. The issue of concern for its citizens, making quick decisions, not allowing improvisation and a situation in which panic will not only spread but also address with responsibility the issue of what bothers citizens the most. How to protect this cannot be solved only through two press conferences, it should be a unique action. So I'm going to stop at any further discussion on this issue, and, of course, our MPs and MPs are going to talk about all other things, especially about the economy, the solutions that need to be saved at this point, but I want to send a message from this speaker on behalf of the SDP, which is if we want to be responsible for the MPs, then this is the moment where I believe that we will find serious intent and civil protection headquarters to listen to smart advice, to hear those sentences that should not necessarily be transmitted through the cameras and that it will be open to it. This is a disaster, this is a situation that is serious not only for Croatia but for the whole world and at this point on our part you can count on support in responsible measures, but what is important please do not take advantage of it. In that sense, as soon as there's a chance because we haven't filed a amendment or objected, this article. The 22nd must contain another provision, which is who decides that the National Headquarters assumes everything that is otherwise in the hands of the headquarters representing local and regional self-government. I thank you on my part, I believe that we will all approach this responsibly and on the side of the SDP you can count [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180851	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180852	The next Club of Representatives will be SDP, and this one will speak on behalf of the club, the respected representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180853	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens, the HS has shown in these two days that the situation in which the Republic of Croatia is in place is up to it, that it is possible in one democratic way to discuss and possibly unanimously or with a large majority of votes to pass those laws that are in one part a larger or smaller response to this situation. HS still needs to be a place where citizens will be able to express or receive answers to some of their questions or to some of the concerns they have in this situation. The Croatian Parliament is a place which, because of the seriousness of the situation, some constitutional rights of citizens can and limit in this situation. That is why we are asking in the SDP to open a discussion on the application of Article 17 within the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. The constitution of the Republic of Croatia which clearly states that in a time of great natural disasters, certain freedoms and rights guaranteed by the constitution can be limited. The constitution defines what cannot be limited but let's stick to it. The decisions taken last night are that they are limited or previously taken, that certain constitutional rights of citizens are limited, the right to public gathering, the right to freedom of movement, the right to exercise economic activity. But it's good, and the Constitution says it's supposed to bring two-thirds of the majority, to bring in and how long it can take and to bring in when these restrictions will be revoked. In this situation, the legal and orderly functioning of the state is much more important for citizens than it is, rather, and I hope that it will soon become again. This is a time when citizens must have greater trust in institutions and states than in so-called "citizens". normal times and we need to prevent the state authorities from abuse of that trust, because abuse of trust in someone in this situation creates unnecessary panic and fears among citizens. The state has to function legally, it has to function neatly so to say, and no abuse of trust received by certain state bodies in this situation should happen. Those who perform on behalf of the state today should not go out with unverified information, accuse others of unwittingly functioning, and then become subject to a lynching in the media like we had a case with doctors with Rebra, so the subsequent statement must be tempered or a statement that someone refused hospitalisation, and the family argues otherwise. You can check it out and go public with verified information. It is also a question of freedom of the media, it is also a question of other democratic rights, and therefore, in this situation, the Croatian Parliament should be the one who, in the Constitution, will limit certain rights of citizens to a certain time, carry out the debate, not leave it to the authorities without democratic legitimacy and without a clear mandate to do so. If the situation is special, and it is, if Croatia has hit a major natural disaster, and it is, then let's do the task the way the Constitution asked us to. If a meeting cannot be done by the President of the Republic, but one decision in which we will count which rights of our citizens are currently limited and/or at least a debate on such a decision, so let's see if we all agree on this and reunited decision in the Croatian Parliament is the best answer for the citizens that Croatia and this will survive and that it will be that way, and you like to quote the president, the first Croatian president, is unique and eternal. So, the Constitution had, had laws, had a state and let's get out of this situation as a real state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180854	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180855	We are now moving to deliver a position on behalf of the Club of Representatives and Independent Representatives, the first Mrs. Caroline Leakovic in front of the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180856	KAROLINA LEAKOVIĆ: I thank the chairman, colleagues and colleagues. A fellow Shuker called for trust unconditionally in the rulings of the government of the Republic of Croatia. I will still take the opportunity, regardless of the call, to refer here to yesterday's decision by the Government of the Republic of Croatia at a telephone session and actually ask for clarification of such a decision since I am sure that the Croatian public, our citizens and citizens are interested in why such a decision has been made. Therefore, it is that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has adopted a solution on the granting of funds on the burden of the budget for this year and that is, that an advance of 18 million 937 thousand and 500 kn will be paid to the medical and pharma trade for the purchase of protective masks for the purpose of preventing the spread of coronaryvirus. Therefore, it is that this private company will be paid 19 million kuna in order to obtain 2500 pieces of protective masks for the purpose of preventing the spread of the COVID-19 virus. Since it's such a large amount of mask, I'm not going to speculate, I have no information, but we seem to be in a serious problem with the purchase of these protective means. What I really care about and what we are interested in from the SDP Club, but first of all, the invited of course about our citizens' and citizens' questions are actually the criteria that the government has led to when it has otherwise granted this private company, which was founded on 3.12.2019, this great support for the purchase of masks. So why has this very company been chosen, and why has it actually not already been used by these funds to go into direct agreements with producers of these supplies in the Republic of Croatia, and why has it not actually been in this way in the first opportunity that occurred after yesterday's measures stimulated domestic production? I believe there are reasons if we play with trust. So, I'd like the prime minister to explain why this decision was taken yesterday at a phone session? It's a huge amount that certainly, therefore, could welcome our companies, our producers, all those who are in difficulties due to this crisis. I'm sure there's no reason for the more detailed public not to be informed of this decision yesterday. First of all, because we expect additional medical equipment to be obtained in the next period, that medicines, hygiene supplies, and everything that is actually needed to deal with this virus, which, of course, threatens us. We have already talked about this today, so that the crisis may also be an opportunity, here is the opportunity for Prime Minister Plenkovic, the Government, to show in fact how responsible it is to deal with the challenge of producing precisely these funds at the moment in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180857	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180858	We are going to the 2nd debate, dear colleague Davor Bernardić on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180859	Dear President HS, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, let me begin by expressing my sincere condolences to the family of the dead girls. This devastating earthquake in the City of Zagreb has shown the necessity to adopt a special Law to solve the consequences of the earthquake in the City of Zagreb. That's what the SDP suggested and I expect the government to adopt. The SDP government was in the most difficult moments for Gunya when horrors were experienced during the floods passed a special law and restored homes. We need to rebuild our homes for more than 500 people in the centre of Zagreb, as well as in the sub-Sljemen area in the settlements of Markuševec, Markushevačka Trnava, Chucherje and other settlements affected by this earthquake. But images from earthquake - affected hospitals, especially from Petrova, touched everyone. They once again warned of the need to invest in the health system and ensure adequate working conditions, especially for all healthcare professionals, doctors, nurses, all of whom I really appreciate that the cold heads have endured this pressure, as well as for everything they are doing on the first line of defense against this vicious epidemic, which is unfortunately expanding. We in the SDP two weeks ago called for more rigorous measures and for more testing to be done to prevent the spread of the epidemic as effectively as possible. It's not just our position, it's the World Health Organization's position. It has been shown that every day the delay of rigorous measures leads to uncontrolled chaos. Rigorous measures have come 10 days too late, and the tests are still too small. The Republic of Slovenia has done only about 3,000 tests on 4 million inhabitants, for example 15 times more. Of all those tested at this point, 11% positive for the coronary virus, which is a large percentage. This way I would also like to invite the National Headquarters and all the competent services to make the tests available to as many people and to as many locations as possible, not to be spared on tests and medical equipment. That is why it is necessary to limit the spending of state money because we need every kuna, and that is why in the SDP we propose to suspend payment of parafiscal duties, at least these greatest during this crisis, suspension of all employment plans and in the state service and public enterprises, as well as agencies, as well as the suspension of all public procurement plans other than those which are not in the function of combating COVID-19. These days, it becomes clear that the measures taken by the government are unfortunately insufficient. The implementation is delayed and citizens and entrepreneurs do not know what to do at the moment. Unfortunately, at this point, many people have lost their jobs, lost their income for their families, and time is gone, time is running out. We in the SDP two weeks ago presented more than 15 measures to mitigate the negative consequences on citizens and the economy. However, many of the measures we have proposed and insist on the entrepreneurs themselves. Therefore, we are sending to the procedure for an emergency procedure a package of laws for the rescue of the economy. And it's not time for entrepreneurs to credit the state at this point. Secondly, the release of 100% of the contributions to payouts to workers during the duration of the crisis for those who have ceased their business and this is the basis of the Civil Protection Staff decision. Thirdly, the payment of 75% of the net salary and up to 5.00 kn in the companies affected by the crisis. Fourth, the moratorium on the payment of the credit i.e. to credit wars for citizens and entrepreneurs. Fifth, providing paid leave for at least one parent so he can spend time with his kids who don't go to school. 6. We propose that the next three months parliamentary representatives and other state officials share the fate of the people and leave for three months during the duration of this crisis on minimum wage, except for those on the first line of defense. 7. that VAT is paid only after charge of invoices and in the month in which the invoice was created. 8. We also propose to reduce and limit tight interest. 9. to amend the Income Tax Act and to raise the non-taxable part up to 30,000 kuna in order to ensure payments to workers in companies affected by these two disasters. I call upon you to be determined, to take measures this week because there is no time to wait and hesitate, to save the economy before everything collapses. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180860	The SDP advocates' club will also state its position, according to representative Gordan Maras on their behalf.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180861	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, although a HDZ colleague earlier said that the opposition should not be warned that HDZ is running and Bandic Mayor of all accounts, I will continue and we will warn here in the Croatian Parliament of the problems, the problems that occur daily and which citizens warn us about. A few days ago in the City of Zagreb we had a devastating earthquake very many buildings were damaged, very many of our fellow citizens may not be able to stay in their homes at the moment, but they are taken care of at some other locations, at a November home in the Flower Village, with their families, some have gone out of town, but the fact is that this should be a warning of what priorities we need for the future, we should work on and what special attention should be paid when a disaster like this can happen in the City of Zagreb. So, this way I want to express my support for all those people who were killed in this earthquake, we're very sorry for everything that's happened. I have visited the people of Markushevec personally, in Dankovec, in Chucherje, we have looked there, very many buildings are damaged and the house is damaged, unfortunately the statisticians and those who are engaged around this whole process of the list have not yet managed to do all the damage, it should be a little hasty to make sure that people can be in their homes or not. But what I'm trying to say here is I'm not particularly happy with the amount of money that's meant to damage people who've suffered from earthquake damage. So yesterday's announcement by the mayor of Zagreb that they will be compensated or that damage will be paid to people who have damages on the facility greater than 60% to 5% of the value of the facility is really minimal and I don't think it is enough and that we should make sure that people are treated as soon as possible for their facilities, their homes, their houses, their houses, to sort of pass a special law in the Croatian Parliament that would regulate such a disaster as it happened in the city of Zagreb, and to try to allow people to put their homes and homes into office as soon as possible, and on the other hand to deprive them entirely of the damage they have suffered because of this disaster. What I would also particularly like to point out here is that the problem in the city of Zagreb is not to invest in what we all call the city center, or the historic core of the city all these years, now come to collect all those unnecessary and overpaid costs of unnecessary investment. And all the money that's been coming in for years and I'd say from the city budget I spend in an untransparent way. Now they come to the collection of fountains and gold toilets and equipment and godmothers and various things that have been happening in the city of Zagreb for years, instead of investing in those facilities that citizens really need and that should be protected because of their perseverance or because they were made more than a hundred years ago and were simply to invest in them. The question now is how much has been damaged by these facilities where people live and schools of secondary, elementary, kindergartens, hospitals in the city center and why have not invested in them for years, why has the city of Zagreb not invested in them as owner for years? Do we really need to do fountains, do we really need to overpay for years of certain services? When we see at the press conferences of people who are under heavy charges of corrupt acts, then we must be aware that all these budget kunas that the Zagreb and Zagreb women have been paying for for years could be used in quality. And now, of course, we need to make a turn, and here I call on the city administration to stop building a monument for 35 million kunas in front of the city administration, 35 million kunas built by a company connected to Mayor Bandic, to stop an overpriced cable company that will cost us 800 million kuna, which is not our priority right now. We should bet on the damage that took place in the city of Zagreb to stop employment in the city administration. Incredibly, at this point in town administration, dozens of employees are employed while tens of thousands of our fellow citizens are out of work. So we must change our priorities in the city of Zagreb and I call on the mayor to do so immediately at this point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180862	The next statement of view is the honourable representative of Gordan Maras on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180863	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My fellow Members and fellow MPs, the respected citizens, I would like to thank here, primarily, all those public service workers who at this time are mostly firemen, officers who are working hard to defend themselves from this crisis, and to make it easier and easier to get through it, after being hit by the coronary virus or the global pandemic, and after being hit by a massive earthquake this Sunday. Unfortunately, the situation is what it is and there's nothing else we can do but try to get everyone back together and do whatever we can to get through it as simple as possible and to start normal lives as possible. I also thank the citizens who adhere to the measures issued by the national headquarters and who, who respect the measures of the restrictions on contact, means that they respect everything in some way to protect themselves, their families, their neighbours and our entire country as soon as possible to go through this crisis. What is important and what I want to say here is that however we are satisfied with how the national headquarters works and how we deal with this problem in health, we are not satisfied with the speed of the proposal from the Government of the Republic of Croatia concerning the economic part of the problem that is present on a daily basis. So if we had a comparative press conference like we have every day that Minister Beros gives us about the state of the nation, if we had a press conference every day of Minister Marić or Prime Minister Plenkovic's economic situation, we'd see that every day more and more people re-applicate to the labour markets, that the businessmen don't know what their perspective is, that companies who unfortunately can't work these months still have to think about how to pay certain costs like contributions, dropped to profit taxes and certain other taxes they shouldn't pay, and how, who are burdened and simply not knowing what perspective they have. So we have to become aware at this point we are already late for this because it had to be parallel to each other that, with a health situation, we have to deal with an economic situation that will last much longer than the problem of the coronary virus is fortunately because I believe it will pass, but the economic crisis will last for a whole, whole series of months, and possibly years. So on this side we expected already yesterday at the Government of the Republic of Croatia a set of measures that the Croatian Parliament could adopt to help the economy, to help citizens to continue their economic activities as soon as this crisis is over and to preserve as many measures as possible. Since there was no such proposal yesterday at the cabinet session, the SDP's Club of Representatives sent nine laws and conclusions here today that I hope the Croatian Parliament will discuss within as soon as possible, which include proposals that we think are necessary to do in order to protect jobs, to protect our citizens so that they can continue their business activities tomorrow, that they can earn for themselves, their family and in some way live from their work, or that we do not have an explosion and recession after this crisis has passed. This is primarily about suspending the payment of contributions for those affected by this crisis, this is about suspending the profit tax advance for those affected by this crisis, which includes a whole series of those flatulents, craftsmen and those who rent their premises that they do not have to pay that flat-rate tax. It takes care that jobs have to be protected and thus to increase the isolation of what the government predicted to be 3,200 kuna to 75% of the average salary and 5,100 kuna each month, because we believe that at this point the state must stand behind its employees, it must stand behind its economy, it must stand behind its people to continue normal with its lives. Croatia and the business part of Croatia must not stop, the state is the only one who can get enough funding to stand behind its citizens and we believe that these measures need to be implemented as soon as possible and adopted as possible. And I call on the vice president here to inform the president of the assembly that the next week these measures will be put on the agenda as soon as possible so that we can say with the view that I stand behind the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, behind our economy because the crisis will pass the jobs we must preserve. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180864	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180865	We are going to the 7th debate of the Club of Representatives of the SDP esteemed colleague Davor Bernardić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180866	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. We in the SDP believe that at this time due to the situation in the Republic of Croatia, due to the spread of the outbreak of the Croatian Parliament's coronary epidemic, the Croatian Parliament continues to work uninterrupted, in a way that keeps the plenary session from Monday to Friday, not from Wednesday to Friday. We also suggest that the meeting of the Croatian Parliament continue next week, so also during the Easter holidays, given the state in which our country is located. The agenda that we're discussing this week in no way reflects the real state in which our country is located because of the Coronation of the Virus. The agenda is the smallest said chamomile, and the Republic of Croatia is practically in a state of emergency. The epidemic spreads uncontrollably, every day few people are tested, of that small number, 12% of people are positive for the coronary virus. The virus has entered the hospital system practically and is therefore necessary at this time to protect hospitals and test all healthcare professionals. At the same time, the economy is in complete collapse. There is an ambiance of mistrust, no payments among suppliers, every day hundreds of people end up on the road without a job, no income for their families. There is uncertainty and fear among entrepreneurs and citizens. People are just desperate. The measures taken by the government do not produce absolutely any results. We have been warning for a month about the consequences of the crisis, and 20 days ago we came out with 15 measures to reduce the negative impact of this epidemic on citizens and the economy. As our measures were not adopted by the government, the SDP sent 10 to the procedure last week, a package of 10 laws to save entrepreneurs, to save the economy and to save citizens. I therefore urge you today, President HS, to put our 10 laws on the agenda as soon as possible this week, so that we can help citizens and entrepreneurs. Our package of laws would allow at least one parent to be provided with a paid leave during which he spends at home with his children. On the other hand, they would also ensure payment and 75% salary for workers in companies affected by the crisis, and up to a maximum of € 5.100,00, simply so that they could survive. We allow citizens and entrepreneurs of moratorium on loans for a year to provide business security for entrepreneurs, and simply provide security for citizens to move on with normal life without fear or uncertainty. Let's free the economy of payment of contributions while the crisis is going on, stop the tax rate on profits and suspend the income tax for the flat-rate rate for craftsmen and small tenants. This way, I call on the Government to lift all parafiscal burdens during the crisis, to restore trust in payments by example, to reduce state payments to suppliers for 7 days and to ensure the necessary liquidity to the economy through the European Stabilisation Mechanism, and to propose that VAT be charged at the rate. It's time for the government to step out of quarantine when it comes to saving the economy and jobs. We need to act now. The Republic of Croatia has no time to wait, no time for debate clubs and delays of all kinds. It's time for decisions. And HS is currently the last line to defend democracy. The elected representatives represent the will of the citizens, but they also represent the citizens most affected at this moment by this crisis due to the coronary virus. The MPs are their voice. We must allow their voice to be heard. We therefore propose that the advantage of putting a point on the agenda is those points that are just about easing the negative effects on the health of citizens and on the health of the economy here in HS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180867	The SDP representative club has also applied for a position on their behalf, according to MP Franco Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180868	Thank you, Vice President. So, first of all, I must address the leadership of the assembly, and we, as the SDP Representatives' Club, are asking for measures to be implemented by the end of the session, along with the Government's proposal, to discuss the SDP proposal as well. What I want to talk about right now is about the county district where I come from, and it's the Murter municipality. As we know, Murter municipality is the only one in Croatia currently in full quarantine. I want to thank everyone for having responded after the call of the mayor of the municipality of Turcinov and who made it possible for today to conduct and test and to conduct all other activities and related to the health of the citizens of Murter municipality. Also, I especially want to highlight the efforts of the Municipality of Murter Mr. Tonci Turkinov, who alarmed the entire Croatian public when he saw that the car was going downhill and that nothing else helped except the public. I want to give you their message, speed up the testing process and test as many people as possible. According to my information, the Murter municipality itself will go to a cost tax elimination rate of 3%, also likely to go with the cutting of municipal fees and communal contributions. What opens up as a big question is the Murter municipality after Covida-19, a municipality that lives in cca 2,000 inhabitants, living from tourism, and the marina does not work, private shops do not work, bakeries do not work, and the only thing it does is 3 stores in the composition of trade chains and currently supplying Murter residents. In particular, it should be apostrophe that Murter is a municipality with 86 restaurants, of which the 10th peak of Croatian gastronomic offer, of which 46 restaurants are stationed on Kornati. The quarantine prescribed on Murter is indeed quarantined, therefore there is no economic activity or in the building that in the rest of Croatia thanks God is not and is not good that, not even in tourism, hospitality and the like. The works carried out by Murter Municipality itself, which is a kindergarten with the value of an 11 million kuna investment, have been stopped, all projects and entrepreneurial and municipal stand at this moment. The budget is currently practically not full just because the quarantine officers can't access the municipality building so they can't even issue bills. So when you look at this whole community situation like Murter, the community with a scenario of complete life-blocking, since we're not still at the top of the Covid-19 crisis can still happen. With this step, I would like to appeal to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to propose specific measures for such municipalities because these proposals are not sufficient and they are not just municipalities, but maybe even whole cities if such a situation arises. I don't want a script like that, but it's possible and should be prepared for it. It is not a solution to separate our places by road obstacles and police ships from the rest of the world, it is not a picture of coffee we want anywhere in Croatia. It may be an emergency right now, but it's not the picture we want. Besides, maybe people behind those blockades wouldn't exactly agree with the thesis that their human rights are not being violated. Such places after Covid-19 pass, we cannot allow ourselves to recover economically. And that is the final message, so we ask the Government of the Republic of Croatia to take special measures in view of the Murter municipality's case and given that such municipalities may unfortunately still be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180869	It will now be the position of the SDP Representatives Club, the distinguished representative of Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180870	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues. Today in the Croatian Parliament, we are discussing a topic that is crucial to our future and what our country will look like when the coronary virus crisis is over, and I believe that most representatives and all clubs in HS will support the measures proposed here today, not because they are optimal because some more measures have to be taken, but because they are good as a direction in which we should go and all together take certain steps, do certain things so that our country will have a chance tomorrow as soon as possible from the economic crisis. The SDP has proposed 8 laws, some of those things that we have proposed by ruling, and we are just going to discuss some of these things, and we think it's very important to discuss topics like moratories on loan payments, so that's what we absolutely insist on and what we don't see in government proposals. The other thing is, it's still on the table that if one of the employees of the parents is not able to get free to take care of their child since our children are not going to school today, they should have the opportunity to spend at least one of the two employed parents with their child at home. It's another thing that's open and we're only going to discuss in the future. So, there's a lot of things that the SDP Representatives Club is proposing, it's going to propose in the future, and I believe that some of these things like this first, in the first set of proposals, are going to be accepted, although our proposal of 5,100,00 kn compensation is not accepted but it's 4,000.00, although our write-off of contributions we've proposed is not fully accepted, but let's try to find the best set of measures that we can all agree on in order to make it easier for our citizens. But now I'd like to warn you of a problem. So, on the one hand, we're talking, we're negotiating, problems that need to be solved at the state level, and in HS there's a debate going on, while on the other hand we in the City of Zagreb have had one catastrophic accident, so we've been hit by a massive earthquake 12 days ago, a lot of our fellow citizens aren't in their homes right now, the city still looks like, like, a battlefield, destroyed, chimneys on all sides, citizens in their arrangement solving their problems. Instead of helping the city of Zagreb to make it possible for its citizens to register their chimneys and ruins within a very short period of time, so that they can clear themselves up so that citizens can start to rebuild together with, with the city and with the state of their homes and public institutions, we do not have it at this time. Moreover, HDZ, Bandic and HNS are arguing over who should be responsible for what is in charge of the reconstruction. Instead of the Law on the Reconstruction of Zagreb is also on the agenda today, instead of defining certain things to help citizens, we do not have it in HS today. Try to understand the gentlemen of HDZ, HNS and Mayor Bandic, who are acting as authorities at the City of Zagreb's level, that citizens expect the city to stand behind them, that we cannot now discuss who will have control over the city's restoration, who will have some interest in certain activities, that citizens should be helped as quickly as possible. On this side, we expect that next week the Law on the Reconstruction of the City of Zagreb will be on the agenda, that next week we know very clearly how and how Zagreb will be renewed, that the following week will finally stop the disputes between HDZ, Bandic Mayor and HNS about who will have control and paw over what will be done in the City of Zagreb and when and how to rebuild because the citizens have nothing. Try to understand, gentlemen, that we are fed up with such irresponsible authorities in the City of Zagreb, that we are tired of the HDZ and Mayor Bandic and I call this way on all those who are looking at us today at 7 p.m. to come out of our window of indignation and to express clearly what we think about the government in the City of Zagreb, the Mayor Bandic and HDZ, banging on pots, fucking and showing that we are not satisfied with how the reconstruction is going in the City of Zagreb, how the city has set itself up according to that renewal and whether the City of Zagreb is behind its citizens. It's enough, it needs to be changed as soon as possible, we have to think about our fellow citizens, we have to say that this is not good and that this is not working in a way that protects citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180871	Thank you. The esteemed representative of the Hrg will now stand, no pardon with the views we are finished.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180872	We are going to the 5th debate, dear colleague Davor Bernardić on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180873	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. We in the SDP warned a month and a half ago about the consequences of the crisis caused by the coronaryvirus, and three weeks ago we went out with our first package with more than 15 measures to help citizens and the economy. Our measures were then not accepted by the government, but precisely because of the late government's reaction and because the time was running out from day to day, and Croatia simply had no time to wait, we sent a package of our 10 laws to help the economy and help to preserve jobs and by emergency procedure. After we have offered the Croatian public in the SDP for the past 3 weeks, but also to the Croatian government solutions to help entrepreneurs in their efforts to preserve jobs and to literally push them, especially the Croatian Government to act more quickly and more strongly in this direction, only one step towards helping the economy has been taken. But now we need to help the citizens, especially those most vulnerable. Among them are 70,000 social assistance users, 240,000 blocked and 400 thousand pensioners, or citizens who have income below the poverty threshold and whose survival during this crisis is in fact entirely at stake. In just two weeks of the crisis, thanks to the late government's reaction, 20,000 workers are out of work. Another 400,000 workers are in fear of losing their jobs. Over 5,500 permanent seasons and 100,000 people who are unemployed on the Stock Exchange and are not receiving any compensation, their employment prospects due to this crisis are almost completely destroyed. It's actually over a million people who are at this point in Croatia the most vulnerable, who are soon unable to pay the directors, who cannot pay the rent, who simply cannot pay the loans. And that is why SDP will continue to insist on moratorium on loans to citizens for a year, not for 3 months, but also for other measures that are under discussion tomorrow in HS, such as increasing the fee for self-insulated citizens, paid leave for one parent, reduction of tight interest, termination of the flat-rate tax for more than 110 thousand small tenants in tourism, but not only that. We will also insist on our 3rd package of measures to help citizens at the time of the crisis we presented yesterday, which includes 10 measures. The first is a fee of at least 4000 kuna per month for the next 3 months for unemployed people who were fired during the crown crisis, with 20,000 of them. Secondly, a 750 kuna protective supplement per month for social assistance users is 70,000 of them. The 750 kn protective supplement per month for pensioners with small pensions, so below this 1940 kn threshold, is approximately 350 to 400 thousand. Furthermore, a fee of half the minimum wage, i.e. 1625 kn for the unemployed on the Stock Exchange, 100 thousand of them and who simply cannot find any other job because of this crisis. 5., a fee with fixed seasons at a minimum salary of 3250 kn, 5500 of them. 6th, removal of the TV subscription for pensioners with small pensions and social assistance users. 7., a grant from 500 to 1000 kuna per month for renting an apartment for all affected groups, if they are hired, 8. I would like to place a special emphasis on this because it is necessary to do so at this time, for 240 thousand blocked citizens to suspend the performance and increase the amount of pay free of charge, as well as issuing bank cards for blocked citizens with an appropriate spending limit. And in 10th, the suspension of online banking fees, so that there is simply no physical contact. These measures shall be adopted in time of 3 months. or during the duration of this crisis. We believe that these measures are very concrete, enforceable and that we must act simply quickly to help the most vulnerable group of citizens. Unemployed, blocked, retired, permanent seasons and social assistance users. So I call on the government to consider them and to respect them as she has already followed some of our proposals.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180874	The last statement of view is on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HND and the esteemed representative of the SDP, the esteemed representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180875	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Yesterday’s word, that is, was the expression of yesterday’s day as politicizing and constructive unity. I will quote "What Bernardić is doing is unfortunate, now he is giving us lessons. This is not the time to politicise everything that would be constructive we are always ready to consider, but politicizing in this situation is not welcome." That was said yesterday at the press of the Civil Protection Headquarters of the Deputy Prime Minister and Interior Minister Mr Bozinovic, and thus little use of the political centre's presses. Mr. Vice President, you didn't resist yesterday either, and you also had one of your performances where you also accused us of politicizing, you said that "it is not time for entertainment and political competitions, but this is a time that requires community and concentration on these problems, and you invited Bernardić to go along with the government to seek the best solution". Did I quote correctly? That's how they transferred it. Fellows and colleagues, the word politicizing on the Croatian language portal means "to engage in political talks, to conduct policy talks" or "to make the policy features take place in policy". I think politics is one good thing for citizens, and for citizens, it's a useful skill or science or discipline, that politicians should work to make the citizens better, or that politicizing or dealing with politics is something that's useful. And giving criticism in the sense that politicians or politicians in power are better is not politicizing, it is the foundation of a democratic order. And don't warn us again that we don't criticise you, that we have constructive unity as a single-minded company and that we only praise you, a little bit took you and stopped at the ball and let political life in Croatia go on a normal course. In this regard, I call on the political elected officials to give the stage of their uniforms, no state of emergency, to take off their uniforms and these at national level and these at local level. Croatia has not declared a state of emergency, the situation is special, but until the state of emergency is declared, let us act as a mature parliamentary democracy. That goes for the citizens, that goes for the politicians. Last time, so-called. The March package was adopted unanimously with several accepted amendments by the opposition parties, today we voted in favour of almost all government laws although no opposition amendment was adopted this time. Is that a constructive union? Well, it's not like the opposition's 100% missed the subject with all the amendments she's proposed, is it? Today we are discussing a package of opposition laws, several laws have passed on committees thanks to the votes of the ruling majority, but is politicising when HDZ deputies pressure the rest of the parliamentary majority that when they have already voted for our law to change their vote? Yes, it is. So if we're going to talk about constructive unity then and a little bit and you put the ball down on the ground and calm down the experience, or let's just say there's no need for constructive unity, the thing is normal. Because what you've done to your internal party opposition by taking away their visibility and importance in the inside elections because of the crown, you won't do it to us. This concerns only you first, and this second concerns all citizens. And so, dear citizens, first of all, respect the instructions and decisions of the headquarters, it's for your physical health. And secondly, criticize what is not good, praise what is good, politicize how much it takes because we are a democratic country and do this first for physical health, and this second for your mental health and ours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180876	Thank you to Honorable Representative Bauku.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180877	Debate number 10 of dear colleagues, Boris Lalovac, on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180878	Thank you. Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues, the SDP has played an active constructive role in proposing measures to save the economy and jobs since the start of the crisis. So far, we have sent over 20 draft laws which have not yet been put to the vote and which we insist on, which ensure an increase in the basics for self-insulating workers to the amount of the average salary, then paid leave to one parent who spends time at home with his children during the crisis, an increase in the amount of non-taxable payments so that employers in particularly sensitive activities under the crown crisis can additionally reward their workers, subsidies from 500 to 1,000 kuna per month for renting the most affected groups of citizens if in the lease, the suspension tightens interest. It is certainly important to see that yesterday the government sent it to suspend the performance and help blocked in the form of a card issue, so they must not only free them from the performance but to avoid doing the job, to go to the counters they must issue cards. Then a monthly fee of minimum, in terms of minimum salaries for 100,000 unemployed who today do not receive any kunas and 5,500 permanent seasons that were to start working somewhere at the 4th month, however, do not receive any compensation. We also propose a protection supplement for pensioners and social assistance users of 750 kuna per month. I will only warn that there are about 400,000 pensioners who have up to 1,900 kuna pensions and about 70,000 social aid beneficiaries who have between 700 and 800 kuna benefits. And certainly, it is particularly important to have a moratorium on citizens' loans up to a year without accounting for additional interest and compensation. What we see in public these days is that banks have gone out with some moratorium for up to 3 months, however, have additionally burdened citizens through various verifications of such contracts. We think that this is unnecessary and that the government should intervene that, when certain moratories are already being done, certain restrictions must be placed there. But what we are warning is that this crisis, or all of these citizens who are being paid by the government today, is about 550,000 people who in 6 and 7 months will unfortunately not have to go back to where the economy is. That's the problem. And that's why the SDP is proposing a one-year moratorium, especially for those citizens. Why? Because all these companies, all of the economy in six months and seven months will actually start from zero, they all start from zero. And what we're afraid of is this current fictitious unemployment will erupt in unemployment in seven and eight months. All these entrepreneurs, the government doesn't have any instruments, now they've been keeping these people so fictitiously for three months, there are no instruments for employers to keep these workers and after this 3 months. In particular, we have problems, and today someone has already talked about paying the fees, which must certainly be ensured by the government, banning any profits from previous years, so we're talking about the cash principle as long as they have the support from the state. It's important stuff. What concerns me, too, yesterday I heard information that the government from public companies is buying liquidity into the state budget. What is really most important now is to provide liquidity to the economy, it is guaranteed the liquidity of the state's payment because the state can only be in debt under more favourable conditions than businesses, so they give liquidity to the economy and public enterprises have to provide liquidity. We see the situation of the City of Zagreb. So the worst would become now if the state, public enterprises, local administrations that will also find themselves in big problems would not start paying. Because the economy must, the most important form of liquidity or the insolvency of companies, because if the economic cycle starts to stop, then even if it starts after the insolvency or insolvency in society, we won't be able to get out for a long time. Provider, suppliers if they don't pay. And that's why I ask the government to make a package of state measures that public companies have to pay local administration as well. Because only now can the public sector come to liquidity much faster than the economy can and therefore this moratorium is important for banks. Because if the banks that just gave it three months lay down with their performances at 7, 8 and 9 months, they'll suck all the money out of the economy. It is important to us that the economy has insolvency and therefore this moratorium is very important to ensure the flow of money in the economy especially between suppliers. If the state gave up its income and we welcomed it, if the entrepreneurs gave up their income, I see no reason why the banks account for interest. and do not give one long-term liquidity or stability to citizens. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180879	The next Club of Representatives is the SDP on behalf of which the respected representative Sabina Vosovac will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180880	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Today, on April 22nd, a month after the earthquake in Zagreb, a month after the students left school benches, a month and a little more days after the students followed the teaching distance. The only thing you know about ending school year and graduation is that nothing concrete is known. As if there wasn't enough delay, indecision and making bad and devastating decisions in the strike when, due to our indecisiveness and ultimately misjudges and government decisions, we lost a month of our students in a situation that they practically couldn't follow the course, we're still going on with that kind of behavior, so we're spinning scenarios. A month ago, all students will have to take the prom remotely, we warn don't do that, children don't have the same conditions. The first assumption of a graduation is that it is laid on equal terms, on the same day at the same time. Don't do that. Well, kids don't have Internet anywhere, so kids don't have computers somewhere, they don't have a quiet corner, which is with kids with difficulties. Let's give up that crazy idea and then think, think, think and today come up with an idea, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, we'll spend that prom in June but we don't know what's going to happen in that prom yet, so we're gonna negotiate with the rectors here on hold we haven't negotiated with them anything to see if we can do with elections or without election classes, so then we don't know where we're going to go, so in the halls we'll probably because now we've become aware of the fact that there's not a single school in Zagreb that's actually inhabitable. How many kids don't have a roof over their heads? Now you're going with this other hybrid idea, you're releasing test balloons without it being negotiated with the directors, the local administration units and self-government, the epidemiologists, without having reached one consensus to get out and said here we decided that, that, that, and that. It is clear that we cannot predict some movement, but we must be able to make decisions even in these most difficult situations. We did this and otherwise what the Minister suggested yesterday to her 20 days ago when it was still real. So, prolong the prom, give up on-line graduation and cut the material and leave out the one from the second term for four years, but today it's not a real scenario anymore. Today it's a pass, it's too late, we have to look for new solutions. 9 countries in Europe are now prolonging prom, the UK and the Netherlands have cancelled it, Switzerland, France, Malta and Sweden have abolished parts of the prom. So in a number of countries with the tradition of graduation, graduation is abolished and replaced by received grades, well they probably have more trust in their educational, educational system, but they have made such decisions. We didn't bring anything at the moment. Parents feel a lot of suspense, yesterday calls one mom, the kid's an excellent student, goes to the competition, has panic attacks, is not well, has big physical but also mental problems. Are we aware that at this point in time, by not making decisions and keeping ourselves in suspense, we are making children? We have to save a generation that's lost too much. These countries canceled or delayed their graduation, and they had no earthquake, no strike, and our children had that, too. Now let's all break this agony, I'm a big supporter of state graduation and as one quality assuranceist, but also an anti-corruption mechanism when we get into colleges, but we are in completely different circumstances today and let's seriously think about just this year to cut out graduation, to ensure that children are finished by finishing grades, to negotiate with colleges not to carry out selective procedures, to go as far as possible to the Belgian model to get everyone into what they want, that the selection takes place after the first year, and where this may not be possible, it may be at the end of August or early September of the national qualification exams for universities that will have the content of the graduation for which the children were preparing, but there will be no additional stress and there will be no security risk, and safety but also psychological risk for students and insisting on the implementation of the graduation in June, regardless of the situation of the three weeks in which is significant and the future. Let's be reasonable, let's make it easy for the kids, let's not make it harder for them. All of us here are paid to make decisions, not to prolong them, stall them, and bring students, children, parents. in a stalemate position. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180881	The following is the statement of view on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, the distinguished representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180882	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Vice President. As we discuss here in the assembly, two points directly related to the Croatian judiciary and the state of justice are being discussed at the meeting of the Government of the Republic of Croatia today. The first point concerns the Law on Intervention Measures in executive and bankruptcy proceedings during the period of special circumstances, which are special circumstances, of course we all know. In principle, we support the adoption of such a law even though it is too late. However, we point out that the problem in the judiciary does not lie solely in executive and bankruptcy proceedings. There is also a problem in litigation procedures where citizens are denied regular and normal access to the court, there is also a problem in criminal proceedings where, although deadlines are ongoing, even though the release of prisoners from the prison is not being held. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the situation in the judiciary is generally bad. This epidemic and earthquake in the City of Zagreb will further reverse it. For what? Because the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, unlike for example the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or the European Court of Human Rights, does not accept the seriousness of the circumstances in which we are located and does not take appropriate measures to facilitate the pressure on the situation in the judiciary. When the crown process is over we'll only have worse condition, we'll have more unsolved items, we'll have longer waiting for our citizens and citizens. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I also use this opportunity to call once again on the Government of the Republic of Croatia to take the necessary measures to improve the situation in the judiciary and make it easier for citizens not to lose their rights. However, this is not the only issue of the work of the judiciary before the government of the Republic of Croatia today. Secondly, it is quite unexpected, now beware, the decision to set up a commission to determine candidates for the main state attorney of the Republic of Croatia. A body not provided for by the Law on State Attorney's Office, a body for which no one who deals with the State's Attorney's Office, the election of the State's Attorney General, and I humbly believe that I belong to people who do so, until yesterday evening, until he was announced by the Minister of Justice in the "Dnevnik" of New Television, there was no and no one knew about it. The Commission to determine candidates' proposals, not even candidates, but candidates' proposals, as in "Alan Ford" for researching ore and waste of time. The committee which will be questioned behind closed doors by candidates for a state attorney and likely discuss with the future chief state attorney certain circumstances which may not be for them to be discussed behind closed doors between representatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and representatives of an independent judicial institution. Dear colleagues and colleagues, and before this commission was established, we pointed out that the new solutions to the State's Attorney's Law on selecting candidates for chief state attorneys are bad. They're not transparent, they're just fine-tuning transparency. They only allow governments and authorities to hide behind other bodies in the election of their representative to the head of such an important institution. With this commission, it went a step forward. If the Government of the Republic of Croatia really wants real transparency, if the Government of the Republic of Croatia really wants the citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia, that the entire Croatian public has an insight into who will become the new chief state attorney then let them propose all six candidates who will be heard in front of the public, in front of the cameras, in the premises of HS, in front of the Justice Committee where it is for this and the place. And then we will certainly ask individual candidates about their meetings with the prime minister and the minister of justice before they file their candidacy. What we're doing today is simply a travesty and another proof that we have indecisive persons at the head of the government who don't know what to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180883	The next club of representatives is the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns and Independent Representatives Zeljko Glasnović and Zlatko Hasanbegovic, and the honourable representative Zeljko Glasnović will speak. He's gone. So then the next club of MPs will be the SDP on behalf of which the respected representative Gordan Maras will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180884	Thank you very much. My colleagues and fellow MPs. Dear viewers who watch us our fellow citizens. I wanted to look back at the things that are unfortunately happening in the capital city of Zagreb, which, with this epidemic that we have all experienced together the whole world, hit another big earthquake on 22.3. at 6.24 in the morning when everyone more or less woke up because of this big earthquake and left their houses where the city has suffered huge damage and in some way for a month and two days has not been functioning and has not been brought into some basic order so that citizens can live normally. Here I feel for thousands and thousands of our fellow citizens who have damaged objects. I most sympathise with the family of the deceased girl who was the victim of that day in an earthquake and all those others who are not in their homes at the moment and who simply cannot return because of the restoration, the review of the static and all that is not going well. I also sympathise with those who cannot achieve normal life habits because of what has been here for a month and two days are not connected to the gas and have no possibility of either heating or hot water. I also have to tell you that today, walking around the city of Zagreb, I have seen a number of more cranes that work take off chimneys, take off parts of the facades, and it all goes too slowly and too long and too slow. Of course, all of this was not deserved by Zagreb and Zagreb women, and it is normal that the city of Zagreb should have done much more for its citizens who pay the biggest tax in the Republic of Croatia and who simply do not deserve to be left to themselves. So to have protection, to have help we have both the state and the city, but our mayor who is essentially no longer my mayor and so I don't want to call him, instead of helping the citizens, he's going on his own way and he's spending our money the way he thinks it's appropriate. It is funny and amazing and sad and causes the indignation of all Zagreb and Zagreb Information that the money collected in a voluntary action for earthquake recovery in the city of Zagreb is spent in a way that money is won in non-competitions but directly by the contract of the party members Milan Bandić 365. It is a shame that during the earthquake and this epidemic, Mayor Bandic is assigning cult cinema to Europe also an institution dominated by members of his party. It is a shame that Mayor Bandic continues to take away the money of Zagreb and Zagreb and does not provide them with the minimum protection they need to be provided. It is a shame that the mayor of Zagreb Milan Bandic did not prepare the city of Zagreb for such a disaster. In the city of Zagreb, the first thing we have to do is change the mayor of Zagreb, we have to make a plan after that to rebuild the city of Zagreb, and first we need to rebuild health institutions and primary schools, kindergartens, secondary schools, educational institutions to ensure that our children are safe and that they continue teaching. What I want to tell you here now if you have time today at 19:00 if you are not happy with Mayor Bandic and if you want to send him a message to stop stealing our money and move away at 1900 hours to your balconies, windows of your houses and apartments and dedicate five minutes of banging pots to send him a loud message just as the earthquake in the city of Zagreb "goes"
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180885	Comrade Maras, you have spoken all your words, but please don't beat in the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180886	The gang's leaving.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180887	Based on an article. In 239, I give you a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180888	Now it is the SDP's Club of Representatives, respected counterpart Sasa Djujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180889	Thank you, Mr. President. Yesterday, Plenkovic boasted about the reforms and achievements of this government. The same government who boasted that she had suspended public procurement about three weeks ago. And in the meantime, his mail director buys under the Public Procurement Act at twice the price of equipment for 131 million kuna, and Resorna Minister Butkovic allegedly knows nothing about it. Not only is public procurement not suspended, but it's being conducted against the law. All this expensively resembles not so many long-standing corrupt actions related to this government, which must have left half of Plenkovic's ministers. The opposition, further yesterday, says Plenkovic has a lot of reasons to be dissatisfied. That's right. Like the dissatisfied citizens who have not forgotten how hard they have lived before this pandemic because of this government's inaction. So dissatisfied are we in opposition. We are dissatisfied to see how the HDZ corona profiters use this crisis to fill their own pockets, so the head of HEP under the auspices of Minister Coric and under the auspices of the Coronary Crisis of State Real Estates, Chief State Inspector Mikulić imprisons his own wife in the agency during the crown of the crisis without a public tender at the salary of 17,000 kuna while citizens, on the other hand, are increasingly suffering from the crisis. Until today, they have failed to agree on who is responsible and responsible for the death of 10 elderly people in the Retired House in Split. They say it is not HDZ's director, Škaricic, a megauhleb who has been silenced by a nurse for over 10 days, the same one who tried to warn about the symptoms of home users. As not guilty to the director of the nursing home in Koprivnica, people die, and nobody's to blame for them. While Minister Beros recommends wearing masks, the price of personal supplies and protective equipment flies to the sky. And what does this government do about it? As usual, nothing. They let the crown of profiteers get rich in someone else's accident. They also let banks make extra profits on the loan delay. They turned down our moratorium proposal on loans for a year, so they went directly to the interests of banks and large capital. No matter how much you recommend that we wear protective masks, you won't shut us up, you won't hide behind the virus anymore, and you'll be paralysing on the torture of the citizens, the public is waiting for answers, and the public is waiting for answers, but the honest one, if he can. What did you do in secret under the auspices of the coronacrisis and nights with the editors of some or rather privileged media? The Republic of Croatia is full of haughtiness, robbery, injustice, lies, fraud, nepotism, silence, corruption, chips and the Bandic-Plenkovic coalition. The Republic of Croatia is full of misery and poverty. Because of the late reactions of this government, over 30,000 people are out of work, people have lost their income for their families and can no longer pay loans, directors, rent. In fact, it's true that the Republic of Croatia is facing an economic breakdown because of unrecorded corruption and because of the last 3.5 years. No single reform has been implemented. During that time, the Republic of Croatia was systematically robbed. The Republic of Croatia is under the leadership of your government pessimistic, poor, over a million people live on the edge of poverty, and more than half of it are pensioners. Health care is due to numerous affairs and debts ahead of complete collapse. Educational reform does not exist. The security system has been breached, and the situation in the judiciary has never been worse. In the term of this government, our country has fled with its head, regardless of over 150,000 workers, mostly young people. Corruption has gripped all the pores of society. We are sinking on the corruption perception index, and the European Commission has pounded on us and sent us a message that we are the most corrupt country in the EU, which is not surprising when only 14 ministers had to leave this government because of serious suspicions of corruption, and this same government is being held in power by political corruption or by buying MPs in HS, and Plenkovic boasts yesterday by some so-called so-called government. The achievements of this government. One thing is certain, whenever there are elections, the citizens of the Republic of Croatia will say one big no-coron to the profiteers, calculators, corruption, chips because the citizens have not forgotten or forgiven you. It is time to make an inventory of this government's mandate and not just for the last month but for all four years, it is time to file an account for this entire term. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180890	The next club of MPs is the SDP on behalf of which the respected representative, Ranko Ostojic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180891	Your Honor, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Today the world is uniquely likely in the fight against the virus, it was also unique in another occasion, I hope it is important and therefore from this place I want to congratulate all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia on 1 May, 1 May, the day that should be the day of a single fight for better working conditions. Since it is not the custom in the assembly to mark the holiday in the Republic then here I will do it on behalf of those who think it would be necessary. To all those who don't work, I want them to get the job, to all those who work to be paid for their efforts. I want everyone on the front line to stay healthy and I want everyone better tomorrow, healthy and happy May 1st. I will take this opportunity to remind myself of another forget, which is that on yesterday Ivica Racan died, a man who had never lost his cheek, the elections, but the truth is neither the next Prime Minister nor the Prime Minister and the man who 30 years ago ensured that we would win the democratic elections without incidents, did not honor this assembly. However, my main topic is about 49 residents at home in Vukovar, I am talking about people who were evacuated on the night of the 8th, when Minister Beroš, along with Minister Bedekovic, came to Split and then said that someone knew someone had a fever and that was enough for sanctions. Of course, your speeches are clearly forgotten. From this case, they were only sent to nursing homes on 11 April, and by the evening before that, Minister Bedekovic said she had no information that the symptoms of people who were transported that night were happening. Unfortunately, 14 have passed away so far, although symptoms were then claimed to be mild. What I'm trying to say is that, of course, there's a Pedro, and the Pedro is a virus. It's so sad in this situation, that instead of the State's Attorney's Office being the only institution that can tell by its own word whether someone is guilty or not, we have various inspections, disappearances of the service book, statements, interviews by the defendants who need to self-evaluate themselves, it unfortunately happened. The headquarters went softly and noblely, everyone called, only rose petals were missing, and history as a life teacher can teach us one important thing, which is that every destabilising democracy, abuse of political power begins in the same way. 2 months later, we have a headquarters that is not even formalized through the ruling of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, consisting of professional political personnel of HDZ, without electoral legitimacy, suspending laws, the constitution as if it were the purchase of material for some kind of garage. The state, the euthanized assembly, has been shut down, trying to persecute people on the road, but must not be resented by those who think they will win the election. All the powers and laws they have rejected have failed to get through. However, I would like to send a message that crisis management with the likable thank-you Minister Beroshe has forgotten that there is a health system and all those who are currently expecting medical attention. 2 months are too long a period that is a situation in which he has to say only for the first 2 weeks of this crisis at the time of the frozen health we experienced the following, which is that 150 people died more than in the same period last year. Such figures are exponential in this respect, bring the system back, only 300 people are currently hospitalized in hospitals and you cannot ignore the health of the people of the Republic of Croatia that is their constitutional right and you need to stick to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180892	That's what we're done with today's work. We'll continue on Wednesday 6 May at 9.30 p.m., with an update on the agenda. Have a nice holiday and a weekend. Session adjourned at 13,15 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180893	Now it is the SDP and counterparts' Club of Representatives Ranko Ostojic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180894	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Honored President HS. 2.5. Addressed the public Blaženko Boban, the mayor of Split-Dalmatia, falsely representing himself as chief of staff or head of the Split-Dalmatia County headquarters and as spokesman for the national headquarters spoke about the inspection report which the national headquarters only mentioned the day before, estimating it in a simple sentence, which was that everything was great or that everyone followed the rules. My question is, what if they didn't follow the rules? Today we already have 18 deceased, and the situation in that nursing home is best depicted by how the lying situation is actually happening, with alleged expertise and so forth. So that's the same conference 2.5. Blaženko Boban said that on 8 April, the day after the evacuation, I received a report from the director of the home and principal of the teaching public health office on that afternoon on 9 April and in agreement with the resolution ministers, Minister Beros and Minister Bedekovic agreed on their arrival in Split. Very nice because he obviously did not notice that Minister Beroš was in Split on April 8th. He was in Split without waiting for any arrangements or anything, and then he said the following, if someone knew that the protégés had a temperature, that's a valid reason to bring sanctions. Minister Bedekovic said new instructions would come out of this case, even more detailed than those that exist and the fact is that we need to learn something from this situation because it is a situation we have not met before. That mass grave at this point that happened is just a picture of how it actually treats those that are most vulnerable. According to the epidemiological findings made etc., it was reported that during the time the visits were banned and all the infections that occurred by the staff. These are the statements of an epidemiologist from Split. Of course, that's when you start talking in the plural. Before that, 29 people reportedly had a fever. However, then it is mentioned that for 10 days it has been very clear or very simple and my question is, would any of you or anyone in the headquarters of your family allow for 10 days to have a temperature, symptoms or such, without reacting to it, especially in this situation? And of course, who's to blame? It's the virus, that's what's been officially said. But what's true, and that's that all this time we're actually forgetting the fact that, recently after the evacuation, they're a certain measure by the state's attorney's office, which is to carry out the reconnaissance. And no one should say anything, but it seems there may be a death here waiting for those who would be the main witnesses in all this. First of all, I'm thinking of the head nurse who obviously acted according to all the instructions and rules because she informed the epidemiologists on the 29th, the 7th, we had an evacuation situation. So the real question is, is this actually a legal coup? Is this a situation where we have a variant that the headquarters obviously has the highest judicial authority? I am Minister Bošnjakovic's pie here, is it true that it is an independent judicial body? He confirmed it to me and said the situation wouldn't happen that they'd do it right. Well, now I'm interested in when it's finally going to be and the only body that could determine whether someone is guilty or not and possibly blame the virus, and it's possible in these conditions, but I'm interested in when that finding is finally over or we're going to wait for everyone to die who might be questioned, with whom you might be talking and who might be telling the real truth about whether or not everything has been done by the rules. in a nursing home [[Intruder: Thank you]] a nursing home in Vukovar. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180895	It is now up to Mr. Gordan Maras, who will speak or present the views of the Club of Representatives of the SDP, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180896	Thank you very much. My colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs. Dear citizens, especially here I address Zagreb and Zagreb because of today's situation in St. John's Square. Marka, i.e. at a session of the City of Zagreb Assembly where several representatives, or all representatives of the opposition in the City Assembly of 20 of them, organized a physical session in St. Mark and thus joined the work of the City Hall. What did they do that for? They made it because HDZ and Mayor Bandic have been persistently avoiding the City Assembly physically for 2 months to discuss and make certain proposals to help the citizens of the city of Zagreb. They refuse to take responsibility, refuse to give certain measures, refuse to hear criticism of the citizens at their expense, and it is embarrassing, colleagues and colleagues, dear fellow citizens, that 140 years ago when Zagreb hit a devastating earthquake, the Assembly organized in a few days. Now HDZ and Mayor Bandic do not want for months to be held by the City Assembly, to adopt certain measures. After such a assembly began its work, after the representatives of the opposition in St. Mark possessed St. Mark's Square. Marka and began to participate in the work, appeared to boast Prime Minister Plenkovic who began to hold lessons by leaving the government of the Republic of Croatia, collapsed on MPs and asked them what they were doing, which is why they organised the session, that he was communicating with all of Europe yesterday, and now see them here in St. John's Square. Marka, one in boast, inappropriately, was treated with MPs in the City Assembly and showed the right face of HDZ and his right face and nervousness, and on the other hand, protection and protection of criminal authorities in the city of Zagreb, which, by the way, tried and dissipated opposition representatives because they sent, imagine, as if we were in a place 100 years ago where the riots were spreading, sent a vehicle of the city's purity to try to dissipate representatives in the City Assembly. This is HDZ for you, it is the mayor of Bandic and that is how much they care about democracy and citizens of the city of Zagreb. And one more thing. Today, in the government of the Republic of Croatia, there was not a single proposal legally that would define the solution to the problem of Zagreb and Zagreb. We're looking for a law to restore Zagreb, he's gone. The HDZ obviously wants to disband the Croatian parliament sooner, to go to elections than it is for them to make a law that could help our citizens, so that we do not wait for months of hot water, heating, so that they do not wait for someone to say, here, we will help, we will stand behind you while you rebuild your houses, roofs and chimneys, so that citizens do not welcome the autumn and winter practically on the street. It's your HDZ and that's Milan Bandic. It is a shame that HDZ is more thinking about its chairs, about parliamentary elections than about helping the citizens of the city of Zagreb. We have to punish them in the election, we have to show them that what they're doing is pig shit. That what Prime Minister Plenkovic is doing in such a staunch way, that it is invisible, even in the Republic of Croatia, and beyond, the Prime Minister who comes to call, discuss with opposition MPs who are the only thing they want, that they can say something live to the mayor and his administration that does nothing. Imagine what their crime is. They want to make it clear and loud about what is wrong and clear and loud about what they would do. On the other hand, Bandića protects Plenkovic because he enjoys his corrupt fruits, his authorities for 3 and a few years in the city of Zagreb and almost 4 in the Republic of Croatia. Unfortunately, we have this in the city of Zagreb today, unfortunately we will have to fight it in parliamentary elections because unless the government changes, unless Plenkovic changes, Bandic will remain calm and calm. Protected from criminal questioning and from doing nothing. The partners of the faithful Bandic and Plenkovic will continue to destroy Zagreb further. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180897	Since we are all those who have applied for a position on behalf of the club here, I suggest that we take the stand immediately, so first of all, the respected representative Karolina Leakovic will speak on behalf of the SDP. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180898	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I would like to warn in these next few minutes about the behaviour of the Rector of the Zagreb University of Damir Boras, his autocratic and arbitrary management of the University of Zagreb. In fact, the Senate of the University of Zagreb, according to the directive of the Rector Damir Boras, refused to confirm Neven Jovanovic, a candidate who had already been voted by the Faculty of Philosophy in February. The session of the Senate at the University of Zagreb, which was decided on, was held in inappropriate circumstances, members and members of the Senate could only manifest themselves on the proposal for a decision on short-term consent only by e-mail, without the possibility of asking questions, without the possibility of debate and without the possibility of actually showing the motion itself on such a rector's proposal for a decision. Moreover, the programme of candidates for the dean was not even delivered to them within the appropriate time limit, the reason for such a decision was delivered to the Senate only a few hours before the session, although of course he had two months. However, on the side of the administrative procedure and organisational failures of the rectors and Senates, which are evident and are actually referred to by the Croatian not only academic public this week and last. In this case, as in some before, a democratic procedure has been suspended at Zagreb University. The University Senate does not decide transparently, publicly and reasonedly. The university rector manages its trustees as if it were his private property, not the public goods and the largest and most significant Croatian university. The mandate of the rector Boras will be remembered, or the mandates of the rector Boras will be remembered by a series of controversial decisions, such as the award of honorary doctorate Dragan Covic, the proposal of the Honorary Doctor Milan Bandic, the award of honorary title of Professor Emeritus Vlatko Previsic and a number of other decisions, and most of all by his attempts, repeated attempts to humiliate one of the members of the university, and this is the Faculty of Philosophy, which he was also a dean to whom neither he nor his trustees have ever succeeded. That's why this is causing a crisis, and that's why you're trying to take over the Faculty of Philosophy. The Rector Boras is obviously personally accounting with the Philosophy, disabling this institution autonomy in the choice of leadership and the way they are managed and not touching the fundamental postulates of academic freedoms and independence. The Rector obviously with Philosophy, with his workers, with his students and students has unexplained accounts and goes back to the time of the 2009 student blockade when students and teachers protested for commercialising higher education, Boras was of course on the other side. In 2016, when he was already a rector, he failed to join the Faculty of Philosophy and Catholic-Godology because even then teachers and students in Philosophy stood up against such a plan. Today, after the rector again makes it impossible for them to decide on the leadership but also on the direction of university development, students and employees are once again unique in the view that the humiliation of the Philosophy and the imposition of the will of the rector in the vengeful campaign will not pass. Mr. Boras' rectorial mandate was written long and wide, and the occasion was averted, every next decision by the Senate and the rector is only more questionable and embarrassing than the previous one. The University of Zagreb runs a person whose personal interests, financial interests, human resources, networking and advocacy are ahead of the interests of scientific honesty, professionalism, ethics, public goods and truth. The Rector Boras privatized the public good of the University of Zagreb. What the Rector Boras can't privatize and that's the Faculty of Philosophy and what he can't subjugate his teachers and his students, he wants to degrade, humiliate and, of course, destroy. That is why I, from this pay phone in the Croatian Parliament, use this opportunity to invite the Croatian public, academic community, students and students, citizens and citizens to resist such self-will as any other self-will of any other usurper of public goods together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180899	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180900	Now it's the SDP and counterpart Arsen Bauk's Club of Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180901	Dear President, dear colleagues and colleagues, the situation on the island of Brač reminded us that there is a thin line between the Covid free zone and the hotspot. So, there's only one little relaxation, regardless of what happened in KBC Split where they fired the patient, and they didn't test him who then came in close contact with a relative who cared about him, and then the infection spread to the number 41 yesterday and another 120 tests that, for which we didn't get the result, and as they keep me informed from Brač, there was suddenly a lack of transparency of the Department of Public Health of the County so that they no longer publish these partial results. This thin line is also shown on another example. Two months ago, all politicians said it would be what the profession says, it would be what the profession determines. The profession has set a little more stringent measures and politics has repeated that. The profession said that those who are in self-insulating are out of Malta not bioterrorists, the profession has determined that they are a serious threat to health and have begun to punish them by the basis of the law and the profession has determined many things. And then the party remembered that we should go to the election and witness the daily abuse of the profession by the party at 14 o'clock. When people from the profession have to answer political questions the way the party imagined. Then more people in self-insulation aren't bioterrorists than just those who didn't get sick, so they can go to the polls if that's what they're gonna do. Then the party said no one was to blame in that home in Split, so the waist had to say it was the virus. Then the party said it shouldn't work on Sundays, so it's an epidemiological measure Sunday. And a lot of things the party said that the waist had to confirm. I'll repeat at 2:00 a.m. every day we testify to the abuse of the profession by the party. It will be as the waist decides it will be as the party decides, and the fact that it should have been the policy we proposed when the Law on the Protection of the public against infectious diseases was passed. We proposed that the headquarters's powers be given to the government, because all decisions to be made since then are political decisions. The balance between economic activities that enhance or improve a slightly more free regime and measures that prevent the spread of viruses which, of course, favour a somewhat stricter regime. That balance is a political, not a professional, not a health decision. At least we know that. That is why we bear witness that every day it is irretrievably destroying the authority of the people who defend political decisions in front of the profession. Since they are not eternal in political speech, they slowly turn into clowns who have to explain each sentence four times. Why did you bring them to such a situation by your colleagues of HDZ? You should have done what every athlete does at the top of his career. When you changed the Law on the Protection of the public against infectious diseases, you put the Staff in advisory function and enforcement, and the Government in those making decisions. This is how people who have enjoyed the confidence of citizens lose their trust slowly but irrevocably, and the greatest danger is that both the logical and good decisions that the headquarters makes to make people look at them with contempt because they consider them political decisions. In the name of the health of all of us, I call upon the party to stop abusing the profession. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180902	Now it's Mrs. Devereaux's turn. Sabina Vosovac, who will be the position of the SDP Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180903	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of HS, dear colleagues and colleagues. The only concern to this government is that as soon as possible, the positive perceptions of citizens related to the work of the National Staff and the Government of the Republic of Croatia in this crisis and on this wave, organise the elections as soon as possible. All other decisions are collateral victims of preparations for elections, as well as parents, students, and especially graduates. Fiasco for the fiasco. The first fiasco decision to return to school where we saw that somewhere around 2% of parents only told the government that, we believe in you because you can guarantee us safety for normalising education processes at our school and safety, our children's health security. So, on that exam, the government fell completely. The next decision he gets into is a post-poo state graduation. On 8 June, the Government of the Republic of Croatia decided that Plenkovic and Divjak would begin their graduation by passing the first exam in a row. It's the 25th day until the state's graduation, exactly 17 working days until the first state graduation exam. Come on, thank God after 2 months you finally know what students lay down even though they were kept in suspense, know when they are and that's at least something that took two months of suspense to come out with this information, complete confusion, holding graduates and parents in suspense, driving them crazy. Now everything's in school. HZZ's instructions are also known under which conditions the graduation will be written. Completely different conditions, a major challenge for directors, test coordinators, teachers and teachers who will be on duty at the State Graduation exams, for children and for parents. Thus, in these instructions published on 8 May on 4 pages of HZJZ, among other things, it says that the State's graduation cannot be accessed by an access to a self-insulation measure and the COVID infection has been identified. Not only that, students who will be able to enter the building and join the state prom will have to sign the following statement, similar to what parents had to sign when they wanted to transfer responsibility to them to send their children to school, and in a statement they will have to enter the room, into the school building, access to state graduation, content says HZJZ, name, last name, must specify the class department that attends the OIB. Among other things, they have to sign the following, I declare that I do not have signs of acute respiratory disease that may include fever, cough, difficulty breathing, smell and taste disorders, and I declare that I will not be able to access the state graduate exams if I have these symptoms during the exams. Also, I declare that I am not prescribed a measure of self-insulation, that I have no knowledge that I am infected/infected with a new coronary virus and that I will not access the exams of the state's graduation if I am told a measure of self-insulation or if I am aware that I am infected, infected with a new coronary virus at the time of the exam. It was published on May 8th. Just 3 days after Mr. Capak's press conference on 11 May, he declares the following about seniors and self-insulation. So they're asked here to sign that they're not in self-insulation, or those who are in self-insulation can't go to the state's graduation exams, and 3 days after he cancels what was said and published in the official instructions of HZJZ and says that people in self-insulation are not sick but were in contact, so they're at increased risk, it's a reservoir from which they recruit more positively. I don't think it's a problem that they vote remotely, but if they put on a mask and have no symptoms, they'll be able to vote. And today we had a debate about graduation. Well, kids who are in self-insulation could do the same with a mask to write a prom. Come on, people, make a deal. Come on, be normal, be responsible, and make a deal. So it's only when you think you've established clear rules, that you've relieved the graduates of uncertainty that you're doing the circus again. Can children who are in self-insulation go to prom or can't go to prom? Should they follow the instructions you prescribed on May 8th or what you said at the press conference on May 11th?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180904	Thank you very much. Now it's Mr. Peja Grbin's turn to be a representative of the SDP Club's position, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180906	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I intended to start this position in a completely different way, but after Mr Raguž's speech from the HDZ Representatives' Club, I was forced to look back on the same thing. Everyone who listened to that speech is probably amazed by what they heard and not, respected colleagues and colleagues, it is not a return to the past because what Mr. Raguž announced is a dark future that HDZ has threatened the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. I guess by the example of his partners from the Fidesz party, Orbano's party in Hungary who these days arrests the opposition who dares to write negatively about it, HDZ has announced that all of us who are Ustashas will be war criminals and that in Bleiburg there were exactly those Ustashas, so war crimes, for all of us, we are destined to be punished. I guess that's the electoral program HDZ plans to go to elections with this year 2020, but we have to say one decisive no. And after this necessary depression, I'm going back on the subject, which may be why HDZ's playing these embarrassing suggestions. Probably because he doesn't want to hear about what's going on in Croatia today. It is likely that everyone who monitors the support knows that from the start of HDZ has sent a message that the employer may pay less than he has received from the state for the worker. So the state will pay the worker 4 grand, the employer for the worker 4 thousand kuna, and then she doesn't care how many of those 4 thousand kunas will come to the worker. However, respected colleagues and colleagues, HDZ today decided to move forward. Today, he sent a message that not only can workers be paid less than the state gives for the worker, but it is a job message that employers are allowed to fire those workers for whom they received support. There's a question on HZZ's pages. Can employers who received compensation, support for workers for March 2020 and fire the same workers on 1st of April 2020? HZZ response is possible. There are no sanctions for the above mentioned. I can fire. From day one, we have pointed out a major problem with this measure because it does not help workers. It helps employers, and we don't have any problem with helping employers to preserve jobs, but if you, if you prescribe that these support workers can be fired, then respected colleagues and colleagues, there's no talking about preserving jobs. This is unfortunately another measure that the HDZ has shown that it is unable to run the Republic of Croatia, that it does not understand the economy and what is worst, that workers and workers of Croatia care. Mr. Aladrovic, the resolute minister of the past days has feared those who pay dividends and receive support. Since the first day of this measure, we've warned him of this problem, but it must have taken him two months to figure it out. However, this is colleagues and colleagues far worse than that. This clearly sends a message, you take the money, and for the workers, who cares. Because if you can get support and then fire the workers, then that job-preserving thing has nothing to do with it. And you know what the worst part is? Where did the money come from for that measure? Out of the 500 million kunas that were intended to help disabled people to be employed, to find a job, this was meant for the money that today ended with those who fired workers or those who as closed bookshops indeed, but do not really create any special added value. At first, we knew that the measures the HDZ was taking had no criteria, but this is even worse than that. This is an indication that there are no criteria for the payment of strong millions from the state budget, but that there is no concern about the consequences of such behaviour for Croatian workers... Thank you. [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180907	Excuse me, time. Mr. Ragug has committed a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Excuse me, time. Mr. Ragug has committed a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180909	Article 238. Comrade Grbin, you have shown by referring to my free speech that the SDP is not at the level of European democratic parties that have shown by adopting a resolution in the European Parliament that have the same attitude towards crimes and communism and fascism. If you justify crimes against captured Croatian soldiers and civilians for tens of thousands, you accept genocide against the Croatian people.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180910	Thank you. The breach of the Rules of Procedure is not because, it has not been considered. 238, as you said, no other article, but this one I gave you the opportunity to say what you think, as I'm going to give the opportunity to say what he means by hurting Mr. Peggy Grbino's Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180911	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague was injured by an officer. 238, he deeply insulted me and the party I belong to. The SDP and I have always personally condemned crimes, always, always without exception. However, what you have announced is not a condemnation of crime, it is an announcement of the persecution of those who question the character of the Ustasha regime and those who are before 75. ran off with their heads, no matter what, from Zagreb, wearing that gold. Dear colleagues and colleagues, what you said has nothing to do with the connection and just get out of what you did earlier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180912	Dear Representative Arsen Bauk will present the position of the SDP Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180913	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. At the end of World War II across Europe, there was mass revenge on the Nazis and their helpers, from which France was not immune. The right-wings claimed that at the end of the war without trial, 105,000 collaborators were liquidated, while de Gaulle confessed only 10842 executions without a court ruling, leaving his words remembered, the figure is painful, but limited in view of the terrible crimes they committed and their consequences. The subsequent evaluations of French historians confirm a figure of at least 50,000 Nazi associates were executed without a court ruling. In Yugoslavia, what happened elsewhere in Europe happened at the end of World War II. There was complete lawlessness, lawlessness, of course, with the knowledge and permission of the new regime at the time of vengeance and reckless killing of prisoners and collaborators. And elsewhere, after World War II, there have been terrifying crimes. More than 10 million Germans were exiled from Eastern European countries after Hitler's defeat. There have been cases of ethnic cleansing. Several hundred thousand Jews who survived the war were exiled from Eastern Europe. The Poles chased the Ukrainians, the Ukrainians of the Poles, the Russians exiled the Finnishs, the Slovaks and the Romanians Hungarians, the Bulgarians chased their Turks, the Greeks chased the Albanians away. The Yugoslav Italians also say. In that post-war vengeful orgy, there have been liquidations of defeated forces that have never been sanctioned, and only with us has it become genocide over the disarmed Croatian people. The answer is simple. Whatever the major crime of the winner is, then it's supposed to be a minor crime of collaborators, no matter what the greater victim of post-war liquidations, it's easier to turn criminals into victims. Then these two crimes, co-laborationist and communist, are easier to level, and then their collaboration becomes more acceptable. Regardless of all attempts at relativisation, we must not be the ones to deny the crimes that occurred after World War II. It's 18 today. Since the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia and SDP's first president, Ivica Racan, came to Bleiburg for the first time. I'll read what he said about that anniversary. Maybe he'd say some different expressions, but it'd be the same. Today I express my condolences and regret for Bleiburg. If it wasn't for those who had to do it over and over again, it was for us, even though at the time of the evil of Bleiburg and Jasenovac we were neither born nor born. We cannot change the past, we cannot even calm all those who participated in past bloody conflicts, but it is very important that yesterday's conflicts do not encourage new and current conflicts, it is very important that yesterday's hatred is not passed on to new generations whether we want to preserve and preserve democratic Croatia. Today's Croatia condemns every crime precisely because it is built on the foundations of democracy and antifascism of a decisive rejection of every extremism in the name of which the crimes of every policy, every totalitarianism, left and right, red or black are committed. The Bleiburg accident and the crossroad is huge. We should remember her as a warning. Bleiburg is a warning and testimony to a crime that cannot be repeated. So right here I want to repeat once again how important it is to respect human rights, human lives, and to endure understanding, tolerance and peace. Imprisonment, 12 / 15 May 2020 Bleiburg. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180914	The next club of MPs will be the SDP on behalf of which the respected representative Gordan Maras will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180915	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'm going to use a slightly more unusual expression today, and I'm going to give the last speech from Rock Opera "Lobec-Bag" or his swearing sword where people who are oppressed, who are left behind, are saying they're going to rise up and achieve their freedom. On this side it is embarrassing for colleagues and colleagues, which today on the most embarrassing day of HS Prime Minister Plenkovic to flee from the citizens of the City of Zagreb to the back entrance and try to disband HS before bringing... /The speakers speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180916	I'm sorry. Is that somebody's cell phone ringing and distracting the esteemed representative, Maras?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180917	It doesn't bother me. I want to talk about this is an oath to Croatian citizens, today is not the end, today is just the beginning. We'll drive the thieves away, and we'll make those who left you hanging. We won't let you down. The tokens that helped HDZ do Zagreb will not see the Parliament in the next session and believe me, the HDZ and the mayor Bandic will pay the citizens of the City of Zagreb a political price for what they did to Zagreb. Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs, today tens of thousands of our citizens do not know where to sleep, do not know how to restore their apartments, and HDZ and Prime Minister Plenkovic chose their chairs. All those who today support the disbandment of the Parliament have chosen their chairs, not those who need help. See what the capital looks like after 60 days of earthquake, the city center full of bricks, full of silence. Shame on you. You betrayed Zagreb. You have no right or responsibility to represent the construction of the City of Zagreb anymore, but you can also see that the citizens of Croatia would treat them if such an accident happened to them. It's a shame you haven't done anything for 60 days. Today we have heard litany, thanks, what are the representatives who support HDZ here to thank, which voters should be sending messages to? That for four years they allowed an unlegal government to lead the Republic of Croatia, to do everything in their power to keep their chairs. When Agrokor's law was to be passed, when Martina Dalic was to incriminate her friends, the law was passed in ten days, when 20, 30,000 Zagreb law was not available for 60 days and the message is here for HDZ to wait. I'm ashamed to be part nine. I call on HS and apologize to all citizens of Zagreb and Zagreb for being part of this circus, Andrej Plenkovic. We will do everything for the next two months until parliamentary elections so that they no longer decide in the Republic of Croatia, that such as those such as Hungarians who have betrayed their voters, like those who have been among them from the beginning, is a lot of representatives who are now part of the Milan Bandic club who support those who have done nothing for the citizens of the City of Zagreb. And so at the end of once again, this session, this day is not the end, this is the beginning of a change in the Republic of Croatia. We will change those whose only interest is in their chair and who don't care at all about those who need help, and we need to help many citizens and blocked and protected tenants and those who have been killed in the earthquake and those who have lost their jobs and those who have done so should be helped. Croatia needs a reboot and I hope that for this reboot of colleagues and colleagues, dear fellow citizens and fellow citizens we will have your support. We're not gonna end up here, and like the leper-ass says in this dental floss. We'll charge you for all that. Zagreb won't forgive you for that. Thank you very much, and I wish you every good, and I hope you can sleep peacefully after this day and you, Mr. Radin. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180918	- Mrs. Crescent. Maria Puh, who will be the position of the Club of Representatives of the Party of Labour and Solidarity of Independent Representatives, pay attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180919	Dear colleagues and colleagues, dear Vice President HS, here, unfortunately last Saturday in Zagorje, there was an unremembered tragedy in which the lives of six people were lost. First, she would like to express her deepest condolences to the families and acquaintances of the victims. There was also a danger of much greater tragedy, but thanks to the professional and rapid reaction of our firefighters, there was no expansion of the fire to the neighbouring facility in which other residents were stationed at home. The problems of nursing homes and relations with the old and powerless today have been mentioned on several occasions, and I believe that this is one of the things that needs to be dealt with urgently because unfortunately we are the state that aged and day by day there is a need for more and more places in nursing homes. Unfortunately, while housing in public homes is limited due to insufficient coverage, it has been said for a long time about the private opening of nursing homes, which are unfortunately referred to in the jargon as a great business. And of course, everything would be fine if regulations and conditions had to be respected so that people in those homes could be placed and live happily and satisfactorily. Unfortunately, however, a large majority is a priority on how to make as much money as possible with as little investment as possible, and this often goes to the detriment of their customers. But that I actually go back to what I want to talk about, which is firemen. Our firemen have done a great job, as always, and I congratulate them on that. There are 81 DVDs in the area of Krapina-Zagorje County with 2 JVP, and the tradition of fire is more than 155. In Krapina-Zagorje County, we have more than 12 operational firefighters, which places us at the very top of the Republic of Croatia and I think we can be proud. Also, Krapina-Zagorje County is at the top of the population density, which means that if there is a fire or any disaster, the chances of damage being not only material, but also in human lives are greater. Talking to firefighters, I often got worried about the outcome of any interventions due to the state of the equipment they have. Both counties and units of local self-government participate in the financing of firefighting and most often with resources significantly higher than those prescribed by law because they themselves are aware that if there is any kind of accident, DVDs are the first and closest to help, but unfortunately these reinforced funds are often not enough for concrete investment in equipment. The fleet they have on average is older than 25 years old, and although it is regularly maintained, they are not sure that every time their emergency exit to the intervention is needed will be useful or their trucks will work or not. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. by October, so in 9 months in our county, firefighters had 652 interventions, which means actually that in Krapina-Zagorje County, on average more than twice an intervention. Since 1 January this year, a new Fire Department has entered into force, which formed the State Fire Department. I believe that after a few months, we will have feedback on the application of the law itself and its efficiency, and my appeal is that during future acquisition and distribution of equipment and equipment of fire companies, the condition and age of equipment held by Zagorje firefighters and the density of population are not measured by one life lost. She wouldn't want us to get back into a situation where after some future tragedy, we ask ourselves what could have been done and who could have done it. We need to react on time and prevent any possibility of ever getting into a situation so that we have to wonder how something happened and why it happened. Zagorje firefighters deserve better equipment and I don't want to find ourselves again in a situation where I hear from the president of the fire department that he's afraid of intervention because he's not sure how it's going to go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180920	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180921	We are also going to the last debate today, dear colleague Ivica Misic on behalf of the Party of Labour and Solidarity and Independent Representatives Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180922	Thank you, President of the Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I wonder where we're going, what direction is this country? Who is trying to determine our future by saying about a five-pointer in Rijeka who is some artist, a Rijeka artist, Nemanja Cvianovic, is trying to symbolize again and return the five-pointer as a symbol of Croatia and Croatia, knowing that Rijeka is now chairing the European Capital of Culture, I personally wonder why it always happens by what happens in this Croatian state? Why didn't we judge that same five-pointer? Whether this same artist Cvianovic could have put the symbol of Vukovar, he could have put the Vodotoranj Vukovar in Rijeka, to see how the five-pointer entered Vukovar, how it destroyed the Croatian state, how we did not condemn it and why we did not condemn it, I ask myself a question. Unfortunately, our Minister Obuljen too, she said, is an artistic expression. Gentlemen, we have to stop once, we have to say, quite five-pointer, we have to condemn her, enough of the things that happen in this Croatian state. It would be appropriate to mark Vukovar as a symbol of the struggle for the Croatian state, probably those tanks that entered Vukovar Chetnically came out of the shadows of some... Of course, if it were the former JNA countries, Yugoslavia, which with a five-point star killed so many people in Vukovar, killed so many people in this last time in Croatia, that someone today would enjoy and return to 45. It's not just the issue of that No Nemanje Cvianovic, who, of course, does not want to put it, who wants to idealize the five-pointer, who wants to raise the five-point star from the left-hand side of SDP. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Maybe on May 25th, maybe they'll put that same one back on, that same skyscraper built once an Italian Italian something, an army while it was still 41st in, and they put their five-point symbol up there. It's not just him, the question is, here's Beljak, a colleague who said the other day that more people were to be killed, we know that UDBA did what she did, so he needed more, unfortunately. We're sitting in the Parliament, a colleague said they haven't finished the job since 45th, that we should finish, someone said we're a random state, so now the narration here is the president, can't be on Mark's square, they might be bothered by this Church of St. Mark and we'll do it, lower the value of the president of the state, while we watch the English hold their queen, their tradition. We want to bring down our tradition, the one we had, which we knew, knowing that Radic had been killed in Belgrade. That to this president... The HSS doesn't mean anything. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I'm asking you here and I'm asking myself, where are we going, what are we doing? Whether this ideology of communism should have been condemned in the Croatian state and not. What have we been wandering about for the last 30 years? Why do we not make it clear that we have monuments with Chetnik features in Croatia? Why don't these monuments collapse? We here in this country and this House don't want to talk about it. I want you to talk about this Homeland War which now and these our defenders who didn't get what they were supposed to get. Not even a pension, but some of the fake ones that need to be investigated and, of course, kicked out. Why isn't that done in this country? For what? I don't know. I know, not that I don't know, I know. Why is this idealism of communism protected? How many pits and all around. We all know. The other day I was in Savina, so I was in a barn, saying it here. 558 people were killed in a barn where no one remembered... in the whole village, where only such a.../incomprehensible... there are such 10 of them. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Where 11,000 people were killed in this communism, about that five-pointer. Today we were killed under a five-pointer, not to mention Bleiburg and caves everywhere in Croatia that no one will condemn and that everyone puts under the carpet. Gentlemen, we need to be clear, we need to know what we're going to and where we're going and we need to condemn that communist crime they committed in II. Holy shit. A war today that wants to bring him back to the scene. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180923	The following is the Club of Representatives...... /Sabolek:... crime.... [[You don't understand.]] That Party of Labour and Solidarity of Independent Representatives on behalf of whom the respected representative Maria Puh will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180924	Thank you, Vice President. Here I would use these five minutes to introduce our citizens to tomorrow's Red Dress Day, which is held in various places of the Republic of Croatia, and that day is intended to raise awareness of the stroke and the dangers that come from the stroke. Unfortunately, stroke is a global epidemic that endangers lives, which threatens human health and, unfortunately, endangers the quality of life among the sick. The leading cause of death in the world is a stroke while in the Republic of Croatia since the stroke mortality is second in line. Why are the red dresses and why are the red dresses expressed tomorrow? Because of the stroke, women are particularly threatened. Even one in five women gets a stroke. Here we are in the 6 women's assembly, unfortunately we look at each other, the big statistical variants are God forbid but one of us suffers this disgusting disease. Also, since the stroke, twice as many women die from breast cancer. Also a stroke is the first cause of women's disability. Why is it very important to talk about the stroke and consequences it brings? According to the European report, one in five people does not recognize any symptoms of stroke in another person. Only half of the people would notice that something was going on with the person who had a stroke would call an ambulance. This has shown European research. Unfortunately, the symptoms appear very quickly and sometimes they disappear very quickly and they can be different depending on which part of the brain they're guessing. As the most common way to recognize whether a person has a stroke and is having a stroke is to follow his face, hands and speech, so these are three basic ways, and I call on all of you to respond tomorrow and the next day to the actions that are being held on Red Dress Day, to study the Internet a little bit and look for the symptoms of a stroke because you never know when you might be in a situation where someone can save their lives if you know it, so I think that's the most important step in fighting a stroke of education. Why education? Because we can learn primarily how to prevent the causes of the stroke itself, how to change our lifestyle, and thus reduce the risk of one day having a stroke and on the other hand getting to know the symptoms that cause a stroke, that we can help ourselves or someone else if they experience a stroke. So I invite you all together to respond as much as possible to the action, to get acquainted with the symptoms of stroke, and especially with my Zagorce, I call on Wednesday to the stands to be held in Krapina at the beginning of 6:00 p.m. on the subject “Man is a medicine – prevention of stroke”. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180925	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180926	And the latest statement of views on behalf of the club of representatives on behalf of the Party of Labour and Solidarity Club and independent representatives of counterpart Ivica Misic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180927	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I'm going to say something about BiH and the Serbian Republic today. I have to, do we get any calls that our Croats in the Serbian Republic are very, very threatened. What is happening in the Serbian Republic as our Croats in the Serbian Republic who are exiled, not exiled or expelled means Croats who should not even return to Republika Srpska? It is unfortunate that it has been 27 years since the beginning of the war to this day that these people have no right to survive and to their future. That is what Bishop Komarica tells you on TV that in the Serbian Republic the country is being taken away from the Croats, that the Church is being taken away from the country, that the Constitution of BiH is not being respected, that the state is not functioning, so absolutely not, how the Croats stay in that state. We here in Croatia and in this House are talking about minority rights, of course, that everyone and everyone in this country and this minority country have rights and should achieve them. We are talking about the rights of the sovereign people in BiH, and what is sovereignty, what is happening with sovereignty that you cannot build houses on your country in your village and cannot be the owners of that property. Now Republika Srpska's policy makes the law to take away property from Croats who are not present in those parts. Since the Croatians were exiled in both America and England and Australia and Germany do not even know what is going on in Republika Srpska, what is going to be done of all this, and we know well that the Bosnian Posavina was a majority Croatian people, we know well that in Banja Luka it was fed by 30% of Croats, we know well that in Prijedor and around that in the Sanja Most, they lived next to the Croatians. Why won't we have them today? Is this perhaps the end of our people in Bosnia? We are wondering what Europe is doing, what the international community is doing, what the Serbian Republic is doing, what are all the politicians of Croatia in BiH doing, what are some of our politicians sitting in the Serbian Republic Assembly who are not seeking, who are not asking, who are not begging, what have policies done so far, what has the policy of exiled 200,000 Croats done to bring them back to their homes, to build them houses? If Bosnia wants to go to Europe, and we know how to behave if we are to be a European part of the world, the Croats have fought for the whole of BiH, the Croats have recognised BiH, and we have no rights in the Serbian Republic, but we also see in the Federation that we are losing certain places that we should have, we are chosen by others. I ask the question, how much of it we need and I wonder who is at risk in this Europe today, are threatened by Croats in Bosnia, threatened, exiled, exiled. Today, we are more concerned with these Syrian refugees, which, of course, requires people to help, I am not against it, no one is involved in journalists or politicians about Croats from Bosnia. I now ask from here and I will beg the prime minister, here and now Milanovic is the president of the state so let him go to the Serbian Republic, let them talk, the prime minister was trying at least in the part where the highway was supposed to go, I thank him again, but this is not all over, this is just the beginning of something where the Serbian Republic wants to take away all the country to the Croatian people who are not there, and they are expelled and exiled. This is the issue that needs to be discussed in this country, we are the domestic people in BiH, so I propose and ask the government and foreign affairs to take care of a little because Komarica and Archbishop Puljic cannot resolve the issue of Croats over 200, 250,000 of us are not in Bosnia, and Bosnia is as we know, we are the oldest people in BiH before both Muslims and Serbs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180928	The next club of representatives will be that of the Labour Party and Solidarity and Independent Representatives on behalf of whom the respected representative Maria Puh will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180929	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Here we are today marking the Day of Pink T-shirts, that is, the day of battle against peer violence. The day began in 2007 in Canada when the entire class supported the boy who was abused because he came in a pink shirt to support his mother, and in 2017, he declared this High House last Wednesday on the Day of Fight against Peer Violence. We're talking about this day here at this pay phone because in the last few days we've really been flooded with all kinds of news, and they've all been heavily based on the coronary virus that's threatening us, but definitely today can't stay on the sidelines and can't be promoted in the media or anywhere else. It's important to talk about it and make people aware of the problem. In fact, the Royal College in London has been doing research that has shown very worrying data, which is that those who were victims of peer violence felt the consequences and 40 years after their abuse felt various physical, mental, and social consequences. So people who are abused at school and from their peers are prone to depression are prone to anxiety, and what is the worst of them is a terrible fall of self - confidence, and they often think of suicide very often. It's important to talk about it, it's important to focus on it in the same way that we've now dedicated ourselves to the coronary virus. So we have a station to fight the coronary virus, and I think we need an emergency headquarters to fight peer violence because our children, if they'll be healthier, if they feel better, we'll have a better future. What is still deeply concerned is electronic violence, which unfortunately is in growing growth and children all already have cell phones, laptops, tablets, unfortunately 5% of children have said that they are constantly exposed to abuse or abuse by their peers, while a slightly larger number of them have said that they have received some comment or mean message, but they have not looked back on it so much, but it has not been systematic. The government recently adopted an Action Plan to prevent school violence, but I think we should work a lot harder on it. That action plan prescribed certain procedures and all that, but I think we should talk to the kids more, talk to them in a way that they understand that the bad words that they say to each other leave lasting consequences on their friends or their acquaintances. Also one of the information that I came across and that should be taken into account, especially regarding this action plan, for the prevention of violence brought to the government, is that when a study among teachers in schools was conducted by the Poliklinic for the Protection of Children in Zagreb, 17.5% of teachers would most likely not react if they saw a bad message intended for another student because children write everything. I think it would be important to realize that it doesn't matter what children write, children should be warned that what is written can leave significant consequences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180930	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180931	Mr Ivica Misic will speak ahead of the Labour and Solidarity Party.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180932	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Yesterday we were on the Committee on Immigrants and were guests, as Miro Bulj spoke earlier, from neighbouring countries where our Croats live. So it was from Italy, Slovenia, Austria, Hungary, the Czech Republic, Romania, Bulgaria, Macedonia and Montenegro. It was nice to hear Croats living outside Croatia yesterday. I have to admit, I was glad to meet them the first time in five years, that people came to tell us what's going on and what's happening to them in the countries where they live. By listening to national minorities in Croatia and observing their rights, I got the impression that about and so I think that the best rights have minorities in Croatia, of all the neighbouring countries where we live. And especially Mr Furio, I'm going to say a little bit about the Italians, so let's see how many of our Croats have rights there. Not as much as you have here. The second thing, of course, is that they are not threatened as they are threatened in Serbia, Montenegro, Macedonia, BiH. We can't say, here, the Slovenians didn't recognize us as a minority even though there were 50 grand. We didn't admit 10 of them, I don't know why, but that's the truth. Montenegro our Croats are the most undesirable people in that country, so all the nations are more desirable in questioning, we were the last people to want Montenegrins to live in Montenegro. In Serbia, let's not talk. My colleague Bulj just said that not that they're threatened, not that they're harassed, but that there's a danger of living there. The other thing, they don't have any rights there, the elections come naturally, if you go through a party and you happen to come to their parliament, they don't stand a chance. We signed everything, we did everything, what we signed, and by the Constitution, I wonder who signed that he didn't say hard that we had to be participants in their parliament. It's embarrassing, but it's true. In Hungary, at least I can be in parliament, but I can't vote, I can't determine. In Austria, they also have problems, but they are a rich country, so it is less noticeable. In Macedonia, Macedonia here, the Macedonian minority gets some, how much, if I understand correctly, don't hold my word, 150 thousand euros a year, our people in Macedonia don't get 0 kuna, but nothing at all. So I'm asking you, who's threatened in this area, who's threatened in this country? In BiH, where I come from, what happens to Croatians who are betrayed, who have nothing of their own? They can't even go back to their homes, and God forbid someone from Croatia says that they need help and that Dodik presses to build those houses, to get people back, that's 200, 250 thousand people. The question is, what kind of policy are we running? What are we doing? Here, I've been on the board for five years, I wanted to visit everyone, see how they live, go to Serbia and Hungary, including Macedonia, we've been through 5 years. We should all hang out. We're not, of course, that we're not. We're only important to sit down, to talk, to not move anything. It's not a job. I don't think it's a job. The job is when we sit down, we settle, we go, we do the job, we do the job we can, and we can do a lot more than we do. I'd say the most important comfort is in the assembly, that I'm here, and everything else around me stands the way it is, the way it is. That's why we're developing slowly, that's why we're working slow, that's why we're slow, that's why our kids are gone from my Slavonia. We don't have 30. The railway connecting Vinkovci-Zagreb. No government is boredom, and here I hope this government is doing something else in that part, so why is that destroyed? Every two minutes the train passed through Vinkovce to the east, 3,000 people from Vinkovci worked on the railroad, today you pass 80, and it passed from 400 to 450 trains. I'm asking here a question to the public and everyone, what we do to be better, to be more concrete and Let's work, not talk [[Intruder: Thank you]] Like always? [[/Intruder: Thank you very much, thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180933	So if we want to do no one prevents us from doing this, I am four times, I have been to Italy four times, to the Croats, to Molise, and it is very far away Mr. Misic and I'm surprised that you, from, and I'm surprised that you from, from, from that committee, do not visit Croats outside the country, and that would be your obligation. I say I've been to them four times, and I'm considered at home by them, as at home I consider myself by them, and our constitutional obligation and your constitutional obligation is to visit them. Thank you very much. We move forward, tomorrow, not tomorrow, sorry, on Wednesday 11 March we continue at 9.30 with a report on the business of the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families for 2017. We still have 3 points left after this, which you can find naturally on the site. Session interrupted at 11.01 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180934	We are now going to the last debate, dear colleague Rechimer Varda on behalf of the Labour Party's Representatives' Club and Solidarity and Independent Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180935	Thank you very much. Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. I would also like to address fellow citizens and fellow citizens of the city of Zagreb on behalf of the club Party of Labour and Solidarity, independent representatives. First of all, I join the expressions of condolences to the families of Tsarevic whose 15-year-old daughter, Anamari, was badly injured in the earthquake, died. But immediately after the earthquake as you witnessed for an hour on the ground were all the city's municipal services, cleanliness, Zagreb roads, Zrinjevac, Water supply, Divinja, Plinara, Communal reding, Police and the Croatian Army, they have done thousands of actions so far. Just yesterday more than 500 emergency interventions were carried out. City services in cooperation with the army of the Republic of Croatia, fire departments from Zagreb that same day cleaned all the streets of the city, where I thank them all once again. Hundreds of construction profession volunteers went out in the field and worked from morning to late in the night for the first reconnaissance and first assessment of the state of the building's static to see if people can return to the facilities or have to replace accommodation. The citizens were provided with accommodations that were left without a safe roof over their heads in the student flower settlement, and 250 of them were given home last night as well as a warm meal provided by Zagreb's good home and Zagreb's Red Cross while Holding provided two free lines for people who needed accommodation or who were in any way affected by the earthquake. How was it possible to organize everything like this in such a short time? You know, thanks to the preparations and organization that the city of Zagreb, the City Emergency Office, led by Mr. Kalinic, made not only that day but far before, preparing and civil protection, informing built-up posters and lenses that we all received at home what to do in case of an earthquake. Some politicians in the City Assembly and the media and the public mocked, mocking those preparations, believing it was Kalinic playing, as a small child in kindergarten. Here's the score. At least if you don't apologize to him, and then at least praise everything I've listed so far. In the end, I would like to mention one problem that remains for us, which is the 5% amount that is recognised for the damage finally confirmed on the property of the individual damage as well as the time limit for reporting damage. I must say that the mayor of the city of Zagreb, who declared the elemental damage, addressed the Ministry of Finance with a request to extend the deadline that the Ministry of Finance and approved, so the new deadline for reporting damage was set in 30 days instead of 8 days, but we suggest that, given the level of payment for the determined damage, which is at present 5% of the amount of the damage finally confirmed, we propose to the Government to make a decision that this level of damage may be more than 5% of the final confirmed damage, and we will surely as a club in any case support such a decision. For the end of dear fellow citizens and fellow citizens, thank you for holding not only on this earthquake but all these days while we are fighting an epidemic of coronaryvirus, trying to come out of everything with as little damage as possible and with as few lives lost. Please, both personally and in the name of the club, continue to follow the notifications of competent staff and institutions that are doing everything possible to make us the winners of this battle. Do not subject yourself to false prophets, false medics, and populists, for with the help of hardworking people who, every day, expose themselves to numerous threats, care for our health and maintain all necessary functions. Together, thank all of them, doctors, nurses, emergency services, members of HV, police and civil protection, volunteers and our Zagreb municipal services. Be dear fellow citizens and fellow citizens responsible and protect yourself and your neighbors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180936	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180937	The club of representatives of the Labour Party and solidarity and independent representatives will also state their position on their behalf will be represented by representative Mladen Madjer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180938	Thank you. Dear Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. At first I thank all those who these days give each of their atoms of strength to help with these terrible disasters. We are going through a difficult time for Croatia, but time goes on and new challenges await us and we must not forget or destroy what we have at this time. I would speak primarily of the OPGs today even though my predecessors have already warned about the OPG problem. Unfortunately, this is a time when we need to do something more for our producers to stop the unprecedented imports that make us unfortunately addictive, and our OPG leads to economic downturn. We, as a particular Labour and Solidarity Party, have two concrete proposals regarding the OPGs. The first proposal is that, as soon as possible, people of all food chains are called together, both foreign and foreign, to present themselves at that meeting and ask them if they are willing to do something for the country they work in and live in for the people they earn and even profit out of it? Are they ready to take over agricultural and war products from domestic producers at a certain time? Ask them openly for the price, but make that price and document if there's a price they're currently selling goods. If there is a big price difference, some of our producers pay the one paid by imported goods abroad, and then the state should bear the cost of the difference and pay our producers who clearly have to come out with a single correct price. Unless they are willing to do so, a ban on imports of certain products should be considered, and also if the situation requires even introducing a state of emergency. We can't let us destroy our family farms. The second measure we are proposing, which was heard by the opening of markets, is in line with the instructions of the Civil Protection Staff. For example, it means that it can be organised, if you can organize purchases in large trade chains, I am convinced that it can also be organised in markets. Here's an example of how to fill each other's booth in each other's order to form an entrance with customer entry control, just as they are controlled in large chains where unfortunately the food that is imported is sold. Also, it is an opportunity that, under such circumstances, market entry is primarily made by our producers, not resellers and smugglers. There is also a need to limit the price in the markets. It's also better than destroying plastics, plowing vegetables, fruit and flowers. I also appeal to the Ministry of Agriculture and the Government of the Republic of Croatia to be paid within the shortest time limit of incentives to ensure the spring sowing, not to wait for a deadline of 30.6. when and the deadline for the last payment. These measures, by proposal, mean to the government we protect our producers because agriculture must not be stopped. And so I tell all those who fight to survive, to hold on, and to all of us to think carefully, if there is no agriculture, we would either be hungry or hungry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180939	Good morning dear colleagues and colleagues, we continue to work, on the first day of the week of the plenary session, free speech, the first is the honored colleague Mladen Madjer on behalf of the Party of Labour and Solidarity and Independent Representatives Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180940	I would like to thank the esteemed president of HS, dear colleagues and colleagues. It is clear that all those who are struggling with this virus, recognition to the Civil Protection Staff, but at this point may also need to make some suggestions on improving the functioning of certain things in the Republic of Croatia. Among other things, I'd like to say first of all about the OPGs, which I spoke at the last presentation, and this is about the markets. I welcome the clear and functioning of the line market although we are all aware that in the long term it is a big problem for all those who participate in it, meaning from their time, from those costs that they have with delivery, and clearly that they cannot charge the consumer a higher price. We warned that the government had to make an emergency meeting, an emergency meeting with all the food chains, that they had to force food chains to buy out all the products of our OPGs, they had to force them to. If the price is concerned, that the price is higher than our producers and less than the chains they sell, the State must participate in the settlement of that price difference. If not, it's a market opening. Here, Minister Bozinovic said yesterday that he was considering some ideas about opening markets. Markets must be opened immediately, they must be opened immediately, respecting the following measures of the Civil Protection Staff. And that's possible to make sure with the communal directors who will stand at the entrance and exit of the market, limiting people who will be in the markets. It is possible to do so and we must allow our OPGs to come to the market and sell. We have to let them do it if we're going to destroy this little production that we unfortunately have, to just remind them that last year we imported means a billion and 400 million euro of agricultural products. It will increase if we destroy this little bit of what we have, and unfortunately this is the time, maybe a moment to correct it. I'd also like to talk a little bit about issuing passes. It is primarily about the CAPs, or farmers, who are currently participating in the preparation, clearly will not this week, given that the big week is in preparation for spring seed. I think it's amazing that from one place where there's a distance even in one municipality is one street of the municipality that has to have a pass. We need to be a little more flexible, why these people, they go to their tractor, they're the only ones sitting in their tractor and going to their fields, they're going ora, they're going to prepare for spring seed, and we're burdening them to take out the pass. Well, I don't think that's necessary. Let's leave the people preparing the land, let them go into the seed, is it not clear to me, he won't transport the virus in his tractor, he won't infect in the field of rabbit, pheasant or deer, there's no one around. I think we should consider that. I also appeal to the government to call an emergency meeting with all the cereal buyers. We are followed by the sixth, seventh month of harvest, meaning wheat, oiled tail and barley. We need to consider the needs of the Republic of Croatia, how much the needs of the Republic of Croatia are to store it, to create, to buy out all excess products, to create supply supplies. We can't let the goods be exported. So basically if it's too big to make a way out. To ban the exit of this goods, which is very soon, and I think the government should sit down with all the redeemers as soon as possible. Of course there is, and I have pointed out that the Government must urgently pay off the incentives, should not wait 30.6., pay off the incentive for peasants, the OPGs for the spring seed, and I will do a little more about my proposal when the Agriculture Act comes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180941	The next statement of view is on behalf of the Labour Party Representatives' Club of Solidarity and Independent Representatives, the distinguished representative Ivica Misic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180942	Thank you, Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Since I can't keep track of time, I'd like to wish everyone to the Croats and everyone in the world a happy and blessed Easter. Of course, I want to say and thank our headquarters, our doctors, the police, the military and the firemen, the fans who helped even after this earthquake and this evil that happened in the world, the monster crown that covered the whole world. So we see that we're little in this world, that no one is the size, all the sizes are going down today until we solve the crown problem. Dear gentlemen, I know who is most endangered today, these are craftsmen and entrepreneurs and farmers. It's the farthest, farthest part of the world. Since I'm an entrepreneur myself, I know what happens when you come to a company closed, when you have workers and you can't function normally like a normal person. Why am I saying that? I'm not going to accuse anyone and say that it's easy for everyone in politics and anywhere, in the economy and in anything, but in the economy it's far, far the strongest, the worst. How do you solve the problem? Hardly. We all know that we have left Slavonia, we know that we have destroyed agriculture, we know that we have done nothing from war to this day, that Slavonia remains empty, that farmers can barely breathe. You see, today we don't have any more, we probably won't have the tourism that we should have, where we depended most and where we invested the most. I wonder if we invested in Slavonia, in fact I can't say it didn't invest, but it wasn't about investing and our agriculture got into trouble. We know the problem of Agrokor and everything else. But in the end, I have to say, and I have to thank this government today that has taken measures that so, it has made one concession to entrepreneurs, craftsmen and agriculture, I would say it has refreshed the day at one point when we all feared that we would really be on our knees. Of course, it won't cure the entrepreneur, it won't be able to advance, but it's quite easier for him when he doesn't at least have to pay his workers what they don't have, not all entrepreneurs, not all craftsmen were in a good position, especially farmers, but here God has now given us all to see what we are, to raise agriculture, to place it on ours, today, tomorrow, the sea that will work, we don't know anything today what will be 2, 3 or 5 months from now. I'm afraid this doesn't last any longer, and I think that this country of ours, which I think has been quite well run lately, that we've had surpluses, that we're going to be able to spend it, then of course we have to go into charge. As this is all going on, we will see and we must tell our citizens to be patient, to be safe, the most important life that we have shown here and what the world has not shown, was business and money in America, both in France and in Sweden and in Spain and Italy, we have shown one size where we have protected man, profession, the government has started to respect profession, given her open arms, and I think she has done a good job because the man is above all, whether he is 20 or 80-90. After death, everything disappears. Therefore, we have protected our citizens as much as we can and on this side I must be grateful and congratulate both our government and all the efforts that are being made, until it takes time, I don't know, nobody knows it in this world, and I think we have to change some things and we have to think differently. I hope after all this, when it stops that the whole world will go in another direction than it's ever been before. The other day, in fact, I meet a man yesterday, when the earthquake unfortunately hit Zagreb, so he tells me, I escaped from the building, you can think of the building they all ran away, there were 12 children and 17 dogs. It's just a guide to the whole world and everyone to turn a little bit more to people, to be a little more modest, more humble, and to start working once as the world should be arranged. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180943	Thank you. The next statement of view is on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Labour and Solidarity Party, the distinguished representative Mladen Madjer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180945	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I would refer to the situation in agriculture. I believe that the Ministry of Agriculture seems to have somehow been put to sleep and that it is not doing what it may unfortunately do in these difficult moments for Croatia not to work enough to protect the OPGs. We asked to make payment of the incentives before the spring sowing, here's the spring sowing at the end, the payment of the incentives is gone. He may be in the field, but according to all the information on the field, the payoff didn't start. We've been warning these days the same thing about possible food shortages and the possibility of hunger that might appear unfortunately. I appeal to the Ministry of Agriculture and the Government of the Republic of Croatia to urgently set up a meeting with those who are in charge of stock supplies to buy out all products currently available at the OPGs so that we do not get exactly what is announced, and we know how much we imported last year for a billion 450 million euros in agricultural products. It also provides assistance in the economy, as announced in agriculture as well as in the resolution of agricultural land. So it is urgent to change the Agricultural Land Act and allow the OPGs to become the owners of the country, not to be leased. It also started with the revaluation of the land rental price, unfortunately I care, I'm curious about what I care about, which is why it doesn't go to its own during the revaluation process? Here's the Labour and Solidarity Party has created a programme for agriculture, rural development and those who have done those who are really involved in production, and not like that so far have been doing programs practically from the top of the pyramid, and not from the bottom, meaning the programme that those directly involved in production have been doing. In a few days, we will present it directly to the OPG where we will point out and make proposals for the recovery of Croatian villages. Since I'm coming from Koprivnica-Crysing County yesterday, headquarters reported a new breach of the coronary virus into the nursing home. It's really inadmissible that after Split, we get a breakthrough of the coronary virus into the nursing home. We ask Minister Beros, Minister Bozinovic, to urgently investigate the causes that have allowed the virus to appear and to create a new source of the virus in the ageing home in Koprivnica, and after their findings, the responsibility of those who should have prevented it from the director, from the epidemiological institution, from the Civil Protection Staff. We believe that this was inadmissible to repeat what happened in Split, and there must have been some irregularities because an anonymous letter came from the employees of the House for Elderly People in Koprivnica, where they point to the failures that occurred in homes and false intelligence and the Civil Protection and Decision-making Headquarters. And I believe that it is the task of Minister Beros and Minister Bozinović to investigate who allowed it and what is causing this expansion of the shelter in the home. And unfortunately here are the rounds and videos from one meeting, a meeting of headquarters yesterday's civil protection where the Civil Protection Chief didn't know that microphones were involved where they were practically mocked by this where they were looking for bets on how many infected and newly infected again. I don't think that's right at this time, and I think we should be carrying certain people responsible for what happened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180946	It is now up to the Club of Representatives of the Labour Party and Solidarity and Independent Representatives, respected colleague Ermina Lekaj Prlaskaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180947	The Honorable President of HS, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Croatia. First of all, I would like to express my full support for the work of the National Civil Protection Staff and to thank all healthcare professionals who, at these particularly difficult moments, stand on the front line of defence against the spread of the corona infection. However, dealing with the crisis requires at this point and a step towards normalisation of the entire social life, and in this sense, for a particular, important normalisation, in this respect, normalisation and economic life is particularly important. The measures presented by the Government to launch economic and other activities and activities which will be taken towards the release of the measures previously imposed represent a significant precondition and an important step towards the recovery of the domestic economy. The continued and timely supply of food products to the population, in particular bakery products, represents a significant moment in ensuring all these preconditions. Thus, in today’s address, it would primarily refer to the work and activity of small entrepreneurs, or bakers. This crisis has also hit the whole baker's trade, especially in small family companies that continuously invest their profits in expanding their production capacities and hiring workers outside their own family circle. A dramatic decline in the sale of bakery products has been reported since the crisis broke out. Unfortunately, the entire bakery industry in the Republic of Croatia has been neglected for years, and therefore even more painfully in this activity are the effects of the economic crisis caused by the corona virus. In order to ensure competitiveness in bakery, significant investments are needed, and since entrepreneurs from this branch have been burdened and significant contributions to the state, spare funds for further efficient modernisation have been extremely low. For these reasons, many entrepreneurs, especially small craftsmen, are in a particularly difficult situation today. Regardless of all the accumulated problems they have to face today, they have once again shown their selflessness and nobility and have been strongly solidarity with all their fellow citizens, and in certain counties in cooperation with national protection headquarters and volunteers of the Red Cross continue to start humanitarian actions earlier. In these difficult moments, the role of the media and their impartial and timely reporting of the entire Croatian public is particularly important. In that sense, I find it extremely inappropriate and unprofessional to broadcast on one of the TV contributions related to the operation of the bakery without the consent of its owner using hidden camera footage. Instead of sensationalism and exhibition, we need more today than ever before a professional approach to work. This assessment refers impartially to all professions in the Republic of Croatia. If anyone is using this crisis to gain a non-acquired profit, I call on all competent institutions to sanction such individuals, and not to use the media without reason an entire entrepreneurial community. It would also point out that a number of producers from the bakery industry who suffer damages due to a new regulation of working time by their shops have suggested that working hours for them start from 6 hours to 21 hours. So I ask everyone in charge to take into account all the arguments put forward so far that by adopting the proposed regulation of specialised trade in bakery products, all of the activities whose holders are responsible for the preservation of numerous jobs, but also for the necessary supply of the entire population with the necessary food products.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180948	We are going to the 6th debate, dear colleague Ivica Misic on behalf of the Party of Labour and Solidarity and Independent Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180949	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected Croatian citizens, I would like to direct you, that May, the month of the mourning of the Croatian people, the month in which the most Croatians in Croatian history were killed, more than what killed the coronary virus today in the whole world, the month in which we remember 12 monks in Borovo, young people who were killed, for whom no one was responsible, remember 51 killed men in western Slavonia where our president of the Croatian state did not want to light a candle and set a crown. I wonder why that is? Because for someone this is a random state, because for someone this state doesn't need and they don't want it. What did they want with that? They wanted to reduce the value of the Homeland War, they wanted to reduce and declare Croatia in some way still a Ustasha state. Let's remember the former president who said in Israel that the Ustasha serpent in Croatian is still standing on Croatian breasts. Let's remember those who said that there weren't enough people killed in Croatia, let's remember those 200,000 people killed and 200,000 children and innocent people in Bleiburg. Let us remember all these insults that we are aggressors to BiH. Reading Mr. Ostojic who said Tito gave him a fine youth, I ask here, gentlemen, if anyone has given a nice youth to a team of 12 directors, did anyone in Vukovar give those children 70 murdered and young people who died without need in their own country. Has anyone here given birth to a fine youth? Was a beautiful youth after the war driven out and expelled Croats and killed since '45-'48, was that a beautiful youth? It's not gentlemen. Did that Frenchman just happen to come from France to die in Vukovar and lose his beautiful youth? I ask you, who wants to declare this Croatia Ustasha, who drew in Split, the hooky cross? Why did they underestimate the president who hugged the rain of our teammen who fought for Croatia in sports, who won 2 seats and spit everywhere in Croatian media? Did she love Croatia? She showed patriotism, showed love for sport, for the state and for her people compared to those who say it today. Who's teaching us history, gentlemen? Some company of Jakovina, Markovina, Klasic, Puhovski, nowhere can you see a historian telling the truth about the Croatian state and Croatian defenders such as Ante Nazor, Jurčević etc. Where are these big right-handed men who hide themselves as needed and want to show that they are right-handed, and then they did the job for Milanovic. I'm asking you gentlemen now, where are we going? The Croatian state certainly doesn't want to be the Ustasha state or not, but it certainly won't be the communist state or what you wanted, you don't want it today either. Let's remember Tudjman's speech in Vukovar, so I'll start it, try to quote it. This is how he said, you are bothered by the white field, you are bothered by the home ready, you are bothered by the memorial plate of HOS, you are bothered by the Storm, you are bothered by the Catholic Church on television, and then he said nicely, it is easy to solve, out of Croatia. And you blackmailed him and tried to force everything that was Croatian to get out of this Croatian state. Now, gentlemen, it will never go, and you will never be able to get away from this '91. The years of war which you literally do not admit and who you want to declare in any case the HoS Ustashas, which young people did not, these young people fought for the Croatian state and under the Croatian flag and the HoS. You will never, ever succeed again what you gentlemen want, and so will you when you have had a good youth. and destroyed others. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180950	The seventh debate, a respected colleague, Mladen Madjer, on behalf of the Party of Labour and Solidarity and Independent Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180951	Parliamentary representatives, the Labour and Solidarity Party has asked the government and the ministry to pay off incentives and it is good that, that incentives have been paid off but the situation in agriculture is still not great. But clearly, this government isn't the only one responsible for this situation in agriculture. They are also guilty of past governments that, by their irresponsible behavior, brought agricultural production to such a low branch. I hope that this government in this difficult situation for, the economic situation for Croatia, Europe and for the whole world has seen the state of production in agriculture in Croatia as the crown of the virus appears. The Labour and Solidarity Party is constantly warning the Government and the Ministry of Agriculture that more attention must be paid to our family farms, or to our producers. And note, we must protect our products, we must protect our family farms. Clearly, we can primarily guarantee them the safe sale of their products, and that means that all the goods produced on the family farms must be bought out. In the first place, we must protect the meaning of our products from mandarin, watermelon, apples, salad, beans, meat, must be bought first and placed on our market. We are aware that unfortunately we don't produce so much that we can supply our markets, but we can't happen to import goods, and our family farms can't sell that goods we imported at the same time. Once it is necessary to clearly end the import lobby and all those who are rich and full of pockets at the expense of our OPG. Let's finally make sure our goods, the goods produced on our OPGs were the big ones and the little ones ended up in our schools, kindergartens, hospitals, police, military, nursing homes. Let's finally say no to all the manipulators who are working on the damage to our O.P.G.s. I assure you, I can assure you that we can solve all this if there is a good will and if we really want to help our OPGs, or if the goal is to destroy this little production that remains in Croatia. We are clearly aware that, as a member of the EU, we should respect the Public Procurement Act, but at the same time I ask whether our goods, apples, Mandarins, watermelons or something else will be in certain European countries before they sell their goods. Very interesting, and they also respect the Public Procurement Act. There are still opportunities to help the OPGs and help them deliver as easily as possible production, allowing them to compete with products in other EU countries, for example. the resolution of agricultural land. Our OPGs must become owners of agricultural land. Then set up ransom distribution centres as well as a different payment of incentives. This construction of the ransom centers itself will be more explained in the programme that Stanka has made 365, but I don't have much time yet, so I'd like to say a little more about agricultural pensions. I was already saying there are about 65,000 agricultural pensions somewhere, but it's a shame that nearly 20,000 agricultural pensions are under that social aid, below 800 kuna. We have a bill of law, an emergency procedure, which means where an elderly person can get 800 kuna help, and yet I'm saying that nearly 20,000 agricultural pensions are under 800 kuna. Is it normal for those who have worked on their property for 365 days to spend meanings in their fields, in their stables and I say 365 days working and having a shameful pension that is less than social, social benefits and which will probably and will be voted compensation to help older people of 800 kuna. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180952	Mr. Ivan Misic will present the position of the Club of Representatives of the Labour and Solidarity Party and Independent Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180953	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, this month is a month of sadness for all Croatians, we should have attended Bleiburg at Mass to remind ourselves of our murdered and murdered Croats who wanted to get out of that Croatia. Today, by observing our bishopial conference, it brought mass in Zagreb and Sarajevo to the cathedral, and we see that Cardinal Puljic is attacking Bosnia and Bosnian anti-fascists in the media, as well as in protesting in Bosnia that this does not happen. I wonder today, what's going on, what's that? Our former president, shameful Mesic, made a statement to Bosnian television that nothing happened in Bleiburg. I'm asking you today whether criminals are people who haven't had the chance to defend themselves in any court or criminals who killed 200,000 people without a court of law and no evidence whatsoever. If we know Tito is named the greatest, among the world's top ten criminals, I wonder what his army is? Think about whether she did it or not, if she's a criminal, I'm giving it a thought. Some journalists from the United States came to Britain, actually the grandchildren of our Croats, so the British, British officers questioned what happened. These people on TV are crying and regretting what they handed to Tito that army and the JNA. Of course, no one has been convicted of this, and today they deny these crimes. Let's remember Sima Dubaic, who himself confessed, confessed as he said, that he can't die not to tell the truth. Sam wrote in his book and publicly said he killed 30,000 Croats. Remember the walled Croats, remember all these caves that are 850 in Croatia, in Slovenia 600, Serbia 180 and Bosnia 90. Are those crimes? According to this anti-fascism, it's not a crime because it was supposed to kill everyone without a court order. Let's remember Fr. Philip Lukenda and the sister Cecilia who was killed in the village of Banja Luka and burned. Could they be crimes in the future? Let's remember Brishev, the villages where they killed almost the whole village. Where are we going? Will they declare us criminals again? Will Vukovar and Srebrenica be a crime today, tomorrow, if they rule because we have democratically chosen the Croatian state? On the questionnaire, we, like, broke up Yugoslavia even though Milosevic tried to do it by force. Is there going to be a history review? Are we simply going to mature once as people in the Croatian state and say we are going to investigate all the crimes committed in this part of the world? That's what anti-fascists don't want. Killing 200 thousand people without a court, without evidence, is a criminal to them. It is a shame that Mesic spoke so on a Bosnian television, and unfortunately the Croatian people have been seduced, we choose those who did not want Croatia and never want it. No, I hope there's a history review and one day there's going to be a time and who's actually a criminal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180954	The next club of representatives will be that of the Labour and Solidarity and Independent Representatives Party, and will be spoken by the esteemed representative, Rezimir Varda.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180955	Here I must also address the citizens of the City of Zagreb, Krapina-Zagorje County and Zagreb County regarding the consequences of the earthquake. Unfortunately, here we expected that the law on reconstruction would come back in this session of Parliament, but what we have succeeded in actually is the City of Zagreb's insistence, mayors and professional services to adjust the law in a way that is at the last stage of the city of Zagreb's observations, which the law let's now say something and similar and what goes into regular procedure to give citizens the opportunity to give their comments and their opinions in the public debate. But precisely because more than 20,000 buildings have been damaged in the City of Zagreb alone, most of which are residential and which is unusable about 1112 buildings, temporarily unusable over 4000 and useful with certain derogations of 6500 of these figures show and confirm how much it is necessary to pass this law as soon as possible in order to enable all citizens whose housing facilities have suffered during the earthquake to return to normal everyday life in as soon as possible. The historical-urban unit that has suffered the most represents the identity of this city and this state and needs to take immediate measures to recover the damage, and then join a complete reconstruction that would include constructive building strengthening, as well as other arrangements regarding energy efficiency, urbanism, mobility and others. They are citizens, we have the opportunity to see this today and yesterday in front of the Assembly building are due to the upcoming elections, and announcements of the disbanding of the Parliament and deadlines for the new government remain in the airlock and we think that because of our responsibility to the citizens, it is a minimum responsibility to guarantee them the adoption of laws as soon as possible so as to know when and under what conditions they can count on to help rebuild their homes. We have proposed and put into the procedure a proposal for a conclusion on this House, so I will be free to read you those three points. The conclusion requires the Government of the Republic of Croatia to direct the Law on the restoration of the city by a damaged earthquake in the City of Zagreb, Krapina-Zagorje County and Zagreb County at the first working session of HS, which will be in line with the profession, requirements of the citizens and the City of Zagreb. Furthermore, given the necessary financial resources for the reconstruction of buildings, apartments, houses damaged in the earthquake, we propose that the funds be secured from the state budget, the budget of the City of Zagreb, the budget of Krapina-Zagorska and Zagreb County, eu funds and other sources of funding available. But we also propose that the Government of the Republic of Croatia initiate the procedure for amending the Budget Law and the Law on the financing of units of local and regional (regional) self-government in terms of the release of debt limits on the financial market from which the recovery of the area covered by the earthquake and the fairer distribution of funds from income tax would be financed. Personally, I think that in a public debate, and that is what citizens are asking, unlike that plan of the Ministry of Civil Engineering, which was to make the bill into an emergency procedure and counselling for three to five days, that these regular procedures these months will allow citizens to make their remarks and their proposals to come to a better law on the restoration not only of the City of Zagreb, but also of the Krapina-Zagorje County and Zagreb County after the aftermath of the earthquake. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180956	- Mrs. Crescent. Maria Puh, who will be the position of the Club of Representatives of the Party of Labour and Solidarity of Independent Representatives, pay attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180957	Dear colleagues and colleagues, dear Vice President HS, here, unfortunately last Saturday in Zagorje, there was an unremembered tragedy in which the lives of six people were lost. First, she would like to express her deepest condolences to the families and acquaintances of the victims. There was also a danger of much greater tragedy, but thanks to the professional and rapid reaction of our firefighters, there was no expansion of the fire to the neighbouring facility in which other residents were stationed at home. The problems of nursing homes and relations with the old and powerless today have been mentioned on several occasions, and I believe that this is one of the things that needs to be dealt with urgently because unfortunately we are the state that aged and day by day there is a need for more and more places in nursing homes. Unfortunately, while housing in public homes is limited due to insufficient coverage, it has been said for a long time about the private opening of nursing homes, which are unfortunately referred to in the jargon as a great business. And of course, everything would be fine if regulations and conditions had to be respected so that people in those homes could be placed and live happily and satisfactorily. Unfortunately, however, a large majority is a priority on how to make as much money as possible with as little investment as possible, and this often goes to the detriment of their customers. But that I actually go back to what I want to talk about, which is firemen. Our firemen have done a great job, as always, and I congratulate them on that. There are 81 DVDs in the area of Krapina-Zagorje County with 2 JVP, and the tradition of fire is more than 155. In Krapina-Zagorje County, we have more than 12 operational firefighters, which places us at the very top of the Republic of Croatia and I think we can be proud. Also, Krapina-Zagorje County is at the top of the population density, which means that if there is a fire or any disaster, the chances of damage being not only material, but also in human lives are greater. Talking to firefighters, I often got worried about the outcome of any interventions due to the state of the equipment they have. Both counties and units of local self-government participate in the financing of firefighting and most often with resources significantly higher than those prescribed by law because they themselves are aware that if there is any kind of accident, DVDs are the first and closest to help, but unfortunately these reinforced funds are often not enough for concrete investment in equipment. The fleet they have on average is older than 25 years old, and although it is regularly maintained, they are not sure that every time their emergency exit to the intervention is needed will be useful or their trucks will work or not. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. by October, so in 9 months in our county, firefighters had 652 interventions, which means actually that in Krapina-Zagorje County, on average more than twice an intervention. Since 1 January this year, a new Fire Department has entered into force, which formed the State Fire Department. I believe that after a few months, we will have feedback on the application of the law itself and its efficiency, and my appeal is that during future acquisition and distribution of equipment and equipment of fire companies, the condition and age of equipment held by Zagorje firefighters and the density of population are not measured by one life lost. She wouldn't want us to get back into a situation where after some future tragedy, we ask ourselves what could have been done and who could have done it. We need to react on time and prevent any possibility of ever getting into a situation so that we have to wonder how something happened and why it happened. Zagorje firefighters deserve better equipment and I don't want to find ourselves again in a situation where I hear from the president of the fire department that he's afraid of intervention because he's not sure how it's going to go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180958	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180959	We are also going to the last debate today, dear colleague Ivica Misic on behalf of the Party of Labour and Solidarity and Independent Representatives Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180960	Thank you, President of the Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I wonder where we're going, what direction is this country? Who is trying to determine our future by saying about a five-pointer in Rijeka who is some artist, a Rijeka artist, Nemanja Cvianovic, is trying to symbolize again and return the five-pointer as a symbol of Croatia and Croatia, knowing that Rijeka is now chairing the European Capital of Culture, I personally wonder why it always happens by what happens in this Croatian state? Why didn't we judge that same five-pointer? Whether this same artist Cvianovic could have put the symbol of Vukovar, he could have put the Vodotoranj Vukovar in Rijeka, to see how the five-pointer entered Vukovar, how it destroyed the Croatian state, how we did not condemn it and why we did not condemn it, I ask myself a question. Unfortunately, our Minister Obuljen too, she said, is an artistic expression. Gentlemen, we have to stop once, we have to say, quite five-pointer, we have to condemn her, enough of the things that happen in this Croatian state. It would be appropriate to mark Vukovar as a symbol of the struggle for the Croatian state, probably those tanks that entered Vukovar Chetnically came out of the shadows of some... Of course, if it were the former JNA countries, Yugoslavia, which with a five-point star killed so many people in Vukovar, killed so many people in this last time in Croatia, that someone today would enjoy and return to 45. It's not just the issue of that No Nemanje Cvianovic, who, of course, does not want to put it, who wants to idealize the five-pointer, who wants to raise the five-point star from the left-hand side of SDP. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Maybe on May 25th, maybe they'll put that same one back on, that same skyscraper built once an Italian Italian something, an army while it was still 41st in, and they put their five-point symbol up there. It's not just him, the question is, here's Beljak, a colleague who said the other day that more people were to be killed, we know that UDBA did what she did, so he needed more, unfortunately. We're sitting in the Parliament, a colleague said they haven't finished the job since 45th, that we should finish, someone said we're a random state, so now the narration here is the president, can't be on Mark's square, they might be bothered by this Church of St. Mark and we'll do it, lower the value of the president of the state, while we watch the English hold their queen, their tradition. We want to bring down our tradition, the one we had, which we knew, knowing that Radic had been killed in Belgrade. That to this president... The HSS doesn't mean anything. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I'm asking you here and I'm asking myself, where are we going, what are we doing? Whether this ideology of communism should have been condemned in the Croatian state and not. What have we been wandering about for the last 30 years? Why do we not make it clear that we have monuments with Chetnik features in Croatia? Why don't these monuments collapse? We here in this country and this House don't want to talk about it. I want you to talk about this Homeland War which now and these our defenders who didn't get what they were supposed to get. Not even a pension, but some of the fake ones that need to be investigated and, of course, kicked out. Why isn't that done in this country? For what? I don't know. I know, not that I don't know, I know. Why is this idealism of communism protected? How many pits and all around. We all know. The other day I was in Savina, so I was in a barn, saying it here. 558 people were killed in a barn where no one remembered... in the whole village, where only such a.../incomprehensible... there are such 10 of them. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Where 11,000 people were killed in this communism, about that five-pointer. Today we were killed under a five-pointer, not to mention Bleiburg and caves everywhere in Croatia that no one will condemn and that everyone puts under the carpet. Gentlemen, we need to be clear, we need to know what we're going to and where we're going and we need to condemn that communist crime they committed in II. Holy shit. A war today that wants to bring him back to the scene. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180961	The following is the Club of Representatives...... /Sabolek:... crime.... [[You don't understand.]] That Party of Labour and Solidarity of Independent Representatives on behalf of whom the respected representative Maria Puh will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180962	Thank you, Vice President. Here I would use these five minutes to introduce our citizens to tomorrow's Red Dress Day, which is held in various places of the Republic of Croatia, and that day is intended to raise awareness of the stroke and the dangers that come from the stroke. Unfortunately, stroke is a global epidemic that endangers lives, which threatens human health and, unfortunately, endangers the quality of life among the sick. The leading cause of death in the world is a stroke while in the Republic of Croatia since the stroke mortality is second in line. Why are the red dresses and why are the red dresses expressed tomorrow? Because of the stroke, women are particularly threatened. Even one in five women gets a stroke. Here we are in the 6 women's assembly, unfortunately we look at each other, the big statistical variants are God forbid but one of us suffers this disgusting disease. Also, since the stroke, twice as many women die from breast cancer. Also a stroke is the first cause of women's disability. Why is it very important to talk about the stroke and consequences it brings? According to the European report, one in five people does not recognize any symptoms of stroke in another person. Only half of the people would notice that something was going on with the person who had a stroke would call an ambulance. This has shown European research. Unfortunately, the symptoms appear very quickly and sometimes they disappear very quickly and they can be different depending on which part of the brain they're guessing. As the most common way to recognize whether a person has a stroke and is having a stroke is to follow his face, hands and speech, so these are three basic ways, and I call on all of you to respond tomorrow and the next day to the actions that are being held on Red Dress Day, to study the Internet a little bit and look for the symptoms of a stroke because you never know when you might be in a situation where someone can save their lives if you know it, so I think that's the most important step in fighting a stroke of education. Why education? Because we can learn primarily how to prevent the causes of the stroke itself, how to change our lifestyle, and thus reduce the risk of one day having a stroke and on the other hand getting to know the symptoms that cause a stroke, that we can help ourselves or someone else if they experience a stroke. So I invite you all together to respond as much as possible to the action, to get acquainted with the symptoms of stroke, and especially with my Zagorce, I call on Wednesday to the stands to be held in Krapina at the beginning of 6:00 p.m. on the subject “Man is a medicine – prevention of stroke”. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180963	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180964	And the latest statement of views on behalf of the club of representatives on behalf of the Party of Labour and Solidarity Club and independent representatives of counterpart Ivica Misic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180965	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I'm going to say something about BiH and the Serbian Republic today. I have to, do we get any calls that our Croats in the Serbian Republic are very, very threatened. What is happening in the Serbian Republic as our Croats in the Serbian Republic who are exiled, not exiled or expelled means Croats who should not even return to Republika Srpska? It is unfortunate that it has been 27 years since the beginning of the war to this day that these people have no right to survive and to their future. That is what Bishop Komarica tells you on TV that in the Serbian Republic the country is being taken away from the Croats, that the Church is being taken away from the country, that the Constitution of BiH is not being respected, that the state is not functioning, so absolutely not, how the Croats stay in that state. We here in Croatia and in this House are talking about minority rights, of course, that everyone and everyone in this country and this minority country have rights and should achieve them. We are talking about the rights of the sovereign people in BiH, and what is sovereignty, what is happening with sovereignty that you cannot build houses on your country in your village and cannot be the owners of that property. Now Republika Srpska's policy makes the law to take away property from Croats who are not present in those parts. Since the Croatians were exiled in both America and England and Australia and Germany do not even know what is going on in Republika Srpska, what is going to be done of all this, and we know well that the Bosnian Posavina was a majority Croatian people, we know well that in Banja Luka it was fed by 30% of Croats, we know well that in Prijedor and around that in the Sanja Most, they lived next to the Croatians. Why won't we have them today? Is this perhaps the end of our people in Bosnia? We are wondering what Europe is doing, what the international community is doing, what the Serbian Republic is doing, what are all the politicians of Croatia in BiH doing, what are some of our politicians sitting in the Serbian Republic Assembly who are not seeking, who are not asking, who are not begging, what have policies done so far, what has the policy of exiled 200,000 Croats done to bring them back to their homes, to build them houses? If Bosnia wants to go to Europe, and we know how to behave if we are to be a European part of the world, the Croats have fought for the whole of BiH, the Croats have recognised BiH, and we have no rights in the Serbian Republic, but we also see in the Federation that we are losing certain places that we should have, we are chosen by others. I ask the question, how much of it we need and I wonder who is at risk in this Europe today, are threatened by Croats in Bosnia, threatened, exiled, exiled. Today, we are more concerned with these Syrian refugees, which, of course, requires people to help, I am not against it, no one is involved in journalists or politicians about Croats from Bosnia. I now ask from here and I will beg the prime minister, here and now Milanovic is the president of the state so let him go to the Serbian Republic, let them talk, the prime minister was trying at least in the part where the highway was supposed to go, I thank him again, but this is not all over, this is just the beginning of something where the Serbian Republic wants to take away all the country to the Croatian people who are not there, and they are expelled and exiled. This is the issue that needs to be discussed in this country, we are the domestic people in BiH, so I propose and ask the government and foreign affairs to take care of a little because Komarica and Archbishop Puljic cannot resolve the issue of Croats over 200, 250,000 of us are not in Bosnia, and Bosnia is as we know, we are the oldest people in BiH before both Muslims and Serbs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180966	The next club of representatives will be that of the Labour Party and Solidarity and Independent Representatives on behalf of whom the respected representative Maria Puh will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180967	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Here we are today marking the Day of Pink T-shirts, that is, the day of battle against peer violence. The day began in 2007 in Canada when the entire class supported the boy who was abused because he came in a pink shirt to support his mother, and in 2017, he declared this High House last Wednesday on the Day of Fight against Peer Violence. We're talking about this day here at this pay phone because in the last few days we've really been flooded with all kinds of news, and they've all been heavily based on the coronary virus that's threatening us, but definitely today can't stay on the sidelines and can't be promoted in the media or anywhere else. It's important to talk about it and make people aware of the problem. In fact, the Royal College in London has been doing research that has shown very worrying data, which is that those who were victims of peer violence felt the consequences and 40 years after their abuse felt various physical, mental, and social consequences. So people who are abused at school and from their peers are prone to depression are prone to anxiety, and what is the worst of them is a terrible fall of self - confidence, and they often think of suicide very often. It's important to talk about it, it's important to focus on it in the same way that we've now dedicated ourselves to the coronary virus. So we have a station to fight the coronary virus, and I think we need an emergency headquarters to fight peer violence because our children, if they'll be healthier, if they feel better, we'll have a better future. What is still deeply concerned is electronic violence, which unfortunately is in growing growth and children all already have cell phones, laptops, tablets, unfortunately 5% of children have said that they are constantly exposed to abuse or abuse by their peers, while a slightly larger number of them have said that they have received some comment or mean message, but they have not looked back on it so much, but it has not been systematic. The government recently adopted an Action Plan to prevent school violence, but I think we should work a lot harder on it. That action plan prescribed certain procedures and all that, but I think we should talk to the kids more, talk to them in a way that they understand that the bad words that they say to each other leave lasting consequences on their friends or their acquaintances. Also one of the information that I came across and that should be taken into account, especially regarding this action plan, for the prevention of violence brought to the government, is that when a study among teachers in schools was conducted by the Poliklinic for the Protection of Children in Zagreb, 17.5% of teachers would most likely not react if they saw a bad message intended for another student because children write everything. I think it would be important to realize that it doesn't matter what children write, children should be warned that what is written can leave significant consequences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180968	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180969	Mr Ivica Misic will speak ahead of the Labour and Solidarity Party.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180970	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Yesterday we were on the Committee on Immigrants and were guests, as Miro Bulj spoke earlier, from neighbouring countries where our Croats live. So it was from Italy, Slovenia, Austria, Hungary, the Czech Republic, Romania, Bulgaria, Macedonia and Montenegro. It was nice to hear Croats living outside Croatia yesterday. I have to admit, I was glad to meet them the first time in five years, that people came to tell us what's going on and what's happening to them in the countries where they live. By listening to national minorities in Croatia and observing their rights, I got the impression that about and so I think that the best rights have minorities in Croatia, of all the neighbouring countries where we live. And especially Mr Furio, I'm going to say a little bit about the Italians, so let's see how many of our Croats have rights there. Not as much as you have here. The second thing, of course, is that they are not threatened as they are threatened in Serbia, Montenegro, Macedonia, BiH. We can't say, here, the Slovenians didn't recognize us as a minority even though there were 50 grand. We didn't admit 10 of them, I don't know why, but that's the truth. Montenegro our Croats are the most undesirable people in that country, so all the nations are more desirable in questioning, we were the last people to want Montenegrins to live in Montenegro. In Serbia, let's not talk. My colleague Bulj just said that not that they're threatened, not that they're harassed, but that there's a danger of living there. The other thing, they don't have any rights there, the elections come naturally, if you go through a party and you happen to come to their parliament, they don't stand a chance. We signed everything, we did everything, what we signed, and by the Constitution, I wonder who signed that he didn't say hard that we had to be participants in their parliament. It's embarrassing, but it's true. In Hungary, at least I can be in parliament, but I can't vote, I can't determine. In Austria, they also have problems, but they are a rich country, so it is less noticeable. In Macedonia, Macedonia here, the Macedonian minority gets some, how much, if I understand correctly, don't hold my word, 150 thousand euros a year, our people in Macedonia don't get 0 kuna, but nothing at all. So I'm asking you, who's threatened in this area, who's threatened in this country? In BiH, where I come from, what happens to Croatians who are betrayed, who have nothing of their own? They can't even go back to their homes, and God forbid someone from Croatia says that they need help and that Dodik presses to build those houses, to get people back, that's 200, 250 thousand people. The question is, what kind of policy are we running? What are we doing? Here, I've been on the board for five years, I wanted to visit everyone, see how they live, go to Serbia and Hungary, including Macedonia, we've been through 5 years. We should all hang out. We're not, of course, that we're not. We're only important to sit down, to talk, to not move anything. It's not a job. I don't think it's a job. The job is when we sit down, we settle, we go, we do the job, we do the job we can, and we can do a lot more than we do. I'd say the most important comfort is in the assembly, that I'm here, and everything else around me stands the way it is, the way it is. That's why we're developing slowly, that's why we're working slow, that's why we're slow, that's why our kids are gone from my Slavonia. We don't have 30. The railway connecting Vinkovci-Zagreb. No government is boredom, and here I hope this government is doing something else in that part, so why is that destroyed? Every two minutes the train passed through Vinkovce to the east, 3,000 people from Vinkovci worked on the railroad, today you pass 80, and it passed from 400 to 450 trains. I'm asking here a question to the public and everyone, what we do to be better, to be more concrete and Let's work, not talk [[Intruder: Thank you]] Like always? [[/Intruder: Thank you very much, thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180971	So if we want to do no one prevents us from doing this, I am four times, I have been to Italy four times, to the Croats, to Molise, and it is very far away Mr. Misic and I'm surprised that you, from, and I'm surprised that you from, from, from that committee, do not visit Croats outside the country, and that would be your obligation. I say I've been to them four times, and I'm considered at home by them, as at home I consider myself by them, and our constitutional obligation and your constitutional obligation is to visit them. Thank you very much. We move forward, tomorrow, not tomorrow, sorry, on Wednesday 11 March we continue at 9.30 with a report on the business of the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families for 2017. We still have 3 points left after this, which you can find naturally on the site. Session interrupted at 11.01 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180972	We are now going to the last debate, dear colleague Rechimer Varda on behalf of the Labour Party's Representatives' Club and Solidarity and Independent Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180973	Thank you very much. Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. I would also like to address fellow citizens and fellow citizens of the city of Zagreb on behalf of the club Party of Labour and Solidarity, independent representatives. First of all, I join the expressions of condolences to the families of Tsarevic whose 15-year-old daughter, Anamari, was badly injured in the earthquake, died. But immediately after the earthquake as you witnessed for an hour on the ground were all the city's municipal services, cleanliness, Zagreb roads, Zrinjevac, Water supply, Divinja, Plinara, Communal reding, Police and the Croatian Army, they have done thousands of actions so far. Just yesterday more than 500 emergency interventions were carried out. City services in cooperation with the army of the Republic of Croatia, fire departments from Zagreb that same day cleaned all the streets of the city, where I thank them all once again. Hundreds of construction profession volunteers went out in the field and worked from morning to late in the night for the first reconnaissance and first assessment of the state of the building's static to see if people can return to the facilities or have to replace accommodation. The citizens were provided with accommodations that were left without a safe roof over their heads in the student flower settlement, and 250 of them were given home last night as well as a warm meal provided by Zagreb's good home and Zagreb's Red Cross while Holding provided two free lines for people who needed accommodation or who were in any way affected by the earthquake. How was it possible to organize everything like this in such a short time? You know, thanks to the preparations and organization that the city of Zagreb, the City Emergency Office, led by Mr. Kalinic, made not only that day but far before, preparing and civil protection, informing built-up posters and lenses that we all received at home what to do in case of an earthquake. Some politicians in the City Assembly and the media and the public mocked, mocking those preparations, believing it was Kalinic playing, as a small child in kindergarten. Here's the score. At least if you don't apologize to him, and then at least praise everything I've listed so far. In the end, I would like to mention one problem that remains for us, which is the 5% amount that is recognised for the damage finally confirmed on the property of the individual damage as well as the time limit for reporting damage. I must say that the mayor of the city of Zagreb, who declared the elemental damage, addressed the Ministry of Finance with a request to extend the deadline that the Ministry of Finance and approved, so the new deadline for reporting damage was set in 30 days instead of 8 days, but we suggest that, given the level of payment for the determined damage, which is at present 5% of the amount of the damage finally confirmed, we propose to the Government to make a decision that this level of damage may be more than 5% of the final confirmed damage, and we will surely as a club in any case support such a decision. For the end of dear fellow citizens and fellow citizens, thank you for holding not only on this earthquake but all these days while we are fighting an epidemic of coronaryvirus, trying to come out of everything with as little damage as possible and with as few lives lost. Please, both personally and in the name of the club, continue to follow the notifications of competent staff and institutions that are doing everything possible to make us the winners of this battle. Do not subject yourself to false prophets, false medics, and populists, for with the help of hardworking people who, every day, expose themselves to numerous threats, care for our health and maintain all necessary functions. Together, thank all of them, doctors, nurses, emergency services, members of HV, police and civil protection, volunteers and our Zagreb municipal services. Be dear fellow citizens and fellow citizens responsible and protect yourself and your neighbors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180974	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180975	The club of representatives of the Labour Party and solidarity and independent representatives will also state their position on their behalf will be represented by representative Mladen Madjer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180976	Thank you. Dear Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. At first I thank all those who these days give each of their atoms of strength to help with these terrible disasters. We are going through a difficult time for Croatia, but time goes on and new challenges await us and we must not forget or destroy what we have at this time. I would speak primarily of the OPGs today even though my predecessors have already warned about the OPG problem. Unfortunately, this is a time when we need to do something more for our producers to stop the unprecedented imports that make us unfortunately addictive, and our OPG leads to economic downturn. We, as a particular Labour and Solidarity Party, have two concrete proposals regarding the OPGs. The first proposal is that, as soon as possible, people of all food chains are called together, both foreign and foreign, to present themselves at that meeting and ask them if they are willing to do something for the country they work in and live in for the people they earn and even profit out of it? Are they ready to take over agricultural and war products from domestic producers at a certain time? Ask them openly for the price, but make that price and document if there's a price they're currently selling goods. If there is a big price difference, some of our producers pay the one paid by imported goods abroad, and then the state should bear the cost of the difference and pay our producers who clearly have to come out with a single correct price. Unless they are willing to do so, a ban on imports of certain products should be considered, and also if the situation requires even introducing a state of emergency. We can't let us destroy our family farms. The second measure we are proposing, which was heard by the opening of markets, is in line with the instructions of the Civil Protection Staff. For example, it means that it can be organised, if you can organize purchases in large trade chains, I am convinced that it can also be organised in markets. Here's an example of how to fill each other's booth in each other's order to form an entrance with customer entry control, just as they are controlled in large chains where unfortunately the food that is imported is sold. Also, it is an opportunity that, under such circumstances, market entry is primarily made by our producers, not resellers and smugglers. There is also a need to limit the price in the markets. It's also better than destroying plastics, plowing vegetables, fruit and flowers. I also appeal to the Ministry of Agriculture and the Government of the Republic of Croatia to be paid within the shortest time limit of incentives to ensure the spring sowing, not to wait for a deadline of 30.6. when and the deadline for the last payment. These measures, by proposal, mean to the government we protect our producers because agriculture must not be stopped. And so I tell all those who fight to survive, to hold on, and to all of us to think carefully, if there is no agriculture, we would either be hungry or hungry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180977	Good morning dear colleagues and colleagues, we continue to work, on the first day of the week of the plenary session, free speech, the first is the honored colleague Mladen Madjer on behalf of the Party of Labour and Solidarity and Independent Representatives Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180978	I would like to thank the esteemed president of HS, dear colleagues and colleagues. It is clear that all those who are struggling with this virus, recognition to the Civil Protection Staff, but at this point may also need to make some suggestions on improving the functioning of certain things in the Republic of Croatia. Among other things, I'd like to say first of all about the OPGs, which I spoke at the last presentation, and this is about the markets. I welcome the clear and functioning of the line market although we are all aware that in the long term it is a big problem for all those who participate in it, meaning from their time, from those costs that they have with delivery, and clearly that they cannot charge the consumer a higher price. We warned that the government had to make an emergency meeting, an emergency meeting with all the food chains, that they had to force food chains to buy out all the products of our OPGs, they had to force them to. If the price is concerned, that the price is higher than our producers and less than the chains they sell, the State must participate in the settlement of that price difference. If not, it's a market opening. Here, Minister Bozinovic said yesterday that he was considering some ideas about opening markets. Markets must be opened immediately, they must be opened immediately, respecting the following measures of the Civil Protection Staff. And that's possible to make sure with the communal directors who will stand at the entrance and exit of the market, limiting people who will be in the markets. It is possible to do so and we must allow our OPGs to come to the market and sell. We have to let them do it if we're going to destroy this little production that we unfortunately have, to just remind them that last year we imported means a billion and 400 million euro of agricultural products. It will increase if we destroy this little bit of what we have, and unfortunately this is the time, maybe a moment to correct it. I'd also like to talk a little bit about issuing passes. It is primarily about the CAPs, or farmers, who are currently participating in the preparation, clearly will not this week, given that the big week is in preparation for spring seed. I think it's amazing that from one place where there's a distance even in one municipality is one street of the municipality that has to have a pass. We need to be a little more flexible, why these people, they go to their tractor, they're the only ones sitting in their tractor and going to their fields, they're going ora, they're going to prepare for spring seed, and we're burdening them to take out the pass. Well, I don't think that's necessary. Let's leave the people preparing the land, let them go into the seed, is it not clear to me, he won't transport the virus in his tractor, he won't infect in the field of rabbit, pheasant or deer, there's no one around. I think we should consider that. I also appeal to the government to call an emergency meeting with all the cereal buyers. We are followed by the sixth, seventh month of harvest, meaning wheat, oiled tail and barley. We need to consider the needs of the Republic of Croatia, how much the needs of the Republic of Croatia are to store it, to create, to buy out all excess products, to create supply supplies. We can't let the goods be exported. So basically if it's too big to make a way out. To ban the exit of this goods, which is very soon, and I think the government should sit down with all the redeemers as soon as possible. Of course there is, and I have pointed out that the Government must urgently pay off the incentives, should not wait 30.6., pay off the incentive for peasants, the OPGs for the spring seed, and I will do a little more about my proposal when the Agriculture Act comes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180979	The next statement of view is on behalf of the Labour Party Representatives' Club of Solidarity and Independent Representatives, the distinguished representative Ivica Misic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180980	Thank you, Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Since I can't keep track of time, I'd like to wish everyone to the Croats and everyone in the world a happy and blessed Easter. Of course, I want to say and thank our headquarters, our doctors, the police, the military and the firemen, the fans who helped even after this earthquake and this evil that happened in the world, the monster crown that covered the whole world. So we see that we're little in this world, that no one is the size, all the sizes are going down today until we solve the crown problem. Dear gentlemen, I know who is most endangered today, these are craftsmen and entrepreneurs and farmers. It's the farthest, farthest part of the world. Since I'm an entrepreneur myself, I know what happens when you come to a company closed, when you have workers and you can't function normally like a normal person. Why am I saying that? I'm not going to accuse anyone and say that it's easy for everyone in politics and anywhere, in the economy and in anything, but in the economy it's far, far the strongest, the worst. How do you solve the problem? Hardly. We all know that we have left Slavonia, we know that we have destroyed agriculture, we know that we have done nothing from war to this day, that Slavonia remains empty, that farmers can barely breathe. You see, today we don't have any more, we probably won't have the tourism that we should have, where we depended most and where we invested the most. I wonder if we invested in Slavonia, in fact I can't say it didn't invest, but it wasn't about investing and our agriculture got into trouble. We know the problem of Agrokor and everything else. But in the end, I have to say, and I have to thank this government today that has taken measures that so, it has made one concession to entrepreneurs, craftsmen and agriculture, I would say it has refreshed the day at one point when we all feared that we would really be on our knees. Of course, it won't cure the entrepreneur, it won't be able to advance, but it's quite easier for him when he doesn't at least have to pay his workers what they don't have, not all entrepreneurs, not all craftsmen were in a good position, especially farmers, but here God has now given us all to see what we are, to raise agriculture, to place it on ours, today, tomorrow, the sea that will work, we don't know anything today what will be 2, 3 or 5 months from now. I'm afraid this doesn't last any longer, and I think that this country of ours, which I think has been quite well run lately, that we've had surpluses, that we're going to be able to spend it, then of course we have to go into charge. As this is all going on, we will see and we must tell our citizens to be patient, to be safe, the most important life that we have shown here and what the world has not shown, was business and money in America, both in France and in Sweden and in Spain and Italy, we have shown one size where we have protected man, profession, the government has started to respect profession, given her open arms, and I think she has done a good job because the man is above all, whether he is 20 or 80-90. After death, everything disappears. Therefore, we have protected our citizens as much as we can and on this side I must be grateful and congratulate both our government and all the efforts that are being made, until it takes time, I don't know, nobody knows it in this world, and I think we have to change some things and we have to think differently. I hope after all this, when it stops that the whole world will go in another direction than it's ever been before. The other day, in fact, I meet a man yesterday, when the earthquake unfortunately hit Zagreb, so he tells me, I escaped from the building, you can think of the building they all ran away, there were 12 children and 17 dogs. It's just a guide to the whole world and everyone to turn a little bit more to people, to be a little more modest, more humble, and to start working once as the world should be arranged. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180981	Thank you. The next statement of view is on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Labour and Solidarity Party, the distinguished representative Mladen Madjer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180983	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I would refer to the situation in agriculture. I believe that the Ministry of Agriculture seems to have somehow been put to sleep and that it is not doing what it may unfortunately do in these difficult moments for Croatia not to work enough to protect the OPGs. We asked to make payment of the incentives before the spring sowing, here's the spring sowing at the end, the payment of the incentives is gone. He may be in the field, but according to all the information on the field, the payoff didn't start. We've been warning these days the same thing about possible food shortages and the possibility of hunger that might appear unfortunately. I appeal to the Ministry of Agriculture and the Government of the Republic of Croatia to urgently set up a meeting with those who are in charge of stock supplies to buy out all products currently available at the OPGs so that we do not get exactly what is announced, and we know how much we imported last year for a billion 450 million euros in agricultural products. It also provides assistance in the economy, as announced in agriculture as well as in the resolution of agricultural land. So it is urgent to change the Agricultural Land Act and allow the OPGs to become the owners of the country, not to be leased. It also started with the revaluation of the land rental price, unfortunately I care, I'm curious about what I care about, which is why it doesn't go to its own during the revaluation process? Here's the Labour and Solidarity Party has created a programme for agriculture, rural development and those who have done those who are really involved in production, and not like that so far have been doing programs practically from the top of the pyramid, and not from the bottom, meaning the programme that those directly involved in production have been doing. In a few days, we will present it directly to the OPG where we will point out and make proposals for the recovery of Croatian villages. Since I'm coming from Koprivnica-Crysing County yesterday, headquarters reported a new breach of the coronary virus into the nursing home. It's really inadmissible that after Split, we get a breakthrough of the coronary virus into the nursing home. We ask Minister Beros, Minister Bozinovic, to urgently investigate the causes that have allowed the virus to appear and to create a new source of the virus in the ageing home in Koprivnica, and after their findings, the responsibility of those who should have prevented it from the director, from the epidemiological institution, from the Civil Protection Staff. We believe that this was inadmissible to repeat what happened in Split, and there must have been some irregularities because an anonymous letter came from the employees of the House for Elderly People in Koprivnica, where they point to the failures that occurred in homes and false intelligence and the Civil Protection and Decision-making Headquarters. And I believe that it is the task of Minister Beros and Minister Bozinović to investigate who allowed it and what is causing this expansion of the shelter in the home. And unfortunately here are the rounds and videos from one meeting, a meeting of headquarters yesterday's civil protection where the Civil Protection Chief didn't know that microphones were involved where they were practically mocked by this where they were looking for bets on how many infected and newly infected again. I don't think that's right at this time, and I think we should be carrying certain people responsible for what happened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180984	It is now up to the Club of Representatives of the Labour Party and Solidarity and Independent Representatives, respected colleague Ermina Lekaj Prlaskaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180985	The Honorable President of HS, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Croatia. First of all, I would like to express my full support for the work of the National Civil Protection Staff and to thank all healthcare professionals who, at these particularly difficult moments, stand on the front line of defence against the spread of the corona infection. However, dealing with the crisis requires at this point and a step towards normalisation of the entire social life, and in this sense, for a particular, important normalisation, in this respect, normalisation and economic life is particularly important. The measures presented by the Government to launch economic and other activities and activities which will be taken towards the release of the measures previously imposed represent a significant precondition and an important step towards the recovery of the domestic economy. The continued and timely supply of food products to the population, in particular bakery products, represents a significant moment in ensuring all these preconditions. Thus, in today’s address, it would primarily refer to the work and activity of small entrepreneurs, or bakers. This crisis has also hit the whole baker's trade, especially in small family companies that continuously invest their profits in expanding their production capacities and hiring workers outside their own family circle. A dramatic decline in the sale of bakery products has been reported since the crisis broke out. Unfortunately, the entire bakery industry in the Republic of Croatia has been neglected for years, and therefore even more painfully in this activity are the effects of the economic crisis caused by the corona virus. In order to ensure competitiveness in bakery, significant investments are needed, and since entrepreneurs from this branch have been burdened and significant contributions to the state, spare funds for further efficient modernisation have been extremely low. For these reasons, many entrepreneurs, especially small craftsmen, are in a particularly difficult situation today. Regardless of all the accumulated problems they have to face today, they have once again shown their selflessness and nobility and have been strongly solidarity with all their fellow citizens, and in certain counties in cooperation with national protection headquarters and volunteers of the Red Cross continue to start humanitarian actions earlier. In these difficult moments, the role of the media and their impartial and timely reporting of the entire Croatian public is particularly important. In that sense, I find it extremely inappropriate and unprofessional to broadcast on one of the TV contributions related to the operation of the bakery without the consent of its owner using hidden camera footage. Instead of sensationalism and exhibition, we need more today than ever before a professional approach to work. This assessment refers impartially to all professions in the Republic of Croatia. If anyone is using this crisis to gain a non-acquired profit, I call on all competent institutions to sanction such individuals, and not to use the media without reason an entire entrepreneurial community. It would also point out that a number of producers from the bakery industry who suffer damages due to a new regulation of working time by their shops have suggested that working hours for them start from 6 hours to 21 hours. So I ask everyone in charge to take into account all the arguments put forward so far that by adopting the proposed regulation of specialised trade in bakery products, all of the activities whose holders are responsible for the preservation of numerous jobs, but also for the necessary supply of the entire population with the necessary food products.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180986	We are going to the 6th debate, dear colleague Ivica Misic on behalf of the Party of Labour and Solidarity and Independent Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180987	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected Croatian citizens, I would like to direct you, that May, the month of the mourning of the Croatian people, the month in which the most Croatians in Croatian history were killed, more than what killed the coronary virus today in the whole world, the month in which we remember 12 monks in Borovo, young people who were killed, for whom no one was responsible, remember 51 killed men in western Slavonia where our president of the Croatian state did not want to light a candle and set a crown. I wonder why that is? Because for someone this is a random state, because for someone this state doesn't need and they don't want it. What did they want with that? They wanted to reduce the value of the Homeland War, they wanted to reduce and declare Croatia in some way still a Ustasha state. Let's remember the former president who said in Israel that the Ustasha serpent in Croatian is still standing on Croatian breasts. Let's remember those who said that there weren't enough people killed in Croatia, let's remember those 200,000 people killed and 200,000 children and innocent people in Bleiburg. Let us remember all these insults that we are aggressors to BiH. Reading Mr. Ostojic who said Tito gave him a fine youth, I ask here, gentlemen, if anyone has given a nice youth to a team of 12 directors, did anyone in Vukovar give those children 70 murdered and young people who died without need in their own country. Has anyone here given birth to a fine youth? Was a beautiful youth after the war driven out and expelled Croats and killed since '45-'48, was that a beautiful youth? It's not gentlemen. Did that Frenchman just happen to come from France to die in Vukovar and lose his beautiful youth? I ask you, who wants to declare this Croatia Ustasha, who drew in Split, the hooky cross? Why did they underestimate the president who hugged the rain of our teammen who fought for Croatia in sports, who won 2 seats and spit everywhere in Croatian media? Did she love Croatia? She showed patriotism, showed love for sport, for the state and for her people compared to those who say it today. Who's teaching us history, gentlemen? Some company of Jakovina, Markovina, Klasic, Puhovski, nowhere can you see a historian telling the truth about the Croatian state and Croatian defenders such as Ante Nazor, Jurčević etc. Where are these big right-handed men who hide themselves as needed and want to show that they are right-handed, and then they did the job for Milanovic. I'm asking you gentlemen now, where are we going? The Croatian state certainly doesn't want to be the Ustasha state or not, but it certainly won't be the communist state or what you wanted, you don't want it today either. Let's remember Tudjman's speech in Vukovar, so I'll start it, try to quote it. This is how he said, you are bothered by the white field, you are bothered by the home ready, you are bothered by the memorial plate of HOS, you are bothered by the Storm, you are bothered by the Catholic Church on television, and then he said nicely, it is easy to solve, out of Croatia. And you blackmailed him and tried to force everything that was Croatian to get out of this Croatian state. Now, gentlemen, it will never go, and you will never be able to get away from this '91. The years of war which you literally do not admit and who you want to declare in any case the HoS Ustashas, which young people did not, these young people fought for the Croatian state and under the Croatian flag and the HoS. You will never, ever succeed again what you gentlemen want, and so will you when you have had a good youth. and destroyed others. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180988	The seventh debate, a respected colleague, Mladen Madjer, on behalf of the Party of Labour and Solidarity and Independent Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180989	Parliamentary representatives, the Labour and Solidarity Party has asked the government and the ministry to pay off incentives and it is good that, that incentives have been paid off but the situation in agriculture is still not great. But clearly, this government isn't the only one responsible for this situation in agriculture. They are also guilty of past governments that, by their irresponsible behavior, brought agricultural production to such a low branch. I hope that this government in this difficult situation for, the economic situation for Croatia, Europe and for the whole world has seen the state of production in agriculture in Croatia as the crown of the virus appears. The Labour and Solidarity Party is constantly warning the Government and the Ministry of Agriculture that more attention must be paid to our family farms, or to our producers. And note, we must protect our products, we must protect our family farms. Clearly, we can primarily guarantee them the safe sale of their products, and that means that all the goods produced on the family farms must be bought out. In the first place, we must protect the meaning of our products from mandarin, watermelon, apples, salad, beans, meat, must be bought first and placed on our market. We are aware that unfortunately we don't produce so much that we can supply our markets, but we can't happen to import goods, and our family farms can't sell that goods we imported at the same time. Once it is necessary to clearly end the import lobby and all those who are rich and full of pockets at the expense of our OPG. Let's finally make sure our goods, the goods produced on our OPGs were the big ones and the little ones ended up in our schools, kindergartens, hospitals, police, military, nursing homes. Let's finally say no to all the manipulators who are working on the damage to our O.P.G.s. I assure you, I can assure you that we can solve all this if there is a good will and if we really want to help our OPGs, or if the goal is to destroy this little production that remains in Croatia. We are clearly aware that, as a member of the EU, we should respect the Public Procurement Act, but at the same time I ask whether our goods, apples, Mandarins, watermelons or something else will be in certain European countries before they sell their goods. Very interesting, and they also respect the Public Procurement Act. There are still opportunities to help the OPGs and help them deliver as easily as possible production, allowing them to compete with products in other EU countries, for example. the resolution of agricultural land. Our OPGs must become owners of agricultural land. Then set up ransom distribution centres as well as a different payment of incentives. This construction of the ransom centers itself will be more explained in the programme that Stanka has made 365, but I don't have much time yet, so I'd like to say a little more about agricultural pensions. I was already saying there are about 65,000 agricultural pensions somewhere, but it's a shame that nearly 20,000 agricultural pensions are under that social aid, below 800 kuna. We have a bill of law, an emergency procedure, which means where an elderly person can get 800 kuna help, and yet I'm saying that nearly 20,000 agricultural pensions are under 800 kuna. Is it normal for those who have worked on their property for 365 days to spend meanings in their fields, in their stables and I say 365 days working and having a shameful pension that is less than social, social benefits and which will probably and will be voted compensation to help older people of 800 kuna. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180990	Mr. Ivan Misic will present the position of the Club of Representatives of the Labour and Solidarity Party and Independent Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180991	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, this month is a month of sadness for all Croatians, we should have attended Bleiburg at Mass to remind ourselves of our murdered and murdered Croats who wanted to get out of that Croatia. Today, by observing our bishopial conference, it brought mass in Zagreb and Sarajevo to the cathedral, and we see that Cardinal Puljic is attacking Bosnia and Bosnian anti-fascists in the media, as well as in protesting in Bosnia that this does not happen. I wonder today, what's going on, what's that? Our former president, shameful Mesic, made a statement to Bosnian television that nothing happened in Bleiburg. I'm asking you today whether criminals are people who haven't had the chance to defend themselves in any court or criminals who killed 200,000 people without a court of law and no evidence whatsoever. If we know Tito is named the greatest, among the world's top ten criminals, I wonder what his army is? Think about whether she did it or not, if she's a criminal, I'm giving it a thought. Some journalists from the United States came to Britain, actually the grandchildren of our Croats, so the British, British officers questioned what happened. These people on TV are crying and regretting what they handed to Tito that army and the JNA. Of course, no one has been convicted of this, and today they deny these crimes. Let's remember Sima Dubaic, who himself confessed, confessed as he said, that he can't die not to tell the truth. Sam wrote in his book and publicly said he killed 30,000 Croats. Remember the walled Croats, remember all these caves that are 850 in Croatia, in Slovenia 600, Serbia 180 and Bosnia 90. Are those crimes? According to this anti-fascism, it's not a crime because it was supposed to kill everyone without a court order. Let's remember Fr. Philip Lukenda and the sister Cecilia who was killed in the village of Banja Luka and burned. Could they be crimes in the future? Let's remember Brishev, the villages where they killed almost the whole village. Where are we going? Will they declare us criminals again? Will Vukovar and Srebrenica be a crime today, tomorrow, if they rule because we have democratically chosen the Croatian state? On the questionnaire, we, like, broke up Yugoslavia even though Milosevic tried to do it by force. Is there going to be a history review? Are we simply going to mature once as people in the Croatian state and say we are going to investigate all the crimes committed in this part of the world? That's what anti-fascists don't want. Killing 200 thousand people without a court, without evidence, is a criminal to them. It is a shame that Mesic spoke so on a Bosnian television, and unfortunately the Croatian people have been seduced, we choose those who did not want Croatia and never want it. No, I hope there's a history review and one day there's going to be a time and who's actually a criminal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180992	The next club of representatives will be that of the Labour and Solidarity and Independent Representatives Party, and will be spoken by the esteemed representative, Rezimir Varda.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180993	Here I must also address the citizens of the City of Zagreb, Krapina-Zagorje County and Zagreb County regarding the consequences of the earthquake. Unfortunately, here we expected that the law on reconstruction would come back in this session of Parliament, but what we have succeeded in actually is the City of Zagreb's insistence, mayors and professional services to adjust the law in a way that is at the last stage of the city of Zagreb's observations, which the law let's now say something and similar and what goes into regular procedure to give citizens the opportunity to give their comments and their opinions in the public debate. But precisely because more than 20,000 buildings have been damaged in the City of Zagreb alone, most of which are residential and which is unusable about 1112 buildings, temporarily unusable over 4000 and useful with certain derogations of 6500 of these figures show and confirm how much it is necessary to pass this law as soon as possible in order to enable all citizens whose housing facilities have suffered during the earthquake to return to normal everyday life in as soon as possible. The historical-urban unit that has suffered the most represents the identity of this city and this state and needs to take immediate measures to recover the damage, and then join a complete reconstruction that would include constructive building strengthening, as well as other arrangements regarding energy efficiency, urbanism, mobility and others. They are citizens, we have the opportunity to see this today and yesterday in front of the Assembly building are due to the upcoming elections, and announcements of the disbanding of the Parliament and deadlines for the new government remain in the airlock and we think that because of our responsibility to the citizens, it is a minimum responsibility to guarantee them the adoption of laws as soon as possible so as to know when and under what conditions they can count on to help rebuild their homes. We have proposed and put into the procedure a proposal for a conclusion on this House, so I will be free to read you those three points. The conclusion requires the Government of the Republic of Croatia to direct the Law on the restoration of the city by a damaged earthquake in the City of Zagreb, Krapina-Zagorje County and Zagreb County at the first working session of HS, which will be in line with the profession, requirements of the citizens and the City of Zagreb. Furthermore, given the necessary financial resources for the reconstruction of buildings, apartments, houses damaged in the earthquake, we propose that the funds be secured from the state budget, the budget of the City of Zagreb, the budget of Krapina-Zagorska and Zagreb County, eu funds and other sources of funding available. But we also propose that the Government of the Republic of Croatia initiate the procedure for amending the Budget Law and the Law on the financing of units of local and regional (regional) self-government in terms of the release of debt limits on the financial market from which the recovery of the area covered by the earthquake and the fairer distribution of funds from income tax would be financed. Personally, I think that in a public debate, and that is what citizens are asking, unlike that plan of the Ministry of Civil Engineering, which was to make the bill into an emergency procedure and counselling for three to five days, that these regular procedures these months will allow citizens to make their remarks and their proposals to come to a better law on the restoration not only of the City of Zagreb, but also of the Krapina-Zagorje County and Zagreb County after the aftermath of the earthquake. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180994	Now it is up to Mr. Damjan Vucelic, who will present his position, does not write here, personally this one as an independent Okay, thank you. [[Intruder: So.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180995	Dear colleagues and colleagues, dear Vice President, the most respected citizens who are here to pay a new Audi 6 for the vice president here behind me while you starve, while at the same time You don't have any wood, you don't have any heating. [[Intruder: Don't talk, don't, don't communicate with me, communicate with the public.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180996	Listen to me a little, communicate with the public, not me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180997	As a result, you have just violated Rules 33 and 34 of the Rules of Procedure, and I do not communicate with you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180998	You have no right to communicate with...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u180999	Please let me make my point.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181000	Are you deaf or what?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181001	Are you listening to me?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181002	Are you deaf?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181003	Will you stop interrupting me?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181004	Good, since you're not deaf, you've got your first warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181005	Great, now allow me to move on with my speech.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181006	I'll let you say your thoughts.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181007	Uh, so people don't have to heat up, people don't have to eat until the second vice president gets to himself here's taking on a licking car of over 300,000 kuna, not just him, there are three of them, but here's to carry on with my speech. Finally, we have come to an end with the Presidency of the EU Council. For months, Prime Minister Plenkovic boasted that Croatia would chair a community of 500 million people. He worked hard to make the impression that it was a very big deal, that he was personally responsible for it, that everyone loved and respected him and that he was a very successful politician. However, it is not his fault at all. The Presidency of the EU Council acts as a merry-go-round, each in turn for six months and only because it is a member of the EU. Therefore, it is not the fruit of some of Plenkovic's efforts and his diplomatic skills, nor is it a confirmation of even the importance and influence of Croatia in Europe. However, there is a place and time where Croatia's influence in Europe is seen, and this is when it comes to obtaining important positions, such as the President of the European Commission, the President of the European Council, the President of Parliament, the President of the 20 Committees and the President of the 2 subcommittees of Parliament. This was where the skills and influence of this government were seen, and this was what they actually gained through their service policy and what they brought Croatia down to. And while the Germans took the head of the commission, the Italians, the Italians put Tajani and placed him from parliament and replaced him again by Italian Sassoli, the French took the European Central Bank, and Prime Minister Plenkovic failed to fight for either the last and fourth vice president of the last subcommittee, of 125 presidential committees and subcommittees, 125. We don't have any, we never really had any. Plenkovic doesn't even have the courage to slap his hand on the table and tell European bureaucrats we're cut off, and if we won't appreciate ourselves so how can we expect others not to appreciate us at all? Also, Plenkovic's government boasted on all sides of its success in meeting the technical conditions for Schengen, which is only one small step that Romania and Bulgaria imagined eight years ago. They are still not in Schengen, a small technical step that Plenkovic presents as a great, great success. Very sad. And what are the priorities of our presidency of Albania and Northern Macedonia? Instead of at least taking advantage of that EU membership and EU presidency to fight corruption and the development of renewable energy sources, the emphasis is again on foreign policy. Albania and Northern Macedonia and their EU accession, because that is the most important thing for Croatian citizens, what will solve their problems. They won't, but that's what's important to Plenkovic, to show that the EU is still desirable. And Mr Plenkovic needs to start dealing with the real problems of this country, the economy, demographics, corruption, and not living in the clouds of foreign policy and diplomacy. Some successes in foreign policy, which are not really able to compensate for the huge failures in internal politics in Croatia. Thank you, Vice-President.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181008	Thank you, too. I was inspired by your speech. Now it is up to Mr. Damjan Vucelic, who will present his position, does not write here, personally this one as an independent Okay, thank you. [[Intruder: So.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181010	Dear colleagues and colleagues, dear Vice President, the most respected citizens who are here to pay a new Audi 6 for the vice president here behind me while you starve, while at the same time You don't have any wood, you don't have any heating. [[Intruder: Don't talk, don't, don't communicate with me, communicate with the public.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181011	Listen to me a little, communicate with the public, not me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181012	As a result, you have just violated Rules 33 and 34 of the Rules of Procedure, and I do not communicate with you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181013	You have no right to communicate with...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181014	Please let me make my point.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181015	Are you deaf or what?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181016	Are you listening to me?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181017	Are you deaf?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181018	Will you stop interrupting me?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181019	Good, since you're not deaf, you've got your first warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181020	Great, now allow me to move on with my speech.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181021	I'll let you say your thoughts.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181022	Uh, so people don't have to heat up, people don't have to eat until the second vice president gets to himself here's taking on a licking car of over 300,000 kuna, not just him, there are three of them, but here's to carry on with my speech. Finally, we have come to an end with the Presidency of the EU Council. For months, Prime Minister Plenkovic boasted that Croatia would chair a community of 500 million people. He worked hard to make the impression that it was a very big deal, that he was personally responsible for it, that everyone loved and respected him and that he was a very successful politician. However, it is not his fault at all. The Presidency of the EU Council acts as a merry-go-round, each in turn for six months and only because it is a member of the EU. Therefore, it is not the fruit of some of Plenkovic's efforts and his diplomatic skills, nor is it a confirmation of even the importance and influence of Croatia in Europe. However, there is a place and time where Croatia's influence in Europe is seen, and this is when it comes to obtaining important positions, such as the President of the European Commission, the President of the European Council, the President of Parliament, the President of the 20 Committees and the President of the 2 subcommittees of Parliament. This was where the skills and influence of this government were seen, and this was what they actually gained through their service policy and what they brought Croatia down to. And while the Germans took the head of the commission, the Italians, the Italians put Tajani and placed him from parliament and replaced him again by Italian Sassoli, the French took the European Central Bank, and Prime Minister Plenkovic failed to fight for either the last and fourth vice president of the last subcommittee, of 125 presidential committees and subcommittees, 125. We don't have any, we never really had any. Plenkovic doesn't even have the courage to slap his hand on the table and tell European bureaucrats we're cut off, and if we won't appreciate ourselves so how can we expect others not to appreciate us at all? Also, Plenkovic's government boasted on all sides of its success in meeting the technical conditions for Schengen, which is only one small step that Romania and Bulgaria imagined eight years ago. They are still not in Schengen, a small technical step that Plenkovic presents as a great, great success. Very sad. And what are the priorities of our presidency of Albania and Northern Macedonia? Instead of at least taking advantage of that EU membership and EU presidency to fight corruption and the development of renewable energy sources, the emphasis is again on foreign policy. Albania and Northern Macedonia and their EU accession, because that is the most important thing for Croatian citizens, what will solve their problems. They won't, but that's what's important to Plenkovic, to show that the EU is still desirable. And Mr Plenkovic needs to start dealing with the real problems of this country, the economy, demographics, corruption, and not living in the clouds of foreign policy and diplomacy. Some successes in foreign policy, which are not really able to compensate for the huge failures in internal politics in Croatia. Thank you, Vice-President.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181023	Thank you, too. I was inspired by your speech. Mr. Curaj, go ahead, which represents the position of the Club of Representatives of the CNS.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181025	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, as Monty Python would say, "and now something completely different". In fact, I'm going to talk here 14 times about one proposal, one initiative that I've directed both to the previous and current minister of administration, and that's actually the government as a whole. And I want to believe that no matter how many times I've repeated this, it may not be for this mandate, but for future mandates, that someone will regain consciousness about what's normal somewhere, established practice at all something that doesn't differ and raises no question at all. It is about receiving or hiring in public or public service. The way is what is the core and the basis of quality, the way of receiving and only receiving is the basis and the core of the quality of the work of the state administration, I will say it in one broad term and think that it would be actually effective and therefore economical because it is a service for citizens and citizens to get that service at the best possible level at the lowest possible unit of time, the most qualitative without any affection or what the Latina would say to the son of Ira et studio without any conveniences, acquaintances, anything else, as we are used to even though we have progressed far now, I must admit that, or 20, 30 years ago. But still, as long as the state is the most desirable employer of the local self-government unit, state-owned companies, public enterprises, the state as a whole, we have a lot of public pressure. And it's not good that the state is the most desirable employer, it tells us a lot about the economy, but it's known as, you can only go out there with death or I don't know what else, even though it's hard to get out of the state service, of course by your own free will. And that's why exactly the way the reception is one of the two basic elements of the administration's reform. First, who gets hired, and then how do those who are inside, how do they work and how do they evaluate and how do they do their job. That second part is much harder, but it's not indecisive, but this first part is easier, but it gives hope, gives perspective, gives an indicator in which direction we see and want. And you don't need to invent hot water, I didn't make it up. We have an EPSO system in the European Commission that performs evaluations, which performs tests that performs a single ranking list according to the percentage of solving certain tests according to the particular area you apply for, is that right, is that economy, are languages, are technically certain specific directions, etc., the same thing is here. Let's start on a pilot project, move slowly and do it wider and wider so that simply when a single ranking list is being conducted by the external body, and we already have an external education evaluation agency that conducts the state's graduation, then, along with the state's graduation, let's have state-run tests to work in the state service, and then units of local and regional self-government will get hooked up to it and will be particularly exposed to great pressure and as it ranks there, people call for oral talks. It's not over, but then it doesn't matter if you're among the top ten, you're someone's uncle, nephew, son, party member. No, you're on an independent legal basis as a state prom, so there's no talk about any manipulations, showed your knowledge, showed your expertise, and got the opportunity to be invited to another conversation. So let the first ten be called, however, to determine by talking about who this person is. And in this way we will remove any suspicions, give him perspective, no more connections, no more political-like, no more misdemeanors, no more doubts like this, or if we can't discriminate anyone because he's something or he's a member of something or something, God forbid, but too many times it's just a coincidence that it's said or too many times it happens to be unfortunate. But I don't want to believe it, I want to believe that we can go that way. It's not any space shuttle, nothing revolutionary, it's something that citizens expect from us, it's something that raises hope and faith in institutions, it's something that I believe we'll have to do absolutely over the next year if we keep to ourselves, if we stick to the goals of our government and the state itself being efficient, economical and at the service of our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181026	Thank you very much. Go get better, eat something, get some vitamins B6 and B12, Dr. Mrsic B12 more and see you at 3:30. MEETING IN 14.39 A.M.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181027	We're going to debate number 8, the club of representatives of the CNS, the esteemed colleague of Christmas Macar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181028	Thank you very much, Your Honor. My colleagues and colleagues, I never thought I'd be here at the assembly talking about this subject. For us at the HNS, it doesn't make any difference for me either, and we don't share people on a national basis, or for better skin, the definition for us is all equal and so is for me, but we need to respect the laws, and we all have the same rights and the same obligations. To the frequent remarks of their neighbours, relatives, acquaintances of uncertainty and harassment by individuals of the Roma national minority who have recently moved to the villages of our region, I would answer that these are individual cases, that they need to be understood, that they need help. And I really think they need help. And recently, in my family, I felt what uncertainty meant. I didn't go public with that data until now, but last week, the press contacted me to check some facts and since I confirmed it to them, so I'm going to bring it out here. I was at Christmas Eve at my mother's house when she was 82 years old, and the robbers came, and they robbed her, and they beat her up, and she ended up in the hospital motionless. It has been determined by the police that there are individuals of the Roma national minority who have recently moved and who have already recorded a number of criminal and criminal offences. I don't want to generalise and say that the Roma national minority is problematic, but unfortunately, a large part of the individuals are. And it really happened that our locals don't dare go out into the streets, that they're not safe in their homes, they're no longer the priority infrastructure projects, how to improve life, but the main problem is security in their own home. And we should finally start implementing the laws because the laws apply to everyone, it's true that we have too few police officers, that we have too few social workers, but when they do their job, the judiciary should do theirs, not often schedule. They need to start from children who are hardly neglected in such families, walk alone on the street until late in the night, are forced to beg, are visible traumas and are seen daily in their homes, where fights, many alcohols are present, and unfortunately many of them do not even finish primary schooling, are often left out of school and leave elementary school half-writers. Children should be raised, and if children neglect themselves, they should not remain in such families. Regardless of the ordinary law, it should not happen that girls are 13, 14. They're having a baby. It's all a big child neglect. It would be good if high school had become mandatory anyway, we had compulsory, free students, we had free transportation, so maybe those kids would finish their education and get a better job, which is normal because it would be a professional workforce. So we ask nothing but that the same laws apply to all regardless of whether they are Croats, whether they are members of a particular national minority. At this point, I believe that by increasing the number of police patrols themselves, it would help at least a little increase in security, so I ask the minister to increase the number of police officers in the PP Ludbreg and thus help the locals of this region to start living normally.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181029	The next club representative is the HNS on behalf of whom the respected representative, Stjepan Curaj, will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181030	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I'll take advantage of this, an opportunity just to remind myself of something that I've spoken countless times from this pay phone about certain proposals of the legal, initiative that I've been up to in the last year. The first is related to the introduction of a single employment system for the state service through a single competition and a single ranking list to be implemented by the Agency for the External Evaluation of Education. Something like the EPSOS Employment System in the EU Commission to guarantee impartiality, which would guarantee quality, which would guarantee our citizens' ability to come to the desired career in the state service, which is unfortunately today the first choice of most of our fellow citizens due to a likely economy that is not yet strong enough to overcome all the benefits it carries. Another initiative that I mentioned here the other day, in fact, in the debate yesterday, is to legally amend several laws that would ensure or guarantee the installation of carbon monoxide detectors into all households where there is a consumption that has internal combustion, specifically, is most often about gas boilers, a van of water heaters on the load of distributors and suppliers. That they are prescribed that as one of those articles guaranteeing the security of supply and consumption to end-users to introduce this as an obligation for the safety of our citizens because 30 people suffer annually, not a small number and fatal from the inhaling of carbon monoxide or CO. And we've had countless times in the media and that sad news. With this we get a detector that would alarm immediately at the minimum amount of carbon monoxide in the room and people would know, I believe have a higher dose and safety, and thus save countless lives. That's something I'm expecting. The third part, and by which I am also passing what I would say, from words to actions, namely, after these presentations, I will refer each of these initiatives to one such legislative proposal, and the third proposal may be the most banal of the first, and the word is a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Electronic Media, a proposal that I have made today, which I have sent to the culture minister, not to the parliamentary procedure, but to the minister that, if they are working on the same amendments to integrate it into their proposals, if, of course, they do not report, they do not respond, then I will refer it to the parliamentary procedure. In fact, it's very simple, it's something like this, I say, once again, it may sound banal, but not something that every citizen, I'm sure they've met, whether they know it or not. Whether you're aware of it or not. And this is about broadcasting in audiovisual commercial communication, first of all, let's say, when we talk about television, when you have certain information shows or any other and then you have that end of the program, the yingle that's usually 30 to 40, and even 50% stronger in volume than the regular program. And also, commercial advertising program. That's it. So you have a set volume level on your receiver to one, so step up to hear what's being said on some shows, on information shows, and then at some point there's an end to the program and then you hear a duo duo so nice that your neighbor hears you watch that diary or watch that show and then there's commercials that are louder and then they're coming back, then you're shushing, faster-better because someone in the house says turn down that TV, etc. Then maybe there's a fight, and then you turn it down and then the program starts and then you don't hear again. Well, you don't know you've been deafer, so you're stepping up and so, unfortunately, many of our fellow citizens, I'm sure the team met and that's something I didn't just see right now, so I'm going to make something up. This is something that exists in countries like Italy and the United States where it is precisely positive regulations limited to the volume of audio-visual commercial communication compared to the rest of the programme. So, it can be, let's make a proposal legal is 5% maximum deviation and I believe, here's that, if nothing else, it will bring less arguments into our homes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181031	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181032	And the final statement of views on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the CNS fellow Stjepan Curaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181033	Thank you, Vice President. I will, as I said and on Friday, repeat clearly that the more that might get into your ear, the more like a proposal, the initiative I've been making here for the past year. Just to be boring to myself like that, and hopefully to get as far away from it as possible. And to say right here that it has its own, its results, and that I'm somewhat in that least part of it, something I've done. The first part I have already proposed for a year is the introduction of a single employment system into the state service, I hope also in the public sector through a single competition, a single ranking list, by example, not some imaginary hot water now proposed here, but how it works for the European Commission. You have an external body, sometimes it can be our Agency for external evaluation of education that conducts the state's graduation in the same way, with the same scruples, with the same seriousness and in the ultimate line of criminal provisions for any malversion. It conducts tests for certain areas of employment in the state administration and that, on the basis of these tests, a single ranking list is formed based on certain professions which then these same candidates appear in an open competition and are invited to discuss. I think it's clear to everyone now, it should be clear what that means, which is impartiality, which is the possibility that the most qualified people who showed the most knowledge come up with those oral interviews, and then let's choose the first 5 who applied or 10 who were the lists were on 101 or 781, mostly who applied, for which particular job, in which particular place. Then it wouldn't matter any more if those people were someone's cousins, godfathers, friends, God forbid partying or anything else. Knowledge, competence and a unique ranking list. That's something to go on. The second part, the second part, which I have set on the current clock and presented as an initiative by the Minister, is the mandatory installation of carbon monoxide detectors in households, especially those heated on a gas boiler, of course, would be desirable for all types of heating with internal combustion where this gas is as a potential byproduct, on the load of distributors and gas energy suppliers or natural gas. I don't have to mention what it means for the safety of citizens, according to some data I've been able to get, almost 30-year-olds are poisoned by carbon monoxide, not a small number of these poisonings end with death. We had a situation like this last year, and I think it's in accordance with the gas market law where we owe them, where the suppliers... the obligation to deliver and carry out their work in the safest possible way and to achieve the safety of end-users or citizens. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think it's something that citizens shouldn't be costing, shouldn't be costing, thus increasing security and absolutely protecting every life that is. And the third thing I said and I'm glad that Friday I got confirmation from the Ministry of Culture that my draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on Electronic Media, which I noticed, did not exist, and in everyday life there is a situation where we have parts of the television programme, which refers to radios that are much or much louder than the regular program, the rest, specifically about advertising or those breaking yingles between certain segments of the programme. So pay attention, I believe that the citizens have already noticed that, when they watch a particular programme, the most news, they step up to hear what is said and at one point start commercials, the yingles start up to 30, 40% louder than the rest of the program. Of course the neighbor also hears what is seen and heard here, to get a commercial and to hear those in other rooms and commercials and above all the yinglows, and I think it's a practice that should be banned, to limit it to a minimum. It's also, something that didn't just come out of the blue to me now, of course I was aware that it was happening, but first of all, it was Italy, it was in America, and I think it was something for the protection of both consumers and citizens themselves, and I'm glad that I put this, this proposal from this pay phone, sent it to the ministry, and they decided to incorporate it into their amendments and additions to the law and that it would live. So I say, I continue with these proposals and hope for the same outcome. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181034	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181035	The 12th debate of the Club of HNS Representatives, a respected colleague, Stjepan Curaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181036	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I wish, here we are now in February on time to warn, announce, whatever this is called something that is inevitable, something that if history can teach us something is certainly a problem in summer months. Namely, I am talking about something specific to the end of where I come from, for Osijek, Osijek-Baranja County, but also other counties in Croatia such as Međimurska etc. It's a mosquito plague. This may seem like the first trivial, but believe me, it's all but trivial. This is also a health problem when we say that mosquitoes and carriers of certain viruses, we have not so long ago and those great fears for the Zika virus, this is an economic problem when we talk about the consequences that this has on tourism, especially continental tourism that we all so warmly support, we say that we need to develop and boast that there are excellent indicators, especially here in Osijek-Baranja County. We can't talk about some continental tourism when you go out, so you have a 100-thousand mallet, I'm a little out of line, but it's not far. And it is economical as well as livestock production, which is especially when I talk about Osijek-Baranja County again, one of the largest producers and agricultural totals as a county, especially livestock. And we have the eternal problem of fiscal capacity units of local self-government because other than the city of Osijek, none can quite measure or allocate funds for any treatment of mosquitoes, and we know that aircraft treatment and it was last year and it showed a great sigh, a big problem, waiting to just get rid of itself and eventually the state had to intervene again and the county remembered to engage, so let's not wait when it's late. Let's try to think now, try to prevent as much as we do in everything, and something that becomes a health, economic problem and, of course, reduces the quality of life for the citizens. I don't believe that any citizen in Croatia should be a low-level citizen and put it that way, and that's up there. Because I said that here before I don't know how many, a year and a few days ago when I've been putting up with the amendment for such a problem, to the budget of 2019, so in 2018, I'd see how that would solve for a row of mosquitoes going on in a city or area, a county at sea. That would be a national problem. I'm sure you'd say life would put on it. That in one Dubrovnik, even Zadar, there is something like that, such an ascension appears. Well, that would put the whole country on its feet. I do not want to think that we citizens of the second order, less valuable, less important just because we are in the east of Croatia, just because we are less developed, only because perhaps demographic trends do not benefit us etc., etc. That's not what I mean, I don't think it's supposed to be like that, and I don't really believe it is, but let's not wait till it's too late. Let's think today about what measures, how, what funding, how it's going to be prevened and treated tomorrow. Because I'm saying, except for the city of Osijek, which is constantly investing in it every year, it's not enough when we talk about Kopački rit, when we're talking about powerful surfaces, you can't just limit yourself to the administrative area of the city, some treatment... or any other if we know my mosquitoes can fly, and 50 kilometers may be along the wind, but certainly 20-and-a-half miles, that's the least problem, so that's the zone of coverage. And yet I say so insignificantly because we must think about every part of our country. So this is why I want to draw attention to the new Minister of Health, is this primarily a health problem, but in all of us, in cooperation with all units of local self-government and county and the city and other municipalities and the Government of the Republic of Croatia to bring strategy, plan resources, to immediately know when, what part of which will be provided, and not to wait for the number of stings to be unimaginable, intolerable and to start a strike. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181037	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181038	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the CNS will now speak the esteemed representative of Stjepan Curaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181039	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I will take this opportunity to remind and repeat, point out, propose initiatives and initiatives that I have been proposing here for many months and even more than a year. Some, what I can say are accepted, incorporated into legal proposals. Today, not only by my humble court, but by the court of citizenship and by what we can see from the effects are greatly welcomed and used above all when we talk about the possibility of withdrawing part of capitalised savings from the second pillar when leaving the two-stage pension of those 15% that I have proposed, which we have managed to agree and integrate into the law and now the large 90% of citizens decide practically and over 80% for that amount. So you can. You need to be persistent and have good associates anyway. The second part of the proposal was already launched yesterday in a public debate related to an uncontrollable... program on electronic media when it comes to advertising and those breaking Jingles in order to gain more attention from viewers, listeners to exactly the advertising or advertising of the programme itself. So it is an unfavourable or not good practice that is not intended to protect consumers. The Ministry of Culture has accepted my legal proposal and it is in public debate. What I will continue to insist on is, above all, when we talk about the security of our citizens especially in months while heating it up and I will also announce an amendment and a proposal to amend and supplement the gas market law to prescribe mandatory installation of carbon monoxide detectors in all households where there is a gas consumption or a concrete gas boiler that can release CO on the burden of distributed distributors and suppliers. Article 5 of the same law provides that the aim is to ensure the safe delivery and use of natural gas, and that is something that is in line with existing standards, and that is something we should have done long ago because I don't know how many people have died from carbon monoxide poisoning so far, and yearly in research, I found information that almost 30 poisonings are in one year. So one life is already if it's saved it's a huge thing and it doesn't have a price, and I don't think that given the game of money that comes from distributors and operators here or the supplier here, it's something that's the minimum that you need if you need to and take from them some, but for the safety of the citizens there doesn't have that price. So I'm announcing this way that I'm also going to guide it in accordance with the initiative that I put on the current clock to the forward ministry, and I hope as soon as possible to integrate that idea or already some form of this idea just with the main and clear goal of getting our citizens a free model, so now if they want to invest in some advanced ones and in the research, I've seen that they have those who can text, or on their cell phone, those who can immediately dig up the gas if they detect so automatically. Whatever it is, safety must be first, especially as we go later, the older those boilers are and the less they are maintained. And I would still take advantage of the opportunity and remind myself once and for all of the same proposal and it is related to the cancer wound of our society of all citizens who recognized it and it is related to employment in the public sector to remove any doubts once and for all, we will create a system that will be based on an independent body as with a state graduate, the Agency for the Evaluation of Higher Education Single Competition, Tests, a single ranking list by individual sectors, by percentage of resolution and only when there is a need and competition you will apply and in accordance with your rank you will be invited to further discussions. I think it is a minimum that our citizens should expect us to restore trust in the institutions that the most capable ones who have shown the most knowledge are hired to have no more doubts because there is someone else's cousin, godfather, friend, party colleague whatever whenever it shows up as it does in the European Commission knowledge on a test that is equal to anyone who can be performed twice a year then everything is still a matter of formality. These are some things that will certainly raise confidence in us politicians and the state system, but also increase efficiency and believe tomorrow and the very economy of the state... Thank you. [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181040	The next Club of Representatives is that of the CNS on behalf of which they will speak the esteemed representative of the Goddess Makar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181041	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues. I don't have a problem talking in front of an empty assembly and calling my colleagues because I know they're probably in clubs or other places where they have to be at this moment, but if this appeal comes to one person, to one of our citizens, especially a woman, and if it's good, if it's for her to start by hearing this debate and taking more care of her health, I think this speech is successful. As you already know, today is red dress day. A day dedicated to fighting strokes and heart disease in women with the aim of encouraging women to take care of their health. It is primarily about the health of the heart and blood vessels because most of these diseases can be prevented by healthy habits of life that unfortunately most of us do not have. He also wants to encourage healthcare professionals to pay special attention to the stroke of heart disease in women who are still underrecognizable, under-expressive and undertreated. The day of red dresses is marked on the first Friday of February and this is the second year that this campaign, launched by the Croatian Neurological Society in 2019, is being conducted in the Republic of Croatia. The campaign symbol is a worm dress, a dress like a universal picture of a woman and red as a color of health, life and liveliness, as well as warnings. As for the history of this campaign, she would point out that the first Red Dress Day campaign, "Go Red for Women" launched in America, or the American Cardiological Society launched a campaign in 2004 in the United States and the World Cardiological Federation extended the campaign to the world level. Today, more than 50 countries are conducting a national campaign "Go Red for Women" by raising awareness and providing means to combat heart disease and strokes through the organisation of professional gatherings, educational and promotional campaigns, fashion magazines, health examinations, sports events. Scientific studies show that significantly more women than men die from strokes and heart disease but also that strokes and heart disease in women have their specificities and different symptoms as a result of which they are not recognized in due time and are not treated adequately. In Croatia, the second cause of death in men and women as well as in Europe, 6137 people died in 2018, and 11.6%, respectively. Of these, 2570 dead men, 9.9% and 3559 dead women, which is 13.3% of all dead women. Although more women die from stroke than men, in women it is still underrated as a health problem and education and awareness-raising is needed at the level of profession and the general public in the problem of stroke in women. It is also important to stress that every year, more women die of stroke than breast cancer, it is important to be aware of the risk factors and take appropriate measures to contain this disease. Women, I urge all of us to change our way of life and thus reduce the risk of stroke and your men to pay more attention and care for their wives, mothers, daughters, colleagues and friends. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181042	Thank you very much. This would end today's session, we will continue on Wednesday, February 12, at 9:30 and the first item will be the Proposal for a Law amending the National Infrastructure of Spatial Data, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 835. Have a nice weekend. Session interrupted at 13.50 p.m. The next club is the HNS on behalf of which the respected representative, Stjepan Curaj, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181044	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I would like to repeat this way one proposal that I made when there was a debate on the Law on maternity benefits that is now between the two readings in the assembly. Given that my proposal is and I think it is not just about this law, and that is why I want to strengthen it once again and establish it, so if it is necessary to complete with a new amendment to the law, the Labour Act, the Pension Insurance Act, and I hope that this same proposal will be adopted in the Second Reading in the Family Rewards Act. In fact, it is a very concrete measure that is not only demographic but has wider implications, which is that some of the things that have been home to us and generally been accepted as something in the last few years since we brought it in, and this is the possibility of working half the time and receiving a pension. I suggest that the same analogy be applied to the use of those other 6 months or parental leave for men or for fathers and mothers. Why? Not only because many of our parents, I hope an ever greater and larger number will have a higher salary in the future than these new proposed 4.991,20 kunas as compensation, is that maximum. Well, one who has 10,000 kunas of pay means if he wants to stay with his child for another six months, he gets half. This would mean that he can keep that fee and get half the salary, practically be on the same or on his own from what he normally pays or even have an increase in income if it can be regulated, but thus not only that financial aspect, which is that people can know that leaving and parenting is not going to pay them... financially,... some salary benefit given these fees, I would like to see more and more of such a number, that they are growing and higher wages, but when we look at the average wage it happens but also that professional aspect of every mother. First of all, I'm talking about mothers who unfortunately meet in employment with their employers to go on maternity or parental leave is something that we really have to plan professionally, weigh, so that we don't lose the ability to progress, not to end order again, and in the end line and in the job itself, because even though we all know it's forbidden, God forbid, we all know that many employers are counting whether or not a woman has been born, whether there are children or not, and there is an unfair difference in the labour market, and that's what we as a country need to regulate, skip, reduce and do everything in our ability to encourage and do as a demographic measure, but also the possibility that all parents have what they would say to remain those other 6 months with their child, if they want to fully or at least in those half of working time where they can really be encouraged and can't be in any of their own interest, which is less than they can be in their own interests, which they can't be, because of any of any of any kind of any kind of money, or other kind of money, which they don's, which is less of money, which they don't be in their own. And that is something that may not be possible, not perhaps, but certainly cannot be solved by the law in question because I hope that the proposal will be incorporated between these two readings, but first of all we have other laws and pensions, probably because of the payment of contributions and the internship itself, as well as the Labour Act because of the presence in the workplace and the way it is regulated for certain persons. You know when labour inspectors come to see who and on what basis they do what they do. So that's something that's not big changes, and they'd have an extremely big meaning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181045	We're continuing to take a stand on behalf of the Representatives' Club. Next up is a colleague, Stjepan Curaj, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the CNS, here's a colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181046	I thank the esteemed Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I'm going to do something that I thought someone would mention before me, but I don't know, obviously we have different topics, and I think this is one of the most important, particularly foreign-political issues that have a profound impact on the lives of everyday people. First of all, I would like to say clearly and unequivocally that the HNS as a party favouring a pro-European open, tolerated Croatia strongly condemns the Hungarian prime minister's statement that it will include Croatia in the alliance against the EU. Indeed, I find it unheard of, and that someone allows the whole country to speak in the name of it, this country has its elected representatives, legal authority, legitimacy, and thanks to God and the mind to decide for itself what is best for her. We don't need anyone else, and throughout history, we've obviously had such examples. Thank God we're not in any communities anymore. Someone's pushing something we don't want. Namely, that statement, and what actually hides behind it is just a step back. There is a folk saying that says, “Do not cut the branch you are sitting on. ” What has the EU brought us? I think all those who fight today for some national interests at the same time say we haven't withdrawn enough funds. It's a little contradictory, but as a rule, yes. The EU has given us an opportunity, opportunities that every country needs to take advantage of. There are also potential dangers, one of them is certainly this freedom of the labour market, business creation, etc., but there are many more opportunities that we use and should use even better, not only in terms of the one that is most engrossed, which we all see when we open doors and new leggoes and new roads and new buildings and energy renovations and everything else that is done with resources but also the opportunity to better arrange our country, to learn from those who have more experience and who have more mistakes behind them not to make the same mistakes. Is there a question of growth, a question of standards, a question of the rights of all possible groups in society and citizens in general, this allows us the EU. There is no longer any need for anyone in any municipality, city, county to know anyone politically, friendly, any way to provide him, let him know, let him do something for his citizens. This is what the EU has elegantly removed from our hands, thank God, that you should now only have the brains and knowledge and perseverance and work for your municipality, your city, your county and you will bring those funds as well as bring food to us in order to bring as much as possible. And not that we're gonna be the ones to decide this yes, not to raise some values to this one and I don't know what to bid. This is the most mature and basic example of why certain municipalities grow, because thanks to God, they no longer need to know anyone but to have enough brains and knowledge. Not to mention those common values from freedom to humanity. And that's why I'm thinking here, and I call once again to quickly, clearly, unequivocally read ourselves as a state and condemn these statements and returns, who knows where in what dark times and what God does not give to the community. And this means that we expect the Prime Minister and newly elected President Milanovic to clarify it once, and to be what we say to our own people and to determine our own fates, not to allow someone to drag us back and cut our own branch on which we are sitting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181047	Mr. Mario Habek will present the position of the Club of Representatives of the CNS, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181048	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. In April of last year, a company law was adopted, which among other things prescribed the obligation to keep business books in the event of the liquidation of the company. This is a defined article. 127. The law states that business books and documentation of the company liquidators surrender to the protection of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce. HGK is obliged to keep and access these received documents in accordance with the rules governing the handling of archive materials and archives. The remuneration for the storage and storage of business books and documents of the company shall be subject to the burden of the company before its removal in the amount laid down by the Regulation by the Minister responsible for the affairs of the judiciary. The regulation itself was adopted at the beginning of this year and amounts to the defined by it, which leads to the conclusion that the process of closing the company can significantly burden the entrepreneur and, as a future variable cost in the start, has a negative impact on the business activities and a healthy investment climate in the country. It is not only that throughout its business cycle, the entrepreneur encounters a series of unwarranted financial commitments, administrative barriers and costs, but it is also burdened by the company for a period of time after the company has been liquidated. By adopting such a provision of the Law, I think we were wrong because we directly damage the development of entrepreneurship, especially that small and medium-sized enterprises in Croatia and employ almost all employees in business entities, but at the time of the Law, we were not familiar with the amount of compensation that the minister subsequently prescribed, so, together with my colleague, Stjepan Curaj, I made a proposal to amend the Law on Commercial Companies which I propose to abolish the obligation to pay compensation for keeping business books and documents of society after the liquidation. It is time to simplify existing practice, to create legal frameworks that will encourage the entrepreneurship climate and a healthy environment for long-term investment instead of rigid administrations and real legal uncertainty. It is necessary to liberate unwarranted entrepreneurs, invest in the digitisation of public service services and enable entrepreneurs to grow and develop sustainablely. Not through restrictions but stimulation, because the only stable entrepreneurship condition is for a successful economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181049	The next Club of Representatives will be the CNS on behalf of which the respected representative, Stjepan Curaj, will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181050	To begin, I thank the esteemed Vice President. I'm going to start this exhibition with the quote "A in HS this morning is the same dungism, whose old bib is Ustasha and whose partisan?" finished the quote. So, ladies and gentlemen, this today, and even these days, God, and this entire term of office, is becoming more and more a circus, into an inappropriateness, something that doesn't belong in this high house, and then we're surprised when we see it on the street. The Rules of Procedure of the HS shall indicate, Art. In 240th century 4, a reminder with the words taken will be given to the representative and, when, calls for violence or hatred, or when insulting Croatian people, religious, national and other communities, sexual, gender and other groups, and foreign states and international organisations, and their representatives. We can say that someone's holding on, someone's holding on, but we need to be an example here, and every hate speech should be condemned, and as long as we deal with what feeds the lowest passions of our citizens, we lose everyone, citizens together with us. No wonder HS has the best citizen rating at the time it doesn't sit, and it's the highest institution of this country, every state and nation. Who's to blame? Well, it's a little everyone. He can't finger a single person. A little everyone. The media who find it interesting to see whether people like conflicts and rather today this will be news than any proposals that come here, initiatives, amendments, changes, good things, here I personally have been talking about 10 times now, now we are talking about different things that would certainly improve and improve the standard of Croatian citizens, some of them are doing, some are being made and so should be. I'm not saying I'm gonna stop doing this because it's not news, but we can't have all the news coming out of here that potentiate conflicts, hatred, intolerance, and we're strictly going to have to condemn it by starting with the masseuse, and then what's going on on the street. And there's no excuse when we see the fur dolls being burned, so now this one's laughing, this one's not laughing, no one's laughing, no one's being offended, no one's causing hate speech, no excuse if there's, we could be partisan here, so now we can get up and get up, paraphrase, we won't be able to power. Today I thought I'd talk about Pink T-shirts, or National Day of Fight against peer violence. My colleague Pooh said something before that. And it says for the prevention of peer violence, education at all social levels is important, and we adults should be a pattern of positive examples that we send a message of zero tolerance to any form of violence. That's what I'm saying about peer violence, and I think it can be passed on to anything else. We go from ourselves, not to give up on low passions, not to fall into traps and do what the citizens here choose us to do, and that's to work for the benefit of all citizens. Surely no one can tell me that raising low passions, identifying on national grounds is why someone should be chosen, whatever. Today, we want to pick someone in HS today because it is determined, it stands out as a certain national basis beyond the Constitutional Law, so we're not talking about constitutional rights,... The rest of us 140 here. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Please, where are we taking us? Just back up and just on that first quote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181051	Mr Stjepan Curaj will present the position of the Club of Representatives of the CNS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181052	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I'm going to remind the public a little bit of what we all see more or less, we all know, especially when we talk about Slavonia and Baranja, when we talk about inequality. We do not need to look far at the differences in standards, differences in lifestyle and specifically the pay gaps when we speak within Croatia itself. We aim for European values, we strive for European standards, we strive for levels, and we ourselves in Croatia have great inequalities. Currently, five Slavonian Baranja counties on average have an 80% average net salary. 80% of people receive that salary below average. So real somewhere in Croatia is about 6,500 average net salary in Slavonia and Baranja below 5,500, and for example in Zagreb 7,500, it means almost 40% higher, for something that is 200, 250km, 300 maybe maximum road lines away from Zagreb. And then, of course, a series of measures are trying to make and I can even say that the concentration and concern of the Slavonia and Baranja project and gives some results, there is over 11 billion agreed, withdrawn over 4.5 billion to encourage entrepreneurship, education, health, water supply, draining, energy recovery, etc., employment etc. But they all have a great majority in common to raise one quality of life, to invest in infrastructure, but not in the most important maybe we're free of it if we don't have enough people. We know here many times in the debates when any topic that contains in itself railways in the name of all very nice to say what the problem is, very nice to diagnose it. So far, the same ones who have always objected in opposition, when they were opposition to this literally no exceptions have done much more, it's not exactly that something too obvious and could. Now, by opening the eu funds, we have one chance, one door is open, but it's not enough. The railway, except for economic growth if it connects to logistics, freight transport, but also to a passenger who then has a demographic measure, would not need that first migration of ours closed when people left Osijek from Slavonia and Baranja to Zagreb. Why? Because of that information I said at the beginning, 40% higher wages, more opportunities, more opportunities. I'm not saying that it should now be taken away from Zagreb and be something jealous, no, but it should develop, it should take advantage of its comparative advantage. Railways are just one of such comparative advantages, even the European Commission says the problem of the number one transport sector in Croatia is railways. It is significantly lagging behind the EU average and let's say some shifts have been seen since last year. However, I cannot be satisfied when we look at Slavonia and Baranja to build only one railway section between Vukovar and Vinkovec worth about 72 million euros and be careful that this is a project co-financed by a freight character and on it is built a rail to the maximum design speed of 120 km/h in 2019-20, 120 km/h when around the world flies over 200, 300 per hour is connected to the freight transport of Luke Vukovar. And great. The share of projects worth 11 million euros is projected, who knows how long it takes and when it will be done when our projects last for several years, and be careful, it is a reconstruction, so there is no buyout, no expropriation, no new routes, there's no I don't know what. So the priority must be known, I've already made a proposal here, and now I'm going to do it over and over again, and that's that railroads have to become our new highways. Just using highway infrastructure and potential through concessions, monetization to invest that money in fast construction, not for 20 years, but for 3 to 5 years of high-speed railways that will connect our landscapes and enable economic development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181053	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181054	We're going to the tenth debate, dear colleague Stjepan Curaj and the club of representatives of the CNS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181055	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues and colleagues, today is Croatia, and in fact the whole of Europe as well as the world ahead of a major exam. Before the eternal doubt which is the level and extent of security and what is the level of humanity at the same time. How to reconcile those two with an obvious conflicting concept and how to remain human in all the challenges that new challenges bring before us. We must first of all be human, and that is the basis for being guided. Today's situation with the migrant crisis, new announcements is also a major test and an exam for Europe, but I think it is also an opportunity to show that the common sense and purpose of a united Europe has no alternative. Imagine a situation that everyone for themselves. To whom and what would this contribute, how would the whole of Europe behave and individual countries and us as part of this Europe? This, today, by this crisis that is ahead of us clearly and unequivocally, shows what is the point, one of the main objectives and the purpose of unifying European space. That's step one. The second step is in what are our powers, how to act, how to react to the source of the problem, and not where the consequences are here. I think it's clear now to everyone and that's exactly the direction in which European leaders and leaders work. No country must be a hostage of Europe, we, like those who have practically the longest external border of the EU, as well as countries such as Greece, Bulgaria that are the first to be hit. We all have to be the same and the same in common, and we don't think that's any of our business. When we talk about Croatia, how will we prepare ourselves, then we talk about the issue of the security aspect, and even in the concept of security and these health threats, it is certain that it will be possible for millions of people who are now standing there to question whether they pose a certain threat to safety as to the health aspect and all others, but we must not lose that humanity, we must know how. And now we're questioning how we're going to deal with it, how are we going to deal with it? We have a system and coordination of homeland security and the Homeland Security Act, but we have no further elaborated possibilities of how to implement it in the sense that the military can help, can help with logistics, nutrition, transportation, but cannot act. And that's good and that's how it's supposed to be. In peace, the army has nothing to do with civilians, don't give God threats to weapons or anything like that. The police may obviously not have enough capacity. We should find a model that exists somewhere in the world, perhaps not identical, apply it to ours in which we would unite the police, military resources, but also civilian headquarters and reserve units, if we should and get a kind army in peace. Somewhere they call it the National Guard, I think she, she has in France, she has in Portugal, the most famous in the United States. In my opinion, it's premilitarized, but its meaning and tasks could perhaps be applied in some way and used here. Sending tanks to people is not the solution. Letting it go like we don't care, so let it be whatever it is, it's absolutely not the answer. And actually, in my opinion, I think the solution is always somewhere between being human and keeping that safety. And just maybe legally bring new opportunities to form such a body that will be a kind of army in peace and that will actually help the police with the powers they have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181056	Now it's the Club of Representatives of the CNS, dear colleague Stjepan Curaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181057	I would like to thank the esteemed president, dear colleagues and colleagues. We all know that by entering the European Union we have been given a huge opportunity, I have said this several times here, which finally allows those who know, can, will, regardless of any structures of power at any level to do what citizens choose for them, it is to bring a better life to their citizens, in their own regions, and therefore use other people's money, and to their brains and knowledge and to provide money. One of these models and we all see it as an opportunity here, and we need to see, and it is one of the stakeholders and our economic development namely, one of the things that the European Commission and the European Union has provided us in this last envelope on the 14th-20th, is integrated territorial investment called ITU, in fact, which is aimed at promoting sustainable urban development, strengthening the role of cities as a driver of economic development and cooperation between the local and regional self-government units, and the development of administrative capacity of cities. Why am I saying that? Because I think that, above all, we should open up the topics of the very position of regional policy that should have its subsidiarity first as one of the fundamental postulates of the European Union or the Commission, but that it also deals with equating actual development and finding successful decentralisation models, means the same independence that the European Union has given us. And the reason why I want to call here, first of all, the Ministry of Regional Development and the European Union funds to be involved in active, without delaying the implementation of exactly and withdrawing these funds from the ITU as regards the City of Osijek and urban agglomeration of the City of Osijek, because in the last few weeks it has become some crazy scheme of circumstances, and I believe ignorance and awkwardness, urban agglomeration of the Municipality of Pununovci. Why and how, to me it remains unclear, with which objectives, I do not want to believe that they are political, it certainly refuses, and any insinuation that it has to do with because those 11 municipalities are more or less in power there, so now they have something against that the cities of Osijek, Belišce, Valpovo, possibly the Chepin Municipality as one of the largest in Osijek,... HDZ, so now they're gonna replace something, I reject it, and it can't, it can't, and I don't think it's the reason, because it would be the biggest shame we have. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I therefore call on the Ministry of Regional Development to enter the case as quickly as possible, to see how and why, because in the final line it is legally determined that the holder of urban agglomeration of urban development is also probably the City, not the Municipality, and that the legal whistle so that it cannot be replaced by the mayor from that position, and that it is only counterproductive, especially if we are talking about urban agglomeration that is the best of 7 of which we have in Croatia, Croatia, which is, which is, which is, or which has called for a call worth 89%. So, and here I call here and Mayor Anusic with whom we have as HNS excellent cooperation, we have so far had, and of course all the actors from the Ministry that perhaps through this party, if you can already say, the lines with regard to those 11 Mahma municipalities are from HDZ, to influence, to sit at the table and see what is the real problem, is what is stated de facto not. And that we're not taking steps backwards, and that we're not doing our own problems instead of doing solutions, because of some perhaps individual petty interests, I understand maybe these municipalities don't understand, they don't have the capacity and everything that they're doing, and that's why I don't understand them, that kind of their own decisions, and I don't want to believe that it has anything to do with politics. And I don't think so, I think there's just one discrepancy and it's just a coincidence that they're here on one side of the HDZ Community, on the other hand, everyone else, or cities for urban agglomeration. When it may be a community agglomeration, then it will probably make more sense to be at the head of the municipality, and this so far is an absolute laugh that entertains the public, distracts us from what we should do, which is to ensure our citizens have a better quality, better life, more quality projects and withdraw funds. And that is why I would like to call on the Ministry of Regional Development and the European Union funds to get involved as soon as possible, yes... That... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The knot, if at all, is a knot, because there is nothing controversial about it, to cut it off and move on, use this last year of this envelope and especially get into the next one even more ready and better, because I say there's a lot of it in play and I think we owe it to our citizens, and that's why I call on all sides to sit down and to influence these municipalities to still see what's in the law and what's good for urban agglomeration. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181058	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181059	And in the end, Stjepan Curaj will present the position of the Club of Representatives of the CNS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181060	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I would like to call everyone from this place to account, to caution, to say that there is no room for unnecessary panic that is harmful, malignant, at the very end of the line against the law. Spreading a variety of news, voice messages about some extraordinary states that are scheduled, etc. They're fake and you should say that. Panic spread is not good. In the end, this spread of panic can cost us far more than this epidemic itself, for which we must be extremely careful to approach with extreme responsibility and for which we should not think that it alone will go away. But one is the difference, being prepared and ready for all possibilities, and the other is to act panicously like there will be no more tomorrow. And these are the two greatest dangers we face today. We have to be ready. The government is doing everything. Good examples are of, say, keeping the teaching distance, which is in preparation for God’s help. We have such systems of protection measures, stock supplies, everything we need to do as a state that has always been for God's sake. And it should now only be reinforced yet, but not to announce a wide application, not to shine panic, not to spread false information, false news. Because everything you hear with some messages someone said- told you is a lie. Just trust the verified information that comes from the verified sources of people who are authorized to give it. That's all the information you need to take. And all the recommendations people here have been telling you, people who have been working on these nights for weeks, days, medical staff, headquarters, and certainly everything is going to be done and scenario A, B, C, D, if you want the whole alphabet. So let's be careful, let's be responsible. Let's take all the measures. We keep an eye on our health. We keep an eye on the health of others, but let us in no way spread all false news and panic because in the end it will cost us far more than this very danger, and that is what we must not allow. Let's look at the information, form ourselves, follow the instructions, not put ourselves at risk where we shouldn't, but surely let's not succumb to some justified panic, some news I don't know just where they come from and what they come from and what they don't need to be excluded from being maligned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181061	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181062	We are now moving on to the presentation of club positions and the first one on behalf of the HNS Club will be spoken by the esteemed representative Stjepan Curaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181063	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, very briefly, I think it is never and there is no limit to how many we can invite people to be responsible, invite people to be simple to prepare, normally, follow instructions and not cause panic. What follows us next week is also one of the preventive measures and what needs to be highlighted. As long as we work smartly on prevention as long as we have the chance to deal with this with the smallest consequences, both for the lives and for the health of people and for our economy. We know what the priority is, but we can't be blind to another. And precisely all the panic from the available announcements do us harm. What we still need to consider is to enable people who really have children at home, young children to work remotely. I expect it to be introduced as well as the legal possibility of working from home, and for those who, because of the nature of the job, can't be recognized for this at least as justifiable sick leave if they stay home with children. Because sending kids to school when you don't have any other options has a lot of potentially negative sides. First, these children may in some way be exposed to the virus itself or infections if they have some interaction which makes sense why they should not go, and on the other hand, and Stigmatized if they have to be there one, two, three alone by school, and for them they may be taught or not in what way they will be taken care of. And it is good that there is an option and there must always be an option and it is the task of every responsible government to always leave options, to always prepare for all scenarios, but also this with all those announced measures that are absolutely welcome and timely, this would be something else that is not any revolution. It means that all those who can do the job effectively from home to admit it, that that's why they get their pay, that they do their job, that they reduce all possible exposure to contagion, regardless of what we still see in the world. And it doesn't have to be, and that's why all of this needs to be done, and it needs to be calmed heads, not to fall for provocations, not to spread panic, it's in the end line in these cases to be classified under certain non-infringing but also criminal acts. So let's still welcome these next two weeks, let's do everything in our power to make it possible for everyone and parents in particular to be as high-quality as possible, to provide quality care for their children as regards their education at home and staying at home as well as for the part we can never forget, to the better transition for both our economies and our economies and employees, so that they can continue to work as much economic activity as possible so that it can take place uninterruptedly. Do not panic, especially fall for anything that has not been verified from the verified source. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181064	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181065	Let's move on, esteemed colleague Stephen Curry the 4th debate on behalf of the HNS Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181066	Thank you. Dear President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Let him go first with thanks, with thanks to all those who work tirelessly for medical workers, people who lay shelves in shops, cashiers who put themselves at risk to make it work, of course for all those who work on education to continue uninterruptedly, that the less we have consequences. The education that is being conducted remotely thanks to what we've been doing for the past three years, mentors who have been working at school... life now exactly what they've been doing, what many have been making fun of with a mockery watching some teacher's education through a laptop in some virtual repository, etc., materials go, today it's done, it's made possible, it's a prerequisite. The provision of schools and schools for life and all those things that we've started reforming has just made it possible for today, among the few in Europe, to have an uninterrupted teaching, that our students, our children, are actually not losing anything in this extraordinary situation. And so much said and if I ever had one myself, and I had some doubts, of course, if we did good three years ago, now I'm sure that we are, even if what it cost was worth it among other things. What I want here also highlighted is to invite all local communities, regional, county, cities to act on their municipalities in three directions. In the direction of information by preventing panic through local messages, radio stations and locals where contact information should go in an hour at least twice, where, as a matter of fact, the opening of new lines is exactly that information so as not to be the number of the County Institute for Public Health and on-call Epidemiological Service number for all is known why it is called there, where all other data are, who, where, where information means very important. It also prevents the spread or restriction of the spread of the disease to be viewed in this direction with the creation of mobile teams that will deliver supplies with all the measures taken to protect our oldest to keep them as much as possible, not to go out, not to expose those most vulnerable, also to do disinfection points, to disinfect public spaces, it is all in the jurisdiction of local self-government and it can and the sea. Also when we talk about the consequences of introducing a moratorium, they don't delay but moratorium at all, all payments of the directors regarding local communities, so water supply, cleanliness, Unico, or whatever it is called in Osijek, so waste of garbage and all other utility fees to avoid just those of the oldest to go to the counters, to go to the post office, to go to the banks, to get out, because they most often don't have Internet banking the same in terms of prevention above all. So we inform the citizens to give them the opportunity to literally bomb them, speak. I passed through the city yesterday, closed down the city of Osijek all its public facilities, sports but at the high school playground there were so many people, so much as nothing happened. Which is in one hand and good, but some sports like basketball, etc., where having close physical contact are still not recommended and people need to be explained. If you're going to come running there alone somehow, in the open air it's good, but those sports, and even football where it has low physical contact, and we know that this virus is the most transmitted, not by air, but by contact where you touch the surface, that virus stays for 12 hours and more and she carries that hand, you scratch and it's over. So that's why we need more information. It's not enough to even close when people skip the fence, there were 100 people, children who are good that it's not panic, but it's important that we know how to carry it and what to do. And in this direction I call on all local and headquarters and county and cities to act in these three directions by informing with the protection of expansion with the protection of panic, by easing the consequences that all city premises are not being charged and that together we can endure more of these times that we need. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181067	The next Club of Representatives is that of the CNS on behalf of which the respected representative, Stjepan Curaj, will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181068	I thank the esteemed Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Today we will bring the first package of measures. I say first because the second wave most likely awaits us, second measures when we see what after 2 weeks. It will be. I hope we have a better picture, but we should hope for the best and be prepared for the worst. In line with that, I'm just going to do a quick repeat of what I was saying yesterday as future suggestions. First of all, we need to provide a moratorium for all loans to citizens and economies in which the state needs to take over the cost of inter-kalating interest. So for that period until the loans are paid off, the deadline is extended, not after these measures, that 3 wars suddenly come to you on payment or that I don't know how you're going to gut them for 3, 4, 5 months. Because even then, we're going to need help because it's not going to work out just like this when we say it's all good now, we're going to need one period, for God's sake, much faster than for some crisis that's caused in the economic and financial markets and that's just going to extend that manual. So whoever's supposed to get the loan back in 100 months, three months. doesn't pay, after three months. He'll still have to do it in 100 months. To this day 103, that is. The second part is certainly to closely follow the implementing measures and regulations to which these existing measures, which we will vote here today, will also be applied in what way. What kind of employers are these with difficulties? Practically today, at this point, it's 90 percent of employers. Because it's everybody, they feel this crisis, and they're gonna need to see how it's gonna be regulated. As for future measures, I suggested yesterday and we'll move on. The idea is not that we share money, we need help, we agree and we will support it, but generally, in the long term, we don't need to share money, but this country needs to step up, adapt the Public Procurement Act, and we will quickly activate all plans for investment reflections, renewals, for everything you don't need big project documentation, permission to wait for months, to immediately give work to our builders, processors, service activities, everything that is related to it, that the equipment of schools, offices, that roads that were meant to be in the next two years or years or this year to do so in the next 3 months. anyway, there is no traffic, etc., etc. In this way, we will hire and maintain jobs, do what we should have done in some of the next year, so maybe children will also get new benches, new chairs, new equipment in schools, in all public institutions, etc. It means making use of these vast billions. That we have something after this crisis, that we have left, not to divide 5 billion, and after the crisis, we have nothing. Eat, eat, eat, eat, eat, eat, eat, eat, eat, eat, eat, eat, eat, eat, 5 billion gone, people survived but we have nothing. This is how we let them continue to work, to feel good, with all precautions, and ultimately we have added value. What we would have to do in the next year or two eventually. And we suspend these public procurement laws not to wait 3 months, but to go without open negotiation procedures without prior publication as prescribed in the emergency situations to laugh, just to expand the situation a little bit. And if it could be done at prices as soon as possible, of course, that there would be no abuse, certainly not greater than for similar jobs over the last year that have been done. And we're moving, we're working, we're left with something. In this section, too, it should be reconsidered that labour ban measures do not apply to those construction equipment stores, that they must take all directions but that they must leave as a service, as a possibility that all those workers we have not prohibited from working, that they can work. It's tied to each other. And also consider that just when we talk about the construction sector, as a model of agricultural, or fisheries, it is also possible for construction engineers to use subsidized fuel or blue diesel for their machines. And in the end, from tomorrow, I'm glad to say that from tomorrow all those teachers who participate and work can work from home if the conditions are ensured to see the school at a distance, so they won't have to come to school, the principals will be in charge of it, and from tomorrow whoever has the conditions to do the job from home, teachers, teachers, will no longer have to come to school, so that measure, I believe, but tomorrow it will take effect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181069	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181070	Mr. Tomislav Sauch, the position of the Club of Representatives of the CNS.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181071	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I hope my colleague, I sincerely hope my colleague got confused if we got 19 million 2500 masks... Okay, because that would be, that would be even more expensive than the black market you'd like to talk about today. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] So, look, this is how my mother called me this morning and asked me a very simple question about where she could buy those one-time protective masks? A woman is 74 years old. She's a lung patient. My father is also 74 years old, two weeks or a week ago he came back from the Jordanian, so I would have to answer that if he had nowhere to buy protection masks. Now, did we fail, could something else be done? Maybe it is. Look because actually when they said there was nowhere to buy I was wrong, there's somewhere to buy, there is. On that line with the advertising pages, not to advertise them now. They can be ashamed. So these people, not people, it doesn't matter where they got those masks, whether they got them through Amazon or they got them here in Croatia while they could still get them. They sell masks, one-time surgical masks that cost about three weeks ago, a couple of limes, they're selling 20 kunas today. So one pack of 50 today costs 1,000 kuna, 1,000 kuna. Now if it's not a crime, if it's not war profit, I don't know what it is. And it doesn't go to my head what the state does, what the police do, what the State Inspectorate does when they get white under their nose every day on those websites selling needs, selling goods that are of the most vulnerable at the prices they cross, I don't know what the percentage of the increase is. So something that cost a few lipos three weeks ago now costs 20 kunas and no one's responded to it in days. A close person, we also talked to older people yesterday, told me, boasted that his wife had managed to get them for 550 kuna 50 pieces, 550 kuna. I thought I heard everything and then today I'm watching an ad on that one of the advertisers, says I'm selling 20 kuna protective masks. So it's not people, it's inhumans, it's criminals, it's war profiteers, and these people should be found, and these people should be prosecuted, and these people should be punished for teaching everyone else because this is not how people should behave at times like this. And the state is here to protect us all from predators like this, from petty thieves who use human trouble to make themselves rich, and that should end. Today, masks, what happens tomorrow? Water? The bottled water, the milk, the flour, the toilet paper? This is a very serious situation, it needs to be taken extremely, extremely seriously. And these masks that are now being purchased, if they're going to be released for sale, there's going to be some "smart entrepreneur" nice again, so that by chance someone doesn't get me, they're not entrepreneurs, they're criminals, I may have expressed myself foolishly. One such criminal will come, he'll buy 10 packages, and we'll buy our old one again, our weak ones will buy it 1,000, 1,500 kuna. I haven't been able to visit my father in days because I have three more masks and I've been saving them for an extraordinary situation. I'm delivering food at his door and I'll talk to him on the phone. Shame on them. And one thing that could be done very quickly, before it goes into some broader police or whatever action, please, I appeal to those who have executive powers, to these people you mentioned earlier, who make decisions have a responsibility. If you do anything else to get these advertisers to stop passing these ads, if anything else, let's get them to the bandits and let them stick around the neighborhood, so let's get those little paperies to sell 20 kunas to the mask, so some people have to rip it off. Well, when he sees them for the first time, he's gonna win a tambourine. This is inadmissible in one orderly normal country. Shame on them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181072	Now let's go to the debate of the Club of Representatives of the CNS, the esteemed colleague of Stjepan Curaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181073	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I want to express my gratitude to all those who work tirelessly, who work day and night, who sacrifice themselves and their families to get through this crisis as quickly as possible. Today here, and also in the media space, we can witness our own auctions, the auctions of those who know nothing, those who think they know, and you are always the most dangerous and those who even know something. Of course, you last in all of this in this cacophony, which should, as a matter of fact, come at least to terms and it's hard to know a tree from the woods. What are we supposed to do? Of course those who know and we here who have some experience are invited to actually propose, the government is the most responsible. One of the proposals I've already made is absolutely something that I don't understand, but certainly as far as my colleagues Bernardic and his proposal are concerned, we certainly don't go with the politics of all dead, all the statue where to go. It is necessary to clearly determine what priorities are, where the state must and should generate a job, generate offers, if those who can do so are capable of health care in terms of security and everything that goes, and not vice versa. Contraction to work on the market and let everyone go down like this. As for delays and moratories, I'm not here, but in the Parliament, I already said we should introduce a moratorium on loans to citizens and economics. Right now, banks don't know how to wait for 15.4. Some banks say they can postpone, but you have to pay interest. Of course, she still needs to put it all together, and we're just about to take action. Why not postpone the moratorium? Moratorium means pause, you pick up where you left off when you needed to. I also suggested that these inter-calary interest states take over on themselves, that there really is no such cost as it stands. According to the three plus three delay model, after three months, if it's all over and everything starts, these three months won't be crucial in that model to get rid of the 24 months, but if we move on then write off these first three months and each time three plus three. Because if this ends in three weeks, if dear God does, and then until one part of that first three months goes by, it won't be so crucial. Of course we can't say it selectively again, nobody has to pay anything, and that sounds nice, you don't have to pay any taxes, you don't have to pay VAT, you don't have to pay anybody, and all these people who do firemen, cops, health workers, people who will ensure normal functioning with them will pay dear God because we forget how the state works or the state needs to print money and then just go all the way to the devil. So we have to be responsible and we have to be smart. We have two confrontations, populism and solidarity. What's the difference? Popularism is coming here and saying what to do, solidarity is doing it and acting, so all those who shout need all of us at the minimum, no one should pay anyone anything to fire everyone. My people, the government has set up an account, I would ask the media to place it, that there is a fund for payment and victims of earthquakes in Zagreb and the fight against the coronary virus. So all those who want something, show it, pay it, give it as much as you can, will give it to those who can more regardless of whether they receive pay from the state or private sector or have any savings or whatever. There's a difference between pulsism and solidarity, come here, and the nicest thing to say to me is we're all going to do everything, we're great how to get solidarity, but not me, but someone else has to do it for me, because I'm not going to do mine. It's the people of my classical populism, and that's the least we need. One thing we've left out of these measures, and this way I want to draw attention to the government for these are associations. Associations from all these measures that I have read are not listed anywhere, the association we have praises of valuable, quality, good that work and public functions, which also have employees, who can now make no relief on these salaries because they are not simply listed and it would beg that they be included with crafts and craftsmen together with businesses as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181074	Thank you. We are now going to debate number 9 on behalf of HNS Representatives' Club, respected counterpart Milorad Batinic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181076	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues, above all thanks all to all of the civilian headquarters at the level of the Republic of Croatia, medical staff, as well as to all citizens who respect the measures prescribed and, of course, to all those who refrain from these measures or who are not correct in sticking to them. What I want to say on behalf of the club is about this introduction, first of all, about the economic and economic measures that are ahead of us this Friday should bring additional, complementary measures. What has been announced so far sounds good and I believe it will get some positive effects. But government measures won't be enough, that's what I'm afraid of. Equally so simply because I am able and as mayor on a daily basis to communicate with a wider circle of entrepreneurs not only from my environment but also from the wider and gain from them and certain concrete not only proposals but also the problems they face. Many of them are closed, they don't work, they don't have, they don't make income, and there, anyway, and from a local level as much as I have information leaders in some way, or they just cut out city charges, city taxes to them, they release them entirely. In those who operate hard, and the vast majority, to say almost everyone in these circumstances, are operating hard. They're having trouble transporting, cancelling certain customers, certain orders, supply problems, repromaterials, vegetation, asking what the situation is, big living, working week after week. It is not easy, however, but they do not surrender as much as positive, organised by those working on one shift have the capacity to respect the measures prescribed by civil protection headquarters organised work in two some even three shifts to minimise grouping and less exposure of workers. What is important except for these economic measures that are on track and retaining, above all existing jobs, is very important that through measures and headquarters we allow how smooth the work of all the owners who have the opportunity to work as smoothly as possible. This is a time that is more visible than ever before the state's dependence on the economy, the dependence of the citizens themselves on the economy, means jobs, and just as it may not at this point, but it will be in the coming period, especially in a period that has been estimated for several months and even up to a year the recovery time after this crisis is primarily the banking sector. There are certain intentions and some are being implemented, the CNB has relaxed the stock or reserve to commercial banks and has reduced by some 20 percent, but I have a feeling and information that banks continue to give up on intercal interest. These are just some details that the CNB will primarily have to communicate with commercial banks. What is important, I believe these measures will get some results, however it will also take not from, after 2.3 months but from month to month to month to follow the entrepreneurial economic flows. We must not forget, not to mention that we are all, all citizens of the Republic of Croatia and economics and states and the banking sector and we as citizens, employees that we are on the same ship, that we are on the same ship as colleagues and colleagues, and I fear that if they take the helm each and every one of us will not get far. What I would also like to mention is that we need as much red tape as possible in this period as possible, as little red tape as possible, certain decisions, because measures must be taken not from today to tomorrow, but today within half an hour or an hour. What would also request to headquarters do a great job, however we still have a case that a particular construction company has a concrete example of them, I can't finish a job of a few dozen million jobs on the island. We need to find a model, we need to find a way, we cannot respect measures, I respect the autonomy of certain headquarters, but we must not prevent entrepreneurs from functioning normally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181077	Thank you. 9th debate, esteemed colleague Stjepan Curaj on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the CNS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181079	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues and colleagues. There is a holiday weekend behind us that was accompanied by opening markets under certain conditions. Measures on market purchases, I'll just list some of the ones that have been betrayed. So at 7,000 squares maximum 200 customers, mandatory shoe disinfection, of course by hand at the entrance and exit, bulkheads so that customers cannot touch the products independently, the distance between customers and customers and sellers from 3 to 5 meters in the premises of all markets. I am sure, I speak for Osijek, but also most of Croatia that under these conditions we can already close all markets today. There's no way of respecting the distance from three to five meters, let's just kind of go between the sellers, that might be even more, but between the buyer and the seller, I just don't see it because I haven't seen a three-foot stick anywhere that someone's adding money to and handing over bags. I didn't see it anywhere. Why is that? I don't know. The bulkheads are also a great thing, and I think these things are good in general, but for me, it's a question of what they are when they're shopping in malls. I haven't been able to find them and I'd like someone to send it to me, some link that the Civilian Headquarters brought to the national store what measures it took to buy in the malls. Distance from 3 to 5 meters, building that can't be touched, disinfecting the shoes on the way in, I didn't see it. What's the difference? Markets are fraught when we talk about this in the open, shopping centres are closed, there are meterers, counters and they stick to it, but generally it can still be touched by products, chosen by products, etc., etc. There's a place like this where there's a couple of customers, and it works. So I'm afraid we're going somewhere too restrictive, and we've let it go somewhere. There's always a solution in the middle. I suggest that for markets and supermarkets to be made in terms of pre-packs that will be half a kilo, a kilo, 2, 3 kilos already packed that there is no need for someone to pick, break, touch each product puts itself in a bag, etc. something on the trail of this market building where you can't choose which tomatoes, peppers or whatever, but it works for you as well as at malls, that already there are bags where the sellers have repacked or I say by these measures we can immediately close all markets if we see that it doesn't go if there are conditions, conditions exist that virtually no one should have been even open for 3 to 5 meters apart is impossible to keep not only in the markets but also in supermarkets especially those and smaller ones who have 10 squares of space for.../incomprehensible/... What I've been saying and I just want to remind you these past few weeks is that we have to work intensively on both these control measures and what's going to be the day after. Which will be the day this thing stops, which will be the day they stop coming money from the country in which we will raise our economy and bring it back. Because it's safe that she fell, that's without further ado, but the question is what's gonna happen later. Especially since all those who are now using, who have hurried after these measures that are good and have helped are not allowed to fire these workers at least the same time as they used. So they'll have to find work for these workers, they'll have to get paid if I'm not wrong. One of the proposals that I made a few weeks ago was this kind of mini New Deal, that the state does not stop with investments, not only big ones, but also these investment maintenance, but it is precisely that it generates this job offer that will leave added value behind. Because today you give the worker 4,000 kuna that's thrown in terms of state revenue. The only way to get something back through consumption is when the Kuna leaves. But if you give the company a job to earn their salary and to keep something as added value, so we're talking about equipment, I see that HAC has given up the reconstruction of roads, highways, that's all to do. And that's where we have to go as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181080	It is now up to Mr. Stjepan Curaj, who will speak, to be the position of the Croatian People's Party, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181081	I thank the esteemed Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Yeah, I said something a few weeks ago, I'll do it again today. I don't think it's ever too bad to repeat anything again. In fact, all suggestions that can be considered are always well - meaning. In fact, I've taken them out several times for this and for those former speakers in previous places to actually come up with the best solution how to bridge this crisis, how to alleviate it as much as possible, how to help our citizens, and then actually also employers. And that was the first part of what everyone focused on in the first few weeks and he was supposed to be. The only thing I said that went a little bit into an inflation proposal to paraphrasise the forest is that we don't see a tree anymore, where I haven't heard a lot of suggestions, from where, from which side? A colleague of Lovrinović was now talking here about a currency swap that was signed the other day, which is not, could be signed that we are not in the European Course Mechanism, now I don't know if he's talking about international reserves or foreign reserves, so there are different things, we know that our kuna is more or less covered in the EUR's, so if it is, then we know how it works and what it actually brings us. Politics is now more important, I said a few weeks ago, that not only is the course kept but if it can be even stronger, stronger though it is illusory to expect it. Why? Because now exports and we don't have a strong rate, it hurts our exports, but, that is, a weak rate harms all of our citizens who have loans in the euro, the de fact that kuna weakens it, they have to pay their loans more if it is in addition to the currency clause they are raised in the euro. So now that we've already been exported and we don't have a risk of a fall in exports bigger than this. Now this is exactly what the mechanisms that allow us to do if we were in the European Course Mechanism, if we had the EUR we'd still be better, we could defend, we wouldn't have that risk, first and foremost we wouldn't, we can defend that course precisely with what happened. What's important and what I'm trying to say is that we have to think about what after these first measures, which after everything gives up, when so many things are normalized because the economy won't just normalize overnight. It has fallen a lot, but it is not the cause of the financial crisis, the economic crisis, but the security aspect that it has pulled behind it, it is expected that it will return much faster than those of the previous financial crisis, but we need to get there in advance. We know that 20% of our GDP came from tourism, it's illusory to expect, I don't know how much at all, not half as much, we have to make sure that we fill that offer with domestic demand in a way that we can encourage, in a way that we can watch how to connect the continental and marine Republic, of course we always have a security aspect. What other types of tourism can we offer to foreign guests if we allow them to enter the country at all, and we probably want to open the borders and how in general, and I have already said that several times already, to start that economy. Because my idea was also with a kind of mini New Deal where the state takes over the main function, but not when we talk about these big investments that are already going anyway than when we talk about a lot of small ones to one way and suspend certain provisions of the Public Procurement Act or to apply those in crisis situations and urgency so that we can go into a negotiating process without prior publication, that as much as possible of what is planned for us this year, in the following year, we go to work now. And then I don't agree that the HAC is suspending the restoration of its roads, because I just think it's a solution if, and now, today, tomorrow, if certain measures are taken to protect the backpacks who are doing this anyway, then it's better to pay them through extra budget users that they can run as much of what they need to do anyway than to give them money because when we give the money back, we're going to get it hard, especially if spending is the kind of people who don't have to spend it, we're just putting out the fire. If we give people a job, then the benefit is much bigger, and above all, we're left with added value. What we're going to have to spend money on in the next three years anyway. Why did I say roads? Because there isn't any tourism anyway, so it's not like you're going outside of Zagreb, there's no one left to drive three cars except for the truck. So maybe it should be a way to go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181082	Thank you. Thank you, too. Before we give the word to Mr. Vlaovic who has the last statement of view, we have a violation of Mr. Lovrinović's Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181083	Dear Vice President, Article 238, Col. Curray used his free speech to pollemize with me, you were obliged to warn him because I don't have the opportunity to answer to him right now. He's got no one to preach to, I know he's defending this government in front of the HNS, when I remember Dr. The dog who was, that party turned into something really desperate and please don't ever do that to anyone else again. You sing, you see, I do not preach to you, [[Intruder: Thank you, time.]] speak freely of what you think and do not deal with others. [[Intruder: But it's time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181084	Mr. Lovrinović, Mr. Lovrinović, you know I shouldn't have let her answer you, I let you, stick to at least the time and you give it to me, because it's going to turn into a controversy right now. You said here what you think, you're welcome, do you have a right to it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181085	Your Honored Vice President, you did not give notice to a colleague who had used the violation of the Rules of Procedure for a simple replica. I used my free speech exactly like that, free, unless you say right now that I can't say what I think, that's your attitude, I'll keep saying what I think. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181086	Just a moment to see what article 239 says, the MP will be given a warning if he acts contrary to article 238, which you think means 239,.../incomprehensible/... I was wrong not to give him a warning. Okay, let's move on, we won't be giving any more warnings today I think you all had the right to a stand, I did give you the right to a stand, thank you very much. It was more of a debate than anything else.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181087	The next statement of view is the esteemed representative of Stjepan Curaj on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the CNS.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181088	I thank the esteemed Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I just want to warn here about the implementation of these measures that we have voted in the past few weeks, concrete measures to help the grants, 3.250,00 kn for March and 4,000.00 kn, as we voted for April. In practice, it turns out that certain companies are being rejected. Companies that operate under one OIB, therefore one company, have no daughter companies and, in their activities, have a different set of exactly these activities, one of them is hospitality. In particular, we can talk about small companies, bakers who have 4 and by the way and a catering facility, so in the bakery for 8 people, they continue to work and make revenues, and 4 people who worked in a catering facility can't work. Or companies that are hundreds and hundreds of employees, thousands, who have hospitality as one part, part of their business and what they say about social nutrition and their employees, so they have 50, 100 employees in that segment of their business, and then they can't win the question because it's being seen as a company as a whole, not a segment of their business that the state has banned from working, even for its workers and for its own purposes because it's also banned because we diagnosed it as potential sources of infection. But we don't give them that possibility that there's nothing left to them but to these people sent to the street. And that's exactly what we wanted to avoid whether it was from 4 people in a small company or 54 of them in a larger one that they are one of the parts of the company's production system itself or the services they provide. That's how the information comes in, and that's what we need, if it's not legally envisaged, then we need to get into the change and supplement of the existing law, otherwise the meaning of the legislator and of us here who wanted to leave these people behind and not get fired. And that's why the measure. The second thing is to mention the moratorium that we've now voted on on the SDP proposal, something that I've already pulled out a lot of times for this speaker, here that we were before the earthquake, and then again and then down in the INA rooms is exactly the system to do it. This as it was suggested is quite populist, quite unspeakable and we couldn't quite support it because I don't think 12 months is good, that it's not good that everyone can do it, but I also think it's not good what it is today. The possibility in which it is actually a model that every other system, or in all other times, you had the right to gain it is not now, are now extraordinary measures. And especially in this law, there was nothing even mentioned in the signing of moratories, and they sent a public notary because of changes to the basic provisions of the contract, so they are paid in terms of both the principal and the sums and a few thousand kunas for the moratorium to be obtained, and then they beat up the regular interest. My initial proposal was for the state to enter this subsidisation of this kind of inter-calary interest, especially if we say that 12 months of practically not doing its cor business then we will have to have another law to save these same banks or what this is, I don't know in which way, so we need to see that it takes as much as it can bear, so, to free public note tariffs, or costs, that, if a certain interest is to be paid there, or half it or determine the maximum amount or subsidies, and that this applies to those who really have a reduction in income, and not at all. If anything subsidizes. Now that law, that's what we're looking for, and that's what I'm suggesting, it's not just 3 articles and say it's like that now, it needs to be done systematically and better. That's why we couldn't fully support, or we were somewhat abstentioned to this bill because we recognize the need, we recognize that this isn't the best solution right now, this was not a good enough solution, and we need to do this in a really good way to keep the stability of the financial system, but also ultimately, to get citizens really who are in need, that it's not, that now the moratorium turns out that if their system was a war, that is, the annuity of half the principal, half the interest, that instead of 4 thousand kunas are paying now 2 and then they go on as if nothing had happened. But those wars have to be put to the end of the payment plan, Stand still and possibly that kind of interkalare interest to be split and to have that state either subsidized or to find a model with banks, when you see how much it would be, to keep financial stability. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181089	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181090	The next club of representatives is that of the CNS in the name of which the respected representative, Stjepan Curaj, will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181091	I thank the esteemed Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. We've heard again in media space a few suggestions, objections, grudges, you for everything, practically. You for you economic situations, you for you measure, you for you epidemiological images, you for you measure the same, etc., etc. And now the last is tied to the educational state of the country, or the future of ours, above all, the seniors. And the nicest thing would be, I think a lot of our citizens would accept me saying here right now, if we said no graduation, no entrance exam, everyone can sign in whatever they want and as much as they want. Here, and that would be best, I think the public would be thrilled, everyone enrolls any college they want, just needs to send two papers, even online, don't even have to show up and everyone can study whatever they want. Also, just to lead, connect the parallel, let the state instead of four thousand kunas that 10, let no one have to pay swear taxes, in the end, each one be all they want. Let's cancel the VAT, why should we pay him now? Let's raise our salaries to those who work, let's not cut anyone's wages, and ultimately, I think we should get a second term final grade. Although, when we're giving everybody a free license... colleges, or no colleges, so irrelevant. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That would be ideal. I think we'd all be thrilled, which, by the way, would be the consequences of that. That doesn't matter. A few things, first of all, are said that if, if the situation allows, we can't say 17.5. and then say that it isn't but 28.5., but it's not 3.6, but it's 17.6. Who can know and who can say that? On what terms? Today's something, tomorrow, today we have 26 newly infected, tomorrow we'll have 138, the day after tomorrow 2. God forbid there's nothing going on. What conditions, will they be able to, in what way? At present, the graduation period is scheduled from June 8th to June 29th, in that period, to prepare themselves. Of course, students need to prepare. They don't need a date for them to start preparing, I think it's clear to everyone because they're getting ready not, when they knew, they didn't even know the date last year so some of them started to prepare because it's pretty much known, 5 months, how things were coming, etc. They've been preparing for years, at the very end of the line, all their education is preparing for it because it's the future. Of course, the prom is mentioned, the state is an exceptional anti-corruption instrument that enables us to evenly evaluate, equality according to all, equal terms and equal opportunities, or to show their knowledge under the same frameworks without thinking about what we're used to over a relationship. '91. A year, '92. There was no school, I was in Osijek, I was in War Osijek, I didn't go to school, I graduated fifth grade in '92. In two months of summer. In the 2nd summer months, I finished the 5th grade, which is extremely important, crucial in further education. Nothing stopped me from going through all the other classes with a great one later in my life, and a lot of my colleagues didn't feel the problem. These are extraordinary situations. And to say, to relate to one more thing, how people don't die of the crown but with the crown, what does that mean? This means that someone who has some chronic diseases, diabetes, hypertension, high pressure, etc., here's not dying of the crown but died of it. Well, people live for tens of years with these diseases. For decades, their whole lives, they've been taking therapy. And now say they didn't die because of this disease but because they had some chronic disease. Today people normally live with these chronic diseases and other, a series of other diseases. They work, they're not sick, they're not disabled, they work normally, and they say that then this crown doesn't die is really hard and don't let God experience it. So we have extraordinary measures and we follow the instructions and we do what needs to be done as soon as possible, then we'll have everything we need.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181092	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181093	We're going to a third debate right now. The club of representatives of the CNS esteemed colleague Stjepan Curaj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181094	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, last week we felt a small part of what happened to us more than a month ago, there are many more questions for the citizens, especially those who got red stickers, and of course I'm talking about the earthquake, about the earthquake that lasted 10 seconds, and it leaves the consequences that will last for decades and for some, unfortunately, the lives will be marked practically for the rest of their lives, and we have had fatal cases so that really one tragedy that needs to be systematically approached. There are a lot of issues with red stickers, how many subsidies there will be around the house, the building, whether they will be recognised and compensated for the costs of those who are already not, what he has done, what he has done, which has removed the dangers etc. I think that because of this, the ministry has joined the draft law immediately two weeks ago to answer all these questions, but not only to answer them, but to ensure sustainability and the possibility of implementation in line with the profession. So, the law in question that we expect, either this or the latest next week, should actually give answers to a lot of questions. Some of these issues that should be regulated are in fact precisely the programme of measures and activities to restore their content, to create, to create professional analytical bases for urban reconstruction, to restore buildings, to remove damaged buildings and buildings that are located in the historical unit, to build replacement family houses, to apply regulations, to change and to apply regulations in the area of spatial planning, to pay for monetary aid for renovations precisely what citizens are most interested in, to build precisely, to provide housing for people affected by earthquakes, money for temporary protection of buildings and chimneys, to support the purchase of condensation boilers, otherwise we have this problem and independent of this earthquake, etc., so to adopt intervention measures. As a rule, there are many issues that need to be systematically settled, which the profession should be determined, in which way and in the end line in which it will be financed. So there are conversations with the European Commission, the World Bank, if and in any way to close the financial structure because the easiest way to talk is to talk, let's help, and when we go we can't play with these things, we can't leave people alone, we can't understand this. It is one complex law and what is most important in everything that they are, that they are and are involved in the making of this law, all the actors that are needed, so above all, the profession of all these issues, there are even more of them, of course, to which this law should be determined. So no overnight solution can help us here, and we know that every day matters to people and uncertainty is important. One of those things is certainly thinking when I was talking about sustainability as well as what happened afterwards. We'll build temporary accommodations. What this law provides for is to go into construction immediately, and it collects or obtains a building permit to have as little paperwork as possible, so this must be regulated legally. First of all, the idea is that these temporary accommodations are later used as dormitories, meaning one multifunctionality, actually having that added value, etc., etc. I think the most important thing is for people to get answers to these main questions as soon as possible and to start solving situations for which some are already unsustainable. It can't be done overnight, anyone who says it could have already been almost three weeks ago, lies if the way is complex is the way it has to be sustainable, is the way it has to be closed, with a closed financial structure, we can't promise and talk to people, and we don't know where it's going to go, how, how someone's going to get a permit, how they're going to build, how they're going to subsidize, by which criteria etc., etc., then we'd have a classic El Dorado, and it would turn into an ordinary grab, something like that we can see now in the parking lots of some and warehouses of the City of Zagreb. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181095	Now it's the club of representatives of the HNS and colleagues of Stjepan Curaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181096	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues and colleagues, before these current topics allow me to congratulate both on behalf of the club and on my personal behalf the International Sisterhood Day which is marked on this day taken as the day or birthday of the person Florence Nightingale who actually founded the first school for the education of nurses in England. I think we're talking about, and thank you and everything that's already become some kind of nuanced phrase that we're using so easily. More important is what we show, what is more important is what something under 40,000 nurses or technicians in Croatia are doing, how it works, in which conditions are not ideal. And our number is somewhere with a hell of a 140 technicians and sisters at 100,000 inhabitants making us malts not least in Europe, and there's something that's over, that we have to think about. The terms, the number and the way they work, and so she shows our gratitude, and especially now in these times I think it's pointless to talk. So once again, I congratulate everyone this day who I think is special to many things, especially in which situation it is marked and which is why we need to mark it more, but also act. As far as the current political situation is concerned, we see that here they are behind the pay phone that the elections, the mention of elections, the announcement of elections, the light motive for almost every advocate who spoke, almost every political party that is and normal is that we here account for citizens, we are elected by citizens and we are working in the interest or at least we should work in the interests of the same citizens. And that's actually the essence of election issues or not, citizens' interests, the safety of citizens. If the situation were such that the ruling majority said that for the sake of security they did not want to hold elections in the election year, I think they would be raised here on their backs as democracy chokes and usurped power. We'd have a replacement thesis. You can organize the right of citizens in one way or another, I think Mr. Capak said a vote at a distance, not that they would go to vote, but anyway. Now I'm also interested in how there will be special CIA teams in suitors who will take and count these votes and how it will be organised, means double the work of election committees, more people, who's trained to do it. These are serious things we need to think about before we go into this. But when I say let's keep going and until the situation is good to do the election and all of this to the government, I think tomorrow we'll get headlines on the anti-constitutional and constitutional lawsuits, etc. Then what exactly is the question? As far as I can see, it's not a question of whether to hold elections or not, but only when. Whether at either the 7th or the 9th month or the 10th, we are here by law and by law, the Constitution ends on the 16th of this year. After that, constitutionals go, so we don't do anything, so we don't make any constitutional decisions to hold elections for 30 to 60 days. Is it gonna get better then? No one knows. Is it going better now? It's going. Is power going to hold elections? Nobody knows that yet, but we need to be prepared. We should have legitimacy or I guess we should have and say no, we won't go to the election let this government continue to rule as long as it has to. Well, I don't think we'd be able to get anything out of our ears that we could talk about. And then I rip this up, don't make choices when it doesn't suit us, and that's not good either. The only good situation is that if you really are healthy and can organize and allow health reasons, whether the Parliament is dissolved or not, we are still parliamentary representatives regardless of what we have disbanded. We can go back and make decisions again, yes. So just disbanding the law doesn't mean the necessity to choose if something changes some situation won't be held. But I also can't hold elections in three days is we now if we say here we see now in the next three weeks everything will be fine. This situation requires new legitimacy, and at least as far as the HNS is concerned, it is important to get here as soon as possible, to settle things, of course, if the conditions are met. And that is whether the parliament will disband or does not necessarily mean that elections will be held. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181097	Let's move on. Mr. Stjepan Curaj will present the position of the CNS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181098	I thank the esteemed Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Since it's more or less over in every debate, which by the day points, which here at the pay phone with a few exceptions is being apostrophe that the upcoming elections because of course we are in the election year, even if it weren't so it wouldn't be any different. As for the CNS, we've said our position and I'm going to take it here and repeat it again. So, elections that if you get health conditions for that. The disbandment of parliaments does not necessarily need to be immediately connected and automation means elections are going because the period is a minimum of 30 days from the day of the break-up when elections can only be called by means of the first week, and then you have practically 4 weeks after that 30 days to choose, or the president chooses by his decision. If something were to happen in those 30 days and if it weren't for the positive opinions of experts then the elections would not be held, because no one has the right to endanger our citizens for such reasons. And the Constitution also provides for such a situation, and that is why we here all still have our mandates so that we can re-invocate and decide on matters of importance until a new assembly is established. So disbanding the assembly does not necessarily mean, but most likely it should automatically hold elections in these situations. The elections, therefore, this is an election year, I have not seen here a single proposal to postpone an absolute election for a year, let's just say for these security reasons, but only if it suits anyone whether they're in the 7th month or in the 9th. The right of every ruling majority was to decide on the elections, I said yesterday, and so far I have not recorded in Croatia's history that it was going to the constitutional deadline for disbanding the parliament by force of law, but until now, the assembly is always disbanding itself. Two months, three months, we got 16. The 10th deadline when we were disbanded by law means that by the law's order and the constitution, the elections would be from 17.11. to 1612. But so far, I don't remember it ever being recorded. So that's where we're talking about the term best suited. Why do we think we need it as soon as possible? It's because citizens and the situation we've found ourselves in don't have time to wait. This government, again, I say that regular circumstances are neither to make nor to accidentally consider any decision on borrowing in the next 10, 5 years, for billions of years, it would be highly respected that the government spends everything it can and leaves desolation for those who come. But now you should actually, if I understand correctly, say don't be in debt, don't make any decisions or wait if it might be better for us to be choices, it doesn't really work out, and in the end line, it's the right of most people to disband as it is so far when they think it's best. So, if the two of us choose, then there's really no choice and they always have to be citizens to make certain decisions as soon as possible. Certain decisions, as we have the Rehabilitation Act, our goal is certainly not to wait and act immediately for people who are already without their homes, they can't wait for the law, nor the budget of the 10th and 10th billion, nor the implementing signatures, etc., because it can't go overnight, whoever says otherwise, because you can't decide who you're going to decide which way, who's going to finance, from which resources, as far as possible, can't even get over the night, so it's important that people get what they can do, and that's exactly what they're doing, to make sure that the chimneys are fixed, so that the van heaters can't be used for heating for sanitary water, to provide them with the rent that goes or to pay them rent apartments if they don't have their roof over their heads and what they't have to do this week anyway, I hope to bring in order to provide the funds for designing the renovations. Because no matter what we pass the law and secure the 10's and 10's billions again without designing, no project, no ways, no work, no rules, nothing can be done tomorrow. These are our priorities, and it has to be. When all this is done, and I believe it will, and we have opened an item in the budget, and I specifically asked the amendment to re-apply then we can just welcome the elections and the new government that will be in charge and find the funding model. A little around these renewal laws, yesterday I listen to a colleague of Vardo here and says he will not support the law, at the same time, Bandic says he will not vote in favour of disbanding the parliament unless the law is passed which they de facto will not support. So that's what I'm left with vaguely, probably someone there will be rectified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181099	Thank you very much. And now it's Mr. Stjepan Curaj who will be the position of the Club of Representatives of the CNS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181101	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues now something completely different, something unrelated to the election, something that I think is actually a crown of years of effort and actually a priority that we set three years ago by entering this government. Since the next school year, all students in class will be able to choose information as an election subject. But to calm my colleagues up on the right, that doesn't mean they'll be either-or, but they'll be able to have both religious science and information. That's the other pair of gloves. So, for the teaching of information, 70 hours are scheduled for teaching, classes per year. For this purpose, more than 15 million kunas of equipment were provided, additional equipment of 1.137 district schools because we should say that the earlier investments each, meaning parent schools, primary schools, all primary schools received funds to equip one IT classroom. It has now spread so that all children in all schools and districts would have both the equipment and the possibility of attending information as an election subject. I think it's on the trail, especially considering now he's teaching or teaching at a distance that's also not possible that certain measures and steps have not been taken in the past, in the past few years of changing the very possibilities of the curricula that he predicts, equipment, all of that, "schools for life" where in fact all the same models, classrooms of virtual then lecturers, actually mentors have taken over and carried this program. So we're here somewhere actually in front of many of them colleagues in Europe. I think I just need to remind myself of where we are in this context, in fact, where the ministry has also created a joint project of the Institute, with the Institute for Youth Development and Carnet Promicro, where about 45,000 microaccounts have been secured precisely with the aim of raising digital literacy in various teaching subjects and extracurricular activities. We already know that we have introduced mandatory information in 5 and 6 classes of all primary schools and also, more recent curricula of information, remember those inscriptions that were done in textbooks that were prescribed 15-20 years ago, which was incomprehensible in terms of development and modernisation, above all, informatics. So, first of all, when we look at this curricula reform, with the realisation itself, at school equipment, it's already over 36 million kuna. So, this is something that's been waiting for us since next year, this is something that, again, is electoral, means an additional electoral item for our youngest, where they can, that schools will get equipment and that it will be possible to implement at all levels, including regional schools for which additional funds have been allocated, which is extremely proud and which is an extraordinary step towards this transformation towards digital society, developing digital literacy. Of course, and smart use of all digital content because there is the greatest danger because many children use digital content, surf, and the safety of children on the Internet is particularly important on the Internet. And they should, as they say, learn to use that technology in development, in education, and tomorrow at work. And that's what happened today and today's opportunity, the situation with, not just us in Croatia, to be honest, but in the world, with the virus, where we learned a lot, we were forced to work both from home and use all the digital tools and things work. And then when someone tells me you can't, it's that old way of letting go of everything the way it was, it doesn't cloud the water. You can, you need to, and we need to move on on to this example to digitize our administration, and everything we've introduced now needs to be kept and taken a step further. And that's where we'll get the funds to raise our salaries to all civil servants because it's just natural drains and the best quality will stay and they'll be able to have even more pay in the retailes even in a reduced volume because it won't take so many people because someone can't tell me that we need the same number of systems today in this digital society 20 and 30 years ago. And unfortunately, it's always like that with us. And there's always over-inflatation, and we know why. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181102	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181103	The next club of representatives will be the HNS on behalf of which the respected representative, Stjepan Curaj, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181104	Thank you, dear Vice President. It's hard to be next now. All right. I wanted to say something personal to begin with, but I can't take this impression of performance before, but we're going to show one other policy quite different from that one. And that's what we've been hoping to show for these three years. Yeah, the HNS made it unimaginable, it's true. The second most difficult day of my life after my father's death was 9.6.7 years when I sat here for the first time or not for the first time, but for the first time in this assembly and from my colleague even the predecessors I suffered insults that I came out of every little bit and I don't know how to cry out of pain. Insults that didn't make sense of construction, but more than one scavenger over all that so-called. HNS voters who were then assumed to be gone. And yes, that decision was difficult, that decision questioned the party's further future and then wondered if it was worth it. I'll tell you responsible here, yeah, it was worth it and I'd do it again. For what? When we remove the stabilisation factor saving tens of thousands of jobs, Agrokor, the roll-up credit that is possible and further, the prevention of new elections, the current marginal right groups that had dozens of percentages at the time, the inability to work, the paralysis of all that was worth it because of the reform of education 2.5 billion kunas, worth 90% of European funds, because of the new Law on textbooks, easier textbooks, more digital content, information election classes required in the 5th and 6th basic and later, the reforms of vocational education, also funded by the European funds of billions of kunas, means our students of secondary schools will now, in the next few years, work on the most modern curriculas and the very conditions, increased the price of student training, investment in science of 2.5 billion kuna, the same from European funds, anti-corruption measures, the verification of this year's implementation of this year's budget is now in terms and the final year's budget, the final year's implementation of the budget, and the budget of the final year's budget. We introduced our initiative to fiscal balance those tax reforms so that our municipalities would first of all get that money, on our proposal, finance the resolution of the slide, the amendment on the financing of the water economy, we solved the problem permanently. Our tax proposals disbursement of salaries, even by my small contribution to VAT reduction proposals to basic supplies such as vegetables, meat, fish, children's supplies etc. II. The pension column I'm leaving behind, the proposal that now that you're retired you can raise 15% and we've strengthened it, we've introduced a new formula. Also as far as the Ministry of Construction is concerned, there are still subsidized housing loans of POS apartments, 50,000 families remain in Croatia as a demographic measure, with a project of energy renewal of more than 1400 hospitals, kindergartens, halls, public buildings, 17,000 households in buildings, and now families houses from their own resources are going to make it as easy. Yes, it was worth, e-license projects, faster, simpler and cheaper system of evidence, the introduction of... administrations etc., etc., protected tenants. When you ask me about the renewal law, we're done, we hand it over, and I would personally like this mandate to be him and voted by the ones who made it. Unfortunately, we could no longer influence this and perhaps leave another government with billions and billions of debts, especially on the run. But I personally wish we had done it, maybe we should have, but let it go to the soul of the others. And to some, it may be incomprehensible to colleagues that it's not the only policy-making goal to be in the Parliament, and if all of this means that we've been hit on the ratings, it's worth it. And all we're going to say is that we're also going to defend as well as all of this and we're not going to hesitate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181105	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181106	Mr. Curaj, go ahead, which represents the position of the Club of Representatives of the CNS.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181107	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, as Monty Python would say, "and now something completely different". In fact, I'm going to talk here 14 times about one proposal, one initiative that I've directed both to the previous and current minister of administration, and that's actually the government as a whole. And I want to believe that no matter how many times I've repeated this, it may not be for this mandate, but for future mandates, that someone will regain consciousness about what's normal somewhere, established practice at all something that doesn't differ and raises no question at all. It is about receiving or hiring in public or public service. The way is what is the core and the basis of quality, the way of receiving and only receiving is the basis and the core of the quality of the work of the state administration, I will say it in one broad term and think that it would be actually effective and therefore economical because it is a service for citizens and citizens to get that service at the best possible level at the lowest possible unit of time, the most qualitative without any affection or what the Latina would say to the son of Ira et studio without any conveniences, acquaintances, anything else, as we are used to even though we have progressed far now, I must admit that, or 20, 30 years ago. But still, as long as the state is the most desirable employer of the local self-government unit, state-owned companies, public enterprises, the state as a whole, we have a lot of public pressure. And it's not good that the state is the most desirable employer, it tells us a lot about the economy, but it's known as, you can only go out there with death or I don't know what else, even though it's hard to get out of the state service, of course by your own free will. And that's why exactly the way the reception is one of the two basic elements of the administration's reform. First, who gets hired, and then how do those who are inside, how do they work and how do they evaluate and how do they do their job. That second part is much harder, but it's not indecisive, but this first part is easier, but it gives hope, gives perspective, gives an indicator in which direction we see and want. And you don't need to invent hot water, I didn't make it up. We have an EPSO system in the European Commission that performs evaluations, which performs tests that performs a single ranking list according to the percentage of solving certain tests according to the particular area you apply for, is that right, is that economy, are languages, are technically certain specific directions, etc., the same thing is here. Let's start on a pilot project, move slowly and do it wider and wider so that simply when a single ranking list is being conducted by the external body, and we already have an external education evaluation agency that conducts the state's graduation, then, along with the state's graduation, let's have state-run tests to work in the state service, and then units of local and regional self-government will get hooked up to it and will be particularly exposed to great pressure and as it ranks there, people call for oral talks. It's not over, but then it doesn't matter if you're among the top ten, you're someone's uncle, nephew, son, party member. No, you're on an independent legal basis as a state prom, so there's no talk about any manipulations, showed your knowledge, showed your expertise, and got the opportunity to be invited to another conversation. So let the first ten be called, however, to determine by talking about who this person is. And in this way we will remove any suspicions, give him perspective, no more connections, no more political-like, no more misdemeanors, no more doubts like this, or if we can't discriminate anyone because he's something or he's a member of something or something, God forbid, but too many times it's just a coincidence that it's said or too many times it happens to be unfortunate. But I don't want to believe it, I want to believe that we can go that way. It's not any space shuttle, nothing revolutionary, it's something that citizens expect from us, it's something that raises hope and faith in institutions, it's something that I believe we'll have to do absolutely over the next year if we keep to ourselves, if we stick to the goals of our government and the state itself being efficient, economical and at the service of our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181108	Thank you very much. Go get better, eat something, get some vitamins B6 and B12, Dr. Mrsic B12 more and see you at 3:30. MEETING IN 14.39 A.M.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181109	We're going to debate number 8, the club of representatives of the CNS, the esteemed colleague of Christmas Macar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181110	Thank you very much, Your Honor. My colleagues and colleagues, I never thought I'd be here at the assembly talking about this subject. For us at the HNS, it doesn't make any difference for me either, and we don't share people on a national basis, or for better skin, the definition for us is all equal and so is for me, but we need to respect the laws, and we all have the same rights and the same obligations. To the frequent remarks of their neighbours, relatives, acquaintances of uncertainty and harassment by individuals of the Roma national minority who have recently moved to the villages of our region, I would answer that these are individual cases, that they need to be understood, that they need help. And I really think they need help. And recently, in my family, I felt what uncertainty meant. I didn't go public with that data until now, but last week, the press contacted me to check some facts and since I confirmed it to them, so I'm going to bring it out here. I was at Christmas Eve at my mother's house when she was 82 years old, and the robbers came, and they robbed her, and they beat her up, and she ended up in the hospital motionless. It has been determined by the police that there are individuals of the Roma national minority who have recently moved and who have already recorded a number of criminal and criminal offences. I don't want to generalise and say that the Roma national minority is problematic, but unfortunately, a large part of the individuals are. And it really happened that our locals don't dare go out into the streets, that they're not safe in their homes, they're no longer the priority infrastructure projects, how to improve life, but the main problem is security in their own home. And we should finally start implementing the laws because the laws apply to everyone, it's true that we have too few police officers, that we have too few social workers, but when they do their job, the judiciary should do theirs, not often schedule. They need to start from children who are hardly neglected in such families, walk alone on the street until late in the night, are forced to beg, are visible traumas and are seen daily in their homes, where fights, many alcohols are present, and unfortunately many of them do not even finish primary schooling, are often left out of school and leave elementary school half-writers. Children should be raised, and if children neglect themselves, they should not remain in such families. Regardless of the ordinary law, it should not happen that girls are 13, 14. They're having a baby. It's all a big child neglect. It would be good if high school had become mandatory anyway, we had compulsory, free students, we had free transportation, so maybe those kids would finish their education and get a better job, which is normal because it would be a professional workforce. So we ask nothing but that the same laws apply to all regardless of whether they are Croats, whether they are members of a particular national minority. At this point, I believe that by increasing the number of police patrols themselves, it would help at least a little increase in security, so I ask the minister to increase the number of police officers in the PP Ludbreg and thus help the locals of this region to start living normally.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181111	The next club representative is the HNS on behalf of whom the respected representative, Stjepan Curaj, will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181112	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I'll take advantage of this, an opportunity just to remind myself of something that I've spoken countless times from this pay phone about certain proposals of the legal, initiative that I've been up to in the last year. The first is related to the introduction of a single employment system for the state service through a single competition and a single ranking list to be implemented by the Agency for the External Evaluation of Education. Something like the EPSOS Employment System in the EU Commission to guarantee impartiality, which would guarantee quality, which would guarantee our citizens' ability to come to the desired career in the state service, which is unfortunately today the first choice of most of our fellow citizens due to a likely economy that is not yet strong enough to overcome all the benefits it carries. Another initiative that I mentioned here the other day, in fact, in the debate yesterday, is to legally amend several laws that would ensure or guarantee the installation of carbon monoxide detectors into all households where there is a consumption that has internal combustion, specifically, is most often about gas boilers, a van of water heaters on the load of distributors and suppliers. That they are prescribed that as one of those articles guaranteeing the security of supply and consumption to end-users to introduce this as an obligation for the safety of our citizens because 30 people suffer annually, not a small number and fatal from the inhaling of carbon monoxide or CO. And we've had countless times in the media and that sad news. With this we get a detector that would alarm immediately at the minimum amount of carbon monoxide in the room and people would know, I believe have a higher dose and safety, and thus save countless lives. That's something I'm expecting. The third part, and by which I am also passing what I would say, from words to actions, namely, after these presentations, I will refer each of these initiatives to one such legislative proposal, and the third proposal may be the most banal of the first, and the word is a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Electronic Media, a proposal that I have made today, which I have sent to the culture minister, not to the parliamentary procedure, but to the minister that, if they are working on the same amendments to integrate it into their proposals, if, of course, they do not report, they do not respond, then I will refer it to the parliamentary procedure. In fact, it's very simple, it's something like this, I say, once again, it may sound banal, but not something that every citizen, I'm sure they've met, whether they know it or not. Whether you're aware of it or not. And this is about broadcasting in audiovisual commercial communication, first of all, let's say, when we talk about television, when you have certain information shows or any other and then you have that end of the program, the yingle that's usually 30 to 40, and even 50% stronger in volume than the regular program. And also, commercial advertising program. That's it. So you have a set volume level on your receiver to one, so step up to hear what's being said on some shows, on information shows, and then at some point there's an end to the program and then you hear a duo duo so nice that your neighbor hears you watch that diary or watch that show and then there's commercials that are louder and then they're coming back, then you're shushing, faster-better because someone in the house says turn down that TV, etc. Then maybe there's a fight, and then you turn it down and then the program starts and then you don't hear again. Well, you don't know you've been deafer, so you're stepping up and so, unfortunately, many of our fellow citizens, I'm sure the team met and that's something I didn't just see right now, so I'm going to make something up. This is something that exists in countries like Italy and the United States where it is precisely positive regulations limited to the volume of audio-visual commercial communication compared to the rest of the programme. So, it can be, let's make a proposal legal is 5% maximum deviation and I believe, here's that, if nothing else, it will bring less arguments into our homes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181113	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181114	And the final statement of views on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the CNS fellow Stjepan Curaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181115	Thank you, Vice President. I will, as I said and on Friday, repeat clearly that the more that might get into your ear, the more like a proposal, the initiative I've been making here for the past year. Just to be boring to myself like that, and hopefully to get as far away from it as possible. And to say right here that it has its own, its results, and that I'm somewhat in that least part of it, something I've done. The first part I have already proposed for a year is the introduction of a single employment system into the state service, I hope also in the public sector through a single competition, a single ranking list, by example, not some imaginary hot water now proposed here, but how it works for the European Commission. You have an external body, sometimes it can be our Agency for external evaluation of education that conducts the state's graduation in the same way, with the same scruples, with the same seriousness and in the ultimate line of criminal provisions for any malversion. It conducts tests for certain areas of employment in the state administration and that, on the basis of these tests, a single ranking list is formed based on certain professions which then these same candidates appear in an open competition and are invited to discuss. I think it's clear to everyone now, it should be clear what that means, which is impartiality, which is the possibility that the most qualified people who showed the most knowledge come up with those oral interviews, and then let's choose the first 5 who applied or 10 who were the lists were on 101 or 781, mostly who applied, for which particular job, in which particular place. Then it wouldn't matter any more if those people were someone's cousins, godfathers, friends, God forbid partying or anything else. Knowledge, competence and a unique ranking list. That's something to go on. The second part, the second part, which I have set on the current clock and presented as an initiative by the Minister, is the mandatory installation of carbon monoxide detectors in households, especially those heated on a gas boiler, of course, would be desirable for all types of heating with internal combustion where this gas is as a potential byproduct, on the load of distributors and gas energy suppliers or natural gas. I don't have to mention what it means for the safety of citizens, according to some data I've been able to get, almost 30-year-olds are poisoned by carbon monoxide, not a small number of these poisonings end with death. We had a situation like this last year, and I think it's in accordance with the gas market law where we owe them, where the suppliers... the obligation to deliver and carry out their work in the safest possible way and to achieve the safety of end-users or citizens. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think it's something that citizens shouldn't be costing, shouldn't be costing, thus increasing security and absolutely protecting every life that is. And the third thing I said and I'm glad that Friday I got confirmation from the Ministry of Culture that my draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on Electronic Media, which I noticed, did not exist, and in everyday life there is a situation where we have parts of the television programme, which refers to radios that are much or much louder than the regular program, the rest, specifically about advertising or those breaking yingles between certain segments of the programme. So pay attention, I believe that the citizens have already noticed that, when they watch a particular programme, the most news, they step up to hear what is said and at one point start commercials, the yingles start up to 30, 40% louder than the rest of the program. Of course the neighbor also hears what is seen and heard here, to get a commercial and to hear those in other rooms and commercials and above all the yinglows, and I think it's a practice that should be banned, to limit it to a minimum. It's also, something that didn't just come out of the blue to me now, of course I was aware that it was happening, but first of all, it was Italy, it was in America, and I think it was something for the protection of both consumers and citizens themselves, and I'm glad that I put this, this proposal from this pay phone, sent it to the ministry, and they decided to incorporate it into their amendments and additions to the law and that it would live. So I say, I continue with these proposals and hope for the same outcome. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181116	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181117	The 12th debate of the Club of HNS Representatives, a respected colleague, Stjepan Curaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181118	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I wish, here we are now in February on time to warn, announce, whatever this is called something that is inevitable, something that if history can teach us something is certainly a problem in summer months. Namely, I am talking about something specific to the end of where I come from, for Osijek, Osijek-Baranja County, but also other counties in Croatia such as Međimurska etc. It's a mosquito plague. This may seem like the first trivial, but believe me, it's all but trivial. This is also a health problem when we say that mosquitoes and carriers of certain viruses, we have not so long ago and those great fears for the Zika virus, this is an economic problem when we talk about the consequences that this has on tourism, especially continental tourism that we all so warmly support, we say that we need to develop and boast that there are excellent indicators, especially here in Osijek-Baranja County. We can't talk about some continental tourism when you go out, so you have a 100-thousand mallet, I'm a little out of line, but it's not far. And it is economical as well as livestock production, which is especially when I talk about Osijek-Baranja County again, one of the largest producers and agricultural totals as a county, especially livestock. And we have the eternal problem of fiscal capacity units of local self-government because other than the city of Osijek, none can quite measure or allocate funds for any treatment of mosquitoes, and we know that aircraft treatment and it was last year and it showed a great sigh, a big problem, waiting to just get rid of itself and eventually the state had to intervene again and the county remembered to engage, so let's not wait when it's late. Let's try to think now, try to prevent as much as we do in everything, and something that becomes a health, economic problem and, of course, reduces the quality of life for the citizens. I don't believe that any citizen in Croatia should be a low-level citizen and put it that way, and that's up there. Because I said that here before I don't know how many, a year and a few days ago when I've been putting up with the amendment for such a problem, to the budget of 2019, so in 2018, I'd see how that would solve for a row of mosquitoes going on in a city or area, a county at sea. That would be a national problem. I'm sure you'd say life would put on it. That in one Dubrovnik, even Zadar, there is something like that, such an ascension appears. Well, that would put the whole country on its feet. I do not want to think that we citizens of the second order, less valuable, less important just because we are in the east of Croatia, just because we are less developed, only because perhaps demographic trends do not benefit us etc., etc. That's not what I mean, I don't think it's supposed to be like that, and I don't really believe it is, but let's not wait till it's too late. Let's think today about what measures, how, what funding, how it's going to be prevened and treated tomorrow. Because I'm saying, except for the city of Osijek, which is constantly investing in it every year, it's not enough when we talk about Kopački rit, when we're talking about powerful surfaces, you can't just limit yourself to the administrative area of the city, some treatment... or any other if we know my mosquitoes can fly, and 50 kilometers may be along the wind, but certainly 20-and-a-half miles, that's the least problem, so that's the zone of coverage. And yet I say so insignificantly because we must think about every part of our country. So this is why I want to draw attention to the new Minister of Health, is this primarily a health problem, but in all of us, in cooperation with all units of local self-government and county and the city and other municipalities and the Government of the Republic of Croatia to bring strategy, plan resources, to immediately know when, what part of which will be provided, and not to wait for the number of stings to be unimaginable, intolerable and to start a strike. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181119	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181120	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the CNS will now speak the esteemed representative of Stjepan Curaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181121	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I will take this opportunity to remind and repeat, point out, propose initiatives and initiatives that I have been proposing here for many months and even more than a year. Some, what I can say are accepted, incorporated into legal proposals. Today, not only by my humble court, but by the court of citizenship and by what we can see from the effects are greatly welcomed and used above all when we talk about the possibility of withdrawing part of capitalised savings from the second pillar when leaving the two-stage pension of those 15% that I have proposed, which we have managed to agree and integrate into the law and now the large 90% of citizens decide practically and over 80% for that amount. So you can. You need to be persistent and have good associates anyway. The second part of the proposal was already launched yesterday in a public debate related to an uncontrollable... program on electronic media when it comes to advertising and those breaking Jingles in order to gain more attention from viewers, listeners to exactly the advertising or advertising of the programme itself. So it is an unfavourable or not good practice that is not intended to protect consumers. The Ministry of Culture has accepted my legal proposal and it is in public debate. What I will continue to insist on is, above all, when we talk about the security of our citizens especially in months while heating it up and I will also announce an amendment and a proposal to amend and supplement the gas market law to prescribe mandatory installation of carbon monoxide detectors in all households where there is a gas consumption or a concrete gas boiler that can release CO on the burden of distributed distributors and suppliers. Article 5 of the same law provides that the aim is to ensure the safe delivery and use of natural gas, and that is something that is in line with existing standards, and that is something we should have done long ago because I don't know how many people have died from carbon monoxide poisoning so far, and yearly in research, I found information that almost 30 poisonings are in one year. So one life is already if it's saved it's a huge thing and it doesn't have a price, and I don't think that given the game of money that comes from distributors and operators here or the supplier here, it's something that's the minimum that you need if you need to and take from them some, but for the safety of the citizens there doesn't have that price. So I'm announcing this way that I'm also going to guide it in accordance with the initiative that I put on the current clock to the forward ministry, and I hope as soon as possible to integrate that idea or already some form of this idea just with the main and clear goal of getting our citizens a free model, so now if they want to invest in some advanced ones and in the research, I've seen that they have those who can text, or on their cell phone, those who can immediately dig up the gas if they detect so automatically. Whatever it is, safety must be first, especially as we go later, the older those boilers are and the less they are maintained. And I would still take advantage of the opportunity and remind myself once and for all of the same proposal and it is related to the cancer wound of our society of all citizens who recognized it and it is related to employment in the public sector to remove any doubts once and for all, we will create a system that will be based on an independent body as with a state graduate, the Agency for the Evaluation of Higher Education Single Competition, Tests, a single ranking list by individual sectors, by percentage of resolution and only when there is a need and competition you will apply and in accordance with your rank you will be invited to further discussions. I think it is a minimum that our citizens should expect us to restore trust in the institutions that the most capable ones who have shown the most knowledge are hired to have no more doubts because there is someone else's cousin, godfather, friend, party colleague whatever whenever it shows up as it does in the European Commission knowledge on a test that is equal to anyone who can be performed twice a year then everything is still a matter of formality. These are some things that will certainly raise confidence in us politicians and the state system, but also increase efficiency and believe tomorrow and the very economy of the state... Thank you. [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181122	The next Club of Representatives is that of the CNS on behalf of which they will speak the esteemed representative of the Goddess Makar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181123	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues. I don't have a problem talking in front of an empty assembly and calling my colleagues because I know they're probably in clubs or other places where they have to be at this moment, but if this appeal comes to one person, to one of our citizens, especially a woman, and if it's good, if it's for her to start by hearing this debate and taking more care of her health, I think this speech is successful. As you already know, today is red dress day. A day dedicated to fighting strokes and heart disease in women with the aim of encouraging women to take care of their health. It is primarily about the health of the heart and blood vessels because most of these diseases can be prevented by healthy habits of life that unfortunately most of us do not have. He also wants to encourage healthcare professionals to pay special attention to the stroke of heart disease in women who are still underrecognizable, under-expressive and undertreated. The day of red dresses is marked on the first Friday of February and this is the second year that this campaign, launched by the Croatian Neurological Society in 2019, is being conducted in the Republic of Croatia. The campaign symbol is a worm dress, a dress like a universal picture of a woman and red as a color of health, life and liveliness, as well as warnings. As for the history of this campaign, she would point out that the first Red Dress Day campaign, "Go Red for Women" launched in America, or the American Cardiological Society launched a campaign in 2004 in the United States and the World Cardiological Federation extended the campaign to the world level. Today, more than 50 countries are conducting a national campaign "Go Red for Women" by raising awareness and providing means to combat heart disease and strokes through the organisation of professional gatherings, educational and promotional campaigns, fashion magazines, health examinations, sports events. Scientific studies show that significantly more women than men die from strokes and heart disease but also that strokes and heart disease in women have their specificities and different symptoms as a result of which they are not recognized in due time and are not treated adequately. In Croatia, the second cause of death in men and women as well as in Europe, 6137 people died in 2018, and 11.6%, respectively. Of these, 2570 dead men, 9.9% and 3559 dead women, which is 13.3% of all dead women. Although more women die from stroke than men, in women it is still underrated as a health problem and education and awareness-raising is needed at the level of profession and the general public in the problem of stroke in women. It is also important to stress that every year, more women die of stroke than breast cancer, it is important to be aware of the risk factors and take appropriate measures to contain this disease. Women, I urge all of us to change our way of life and thus reduce the risk of stroke and your men to pay more attention and care for their wives, mothers, daughters, colleagues and friends. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181124	Thank you very much. This would end today's session, we will continue on Wednesday, February 12, at 9:30 and the first item will be the Proposal for a Law amending the National Infrastructure of Spatial Data, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 835. Have a nice weekend. Session interrupted at 13.50 p.m. The next club is the HNS on behalf of which the respected representative, Stjepan Curaj, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181126	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I would like to repeat this way one proposal that I made when there was a debate on the Law on maternity benefits that is now between the two readings in the assembly. Given that my proposal is and I think it is not just about this law, and that is why I want to strengthen it once again and establish it, so if it is necessary to complete with a new amendment to the law, the Labour Act, the Pension Insurance Act, and I hope that this same proposal will be adopted in the Second Reading in the Family Rewards Act. In fact, it is a very concrete measure that is not only demographic but has wider implications, which is that some of the things that have been home to us and generally been accepted as something in the last few years since we brought it in, and this is the possibility of working half the time and receiving a pension. I suggest that the same analogy be applied to the use of those other 6 months or parental leave for men or for fathers and mothers. Why? Not only because many of our parents, I hope an ever greater and larger number will have a higher salary in the future than these new proposed 4.991,20 kunas as compensation, is that maximum. Well, one who has 10,000 kunas of pay means if he wants to stay with his child for another six months, he gets half. This would mean that he can keep that fee and get half the salary, practically be on the same or on his own from what he normally pays or even have an increase in income if it can be regulated, but thus not only that financial aspect, which is that people can know that leaving and parenting is not going to pay them... financially,... some salary benefit given these fees, I would like to see more and more of such a number, that they are growing and higher wages, but when we look at the average wage it happens but also that professional aspect of every mother. First of all, I'm talking about mothers who unfortunately meet in employment with their employers to go on maternity or parental leave is something that we really have to plan professionally, weigh, so that we don't lose the ability to progress, not to end order again, and in the end line and in the job itself, because even though we all know it's forbidden, God forbid, we all know that many employers are counting whether or not a woman has been born, whether there are children or not, and there is an unfair difference in the labour market, and that's what we as a country need to regulate, skip, reduce and do everything in our ability to encourage and do as a demographic measure, but also the possibility that all parents have what they would say to remain those other 6 months with their child, if they want to fully or at least in those half of working time where they can really be encouraged and can't be in any of their own interest, which is less than they can be in their own interests, which they can't be, because of any of any of any kind of any kind of money, or other kind of money, which they don's, which is less of money, which they don't be in their own. And that is something that may not be possible, not perhaps, but certainly cannot be solved by the law in question because I hope that the proposal will be incorporated between these two readings, but first of all we have other laws and pensions, probably because of the payment of contributions and the internship itself, as well as the Labour Act because of the presence in the workplace and the way it is regulated for certain persons. You know when labour inspectors come to see who and on what basis they do what they do. So that's something that's not big changes, and they'd have an extremely big meaning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181127	We're continuing to take a stand on behalf of the Representatives' Club. Next up is a colleague, Stjepan Curaj, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the CNS, here's a colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181128	I thank the esteemed Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I'm going to do something that I thought someone would mention before me, but I don't know, obviously we have different topics, and I think this is one of the most important, particularly foreign-political issues that have a profound impact on the lives of everyday people. First of all, I would like to say clearly and unequivocally that the HNS as a party favouring a pro-European open, tolerated Croatia strongly condemns the Hungarian prime minister's statement that it will include Croatia in the alliance against the EU. Indeed, I find it unheard of, and that someone allows the whole country to speak in the name of it, this country has its elected representatives, legal authority, legitimacy, and thanks to God and the mind to decide for itself what is best for her. We don't need anyone else, and throughout history, we've obviously had such examples. Thank God we're not in any communities anymore. Someone's pushing something we don't want. Namely, that statement, and what actually hides behind it is just a step back. There is a folk saying that says, “Do not cut the branch you are sitting on. ” What has the EU brought us? I think all those who fight today for some national interests at the same time say we haven't withdrawn enough funds. It's a little contradictory, but as a rule, yes. The EU has given us an opportunity, opportunities that every country needs to take advantage of. There are also potential dangers, one of them is certainly this freedom of the labour market, business creation, etc., but there are many more opportunities that we use and should use even better, not only in terms of the one that is most engrossed, which we all see when we open doors and new leggoes and new roads and new buildings and energy renovations and everything else that is done with resources but also the opportunity to better arrange our country, to learn from those who have more experience and who have more mistakes behind them not to make the same mistakes. Is there a question of growth, a question of standards, a question of the rights of all possible groups in society and citizens in general, this allows us the EU. There is no longer any need for anyone in any municipality, city, county to know anyone politically, friendly, any way to provide him, let him know, let him do something for his citizens. This is what the EU has elegantly removed from our hands, thank God, that you should now only have the brains and knowledge and perseverance and work for your municipality, your city, your county and you will bring those funds as well as bring food to us in order to bring as much as possible. And not that we're gonna be the ones to decide this yes, not to raise some values to this one and I don't know what to bid. This is the most mature and basic example of why certain municipalities grow, because thanks to God, they no longer need to know anyone but to have enough brains and knowledge. Not to mention those common values from freedom to humanity. And that's why I'm thinking here, and I call once again to quickly, clearly, unequivocally read ourselves as a state and condemn these statements and returns, who knows where in what dark times and what God does not give to the community. And this means that we expect the Prime Minister and newly elected President Milanovic to clarify it once, and to be what we say to our own people and to determine our own fates, not to allow someone to drag us back and cut our own branch on which we are sitting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181129	Mr. Mario Habek will present the position of the Club of Representatives of the CNS, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181130	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. In April of last year, a company law was adopted, which among other things prescribed the obligation to keep business books in the event of the liquidation of the company. This is a defined article. 127. The law states that business books and documentation of the company liquidators surrender to the protection of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce. HGK is obliged to keep and access these received documents in accordance with the rules governing the handling of archive materials and archives. The remuneration for the storage and storage of business books and documents of the company shall be subject to the burden of the company before its removal in the amount laid down by the Regulation by the Minister responsible for the affairs of the judiciary. The regulation itself was adopted at the beginning of this year and amounts to the defined by it, which leads to the conclusion that the process of closing the company can significantly burden the entrepreneur and, as a future variable cost in the start, has a negative impact on the business activities and a healthy investment climate in the country. It is not only that throughout its business cycle, the entrepreneur encounters a series of unwarranted financial commitments, administrative barriers and costs, but it is also burdened by the company for a period of time after the company has been liquidated. By adopting such a provision of the Law, I think we were wrong because we directly damage the development of entrepreneurship, especially that small and medium-sized enterprises in Croatia and employ almost all employees in business entities, but at the time of the Law, we were not familiar with the amount of compensation that the minister subsequently prescribed, so, together with my colleague, Stjepan Curaj, I made a proposal to amend the Law on Commercial Companies which I propose to abolish the obligation to pay compensation for keeping business books and documents of society after the liquidation. It is time to simplify existing practice, to create legal frameworks that will encourage the entrepreneurship climate and a healthy environment for long-term investment instead of rigid administrations and real legal uncertainty. It is necessary to liberate unwarranted entrepreneurs, invest in the digitisation of public service services and enable entrepreneurs to grow and develop sustainablely. Not through restrictions but stimulation, because the only stable entrepreneurship condition is for a successful economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181131	The next Club of Representatives will be the CNS on behalf of which the respected representative, Stjepan Curaj, will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181132	To begin, I thank the esteemed Vice President. I'm going to start this exhibition with the quote "A in HS this morning is the same dungism, whose old bib is Ustasha and whose partisan?" finished the quote. So, ladies and gentlemen, this today, and even these days, God, and this entire term of office, is becoming more and more a circus, into an inappropriateness, something that doesn't belong in this high house, and then we're surprised when we see it on the street. The Rules of Procedure of the HS shall indicate, Art. In 240th century 4, a reminder with the words taken will be given to the representative and, when, calls for violence or hatred, or when insulting Croatian people, religious, national and other communities, sexual, gender and other groups, and foreign states and international organisations, and their representatives. We can say that someone's holding on, someone's holding on, but we need to be an example here, and every hate speech should be condemned, and as long as we deal with what feeds the lowest passions of our citizens, we lose everyone, citizens together with us. No wonder HS has the best citizen rating at the time it doesn't sit, and it's the highest institution of this country, every state and nation. Who's to blame? Well, it's a little everyone. He can't finger a single person. A little everyone. The media who find it interesting to see whether people like conflicts and rather today this will be news than any proposals that come here, initiatives, amendments, changes, good things, here I personally have been talking about 10 times now, now we are talking about different things that would certainly improve and improve the standard of Croatian citizens, some of them are doing, some are being made and so should be. I'm not saying I'm gonna stop doing this because it's not news, but we can't have all the news coming out of here that potentiate conflicts, hatred, intolerance, and we're strictly going to have to condemn it by starting with the masseuse, and then what's going on on the street. And there's no excuse when we see the fur dolls being burned, so now this one's laughing, this one's not laughing, no one's laughing, no one's being offended, no one's causing hate speech, no excuse if there's, we could be partisan here, so now we can get up and get up, paraphrase, we won't be able to power. Today I thought I'd talk about Pink T-shirts, or National Day of Fight against peer violence. My colleague Pooh said something before that. And it says for the prevention of peer violence, education at all social levels is important, and we adults should be a pattern of positive examples that we send a message of zero tolerance to any form of violence. That's what I'm saying about peer violence, and I think it can be passed on to anything else. We go from ourselves, not to give up on low passions, not to fall into traps and do what the citizens here choose us to do, and that's to work for the benefit of all citizens. Surely no one can tell me that raising low passions, identifying on national grounds is why someone should be chosen, whatever. Today, we want to pick someone in HS today because it is determined, it stands out as a certain national basis beyond the Constitutional Law, so we're not talking about constitutional rights,... The rest of us 140 here. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Please, where are we taking us? Just back up and just on that first quote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181133	Mr Stjepan Curaj will present the position of the Club of Representatives of the CNS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181134	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I'm going to remind the public a little bit of what we all see more or less, we all know, especially when we talk about Slavonia and Baranja, when we talk about inequality. We do not need to look far at the differences in standards, differences in lifestyle and specifically the pay gaps when we speak within Croatia itself. We aim for European values, we strive for European standards, we strive for levels, and we ourselves in Croatia have great inequalities. Currently, five Slavonian Baranja counties on average have an 80% average net salary. 80% of people receive that salary below average. So real somewhere in Croatia is about 6,500 average net salary in Slavonia and Baranja below 5,500, and for example in Zagreb 7,500, it means almost 40% higher, for something that is 200, 250km, 300 maybe maximum road lines away from Zagreb. And then, of course, a series of measures are trying to make and I can even say that the concentration and concern of the Slavonia and Baranja project and gives some results, there is over 11 billion agreed, withdrawn over 4.5 billion to encourage entrepreneurship, education, health, water supply, draining, energy recovery, etc., employment etc. But they all have a great majority in common to raise one quality of life, to invest in infrastructure, but not in the most important maybe we're free of it if we don't have enough people. We know here many times in the debates when any topic that contains in itself railways in the name of all very nice to say what the problem is, very nice to diagnose it. So far, the same ones who have always objected in opposition, when they were opposition to this literally no exceptions have done much more, it's not exactly that something too obvious and could. Now, by opening the eu funds, we have one chance, one door is open, but it's not enough. The railway, except for economic growth if it connects to logistics, freight transport, but also to a passenger who then has a demographic measure, would not need that first migration of ours closed when people left Osijek from Slavonia and Baranja to Zagreb. Why? Because of that information I said at the beginning, 40% higher wages, more opportunities, more opportunities. I'm not saying that it should now be taken away from Zagreb and be something jealous, no, but it should develop, it should take advantage of its comparative advantage. Railways are just one of such comparative advantages, even the European Commission says the problem of the number one transport sector in Croatia is railways. It is significantly lagging behind the EU average and let's say some shifts have been seen since last year. However, I cannot be satisfied when we look at Slavonia and Baranja to build only one railway section between Vukovar and Vinkovec worth about 72 million euros and be careful that this is a project co-financed by a freight character and on it is built a rail to the maximum design speed of 120 km/h in 2019-20, 120 km/h when around the world flies over 200, 300 per hour is connected to the freight transport of Luke Vukovar. And great. The share of projects worth 11 million euros is projected, who knows how long it takes and when it will be done when our projects last for several years, and be careful, it is a reconstruction, so there is no buyout, no expropriation, no new routes, there's no I don't know what. So the priority must be known, I've already made a proposal here, and now I'm going to do it over and over again, and that's that railroads have to become our new highways. Just using highway infrastructure and potential through concessions, monetization to invest that money in fast construction, not for 20 years, but for 3 to 5 years of high-speed railways that will connect our landscapes and enable economic development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181135	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181136	We're going to the tenth debate, dear colleague Stjepan Curaj and the club of representatives of the CNS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181137	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues and colleagues, today is Croatia, and in fact the whole of Europe as well as the world ahead of a major exam. Before the eternal doubt which is the level and extent of security and what is the level of humanity at the same time. How to reconcile those two with an obvious conflicting concept and how to remain human in all the challenges that new challenges bring before us. We must first of all be human, and that is the basis for being guided. Today's situation with the migrant crisis, new announcements is also a major test and an exam for Europe, but I think it is also an opportunity to show that the common sense and purpose of a united Europe has no alternative. Imagine a situation that everyone for themselves. To whom and what would this contribute, how would the whole of Europe behave and individual countries and us as part of this Europe? This, today, by this crisis that is ahead of us clearly and unequivocally, shows what is the point, one of the main objectives and the purpose of unifying European space. That's step one. The second step is in what are our powers, how to act, how to react to the source of the problem, and not where the consequences are here. I think it's clear now to everyone and that's exactly the direction in which European leaders and leaders work. No country must be a hostage of Europe, we, like those who have practically the longest external border of the EU, as well as countries such as Greece, Bulgaria that are the first to be hit. We all have to be the same and the same in common, and we don't think that's any of our business. When we talk about Croatia, how will we prepare ourselves, then we talk about the issue of the security aspect, and even in the concept of security and these health threats, it is certain that it will be possible for millions of people who are now standing there to question whether they pose a certain threat to safety as to the health aspect and all others, but we must not lose that humanity, we must know how. And now we're questioning how we're going to deal with it, how are we going to deal with it? We have a system and coordination of homeland security and the Homeland Security Act, but we have no further elaborated possibilities of how to implement it in the sense that the military can help, can help with logistics, nutrition, transportation, but cannot act. And that's good and that's how it's supposed to be. In peace, the army has nothing to do with civilians, don't give God threats to weapons or anything like that. The police may obviously not have enough capacity. We should find a model that exists somewhere in the world, perhaps not identical, apply it to ours in which we would unite the police, military resources, but also civilian headquarters and reserve units, if we should and get a kind army in peace. Somewhere they call it the National Guard, I think she, she has in France, she has in Portugal, the most famous in the United States. In my opinion, it's premilitarized, but its meaning and tasks could perhaps be applied in some way and used here. Sending tanks to people is not the solution. Letting it go like we don't care, so let it be whatever it is, it's absolutely not the answer. And actually, in my opinion, I think the solution is always somewhere between being human and keeping that safety. And just maybe legally bring new opportunities to form such a body that will be a kind of army in peace and that will actually help the police with the powers they have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181138	Now it's the Club of Representatives of the CNS, dear colleague Stjepan Curaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181139	I would like to thank the esteemed president, dear colleagues and colleagues. We all know that by entering the European Union we have been given a huge opportunity, I have said this several times here, which finally allows those who know, can, will, regardless of any structures of power at any level to do what citizens choose for them, it is to bring a better life to their citizens, in their own regions, and therefore use other people's money, and to their brains and knowledge and to provide money. One of these models and we all see it as an opportunity here, and we need to see, and it is one of the stakeholders and our economic development namely, one of the things that the European Commission and the European Union has provided us in this last envelope on the 14th-20th, is integrated territorial investment called ITU, in fact, which is aimed at promoting sustainable urban development, strengthening the role of cities as a driver of economic development and cooperation between the local and regional self-government units, and the development of administrative capacity of cities. Why am I saying that? Because I think that, above all, we should open up the topics of the very position of regional policy that should have its subsidiarity first as one of the fundamental postulates of the European Union or the Commission, but that it also deals with equating actual development and finding successful decentralisation models, means the same independence that the European Union has given us. And the reason why I want to call here, first of all, the Ministry of Regional Development and the European Union funds to be involved in active, without delaying the implementation of exactly and withdrawing these funds from the ITU as regards the City of Osijek and urban agglomeration of the City of Osijek, because in the last few weeks it has become some crazy scheme of circumstances, and I believe ignorance and awkwardness, urban agglomeration of the Municipality of Pununovci. Why and how, to me it remains unclear, with which objectives, I do not want to believe that they are political, it certainly refuses, and any insinuation that it has to do with because those 11 municipalities are more or less in power there, so now they have something against that the cities of Osijek, Belišce, Valpovo, possibly the Chepin Municipality as one of the largest in Osijek,... HDZ, so now they're gonna replace something, I reject it, and it can't, it can't, and I don't think it's the reason, because it would be the biggest shame we have. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I therefore call on the Ministry of Regional Development to enter the case as quickly as possible, to see how and why, because in the final line it is legally determined that the holder of urban agglomeration of urban development is also probably the City, not the Municipality, and that the legal whistle so that it cannot be replaced by the mayor from that position, and that it is only counterproductive, especially if we are talking about urban agglomeration that is the best of 7 of which we have in Croatia, Croatia, which is, which is, which is, or which has called for a call worth 89%. So, and here I call here and Mayor Anusic with whom we have as HNS excellent cooperation, we have so far had, and of course all the actors from the Ministry that perhaps through this party, if you can already say, the lines with regard to those 11 Mahma municipalities are from HDZ, to influence, to sit at the table and see what is the real problem, is what is stated de facto not. And that we're not taking steps backwards, and that we're not doing our own problems instead of doing solutions, because of some perhaps individual petty interests, I understand maybe these municipalities don't understand, they don't have the capacity and everything that they're doing, and that's why I don't understand them, that kind of their own decisions, and I don't want to believe that it has anything to do with politics. And I don't think so, I think there's just one discrepancy and it's just a coincidence that they're here on one side of the HDZ Community, on the other hand, everyone else, or cities for urban agglomeration. When it may be a community agglomeration, then it will probably make more sense to be at the head of the municipality, and this so far is an absolute laugh that entertains the public, distracts us from what we should do, which is to ensure our citizens have a better quality, better life, more quality projects and withdraw funds. And that is why I would like to call on the Ministry of Regional Development and the European Union funds to get involved as soon as possible, yes... That... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The knot, if at all, is a knot, because there is nothing controversial about it, to cut it off and move on, use this last year of this envelope and especially get into the next one even more ready and better, because I say there's a lot of it in play and I think we owe it to our citizens, and that's why I call on all sides to sit down and to influence these municipalities to still see what's in the law and what's good for urban agglomeration. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181140	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181141	And in the end, Stjepan Curaj will present the position of the Club of Representatives of the CNS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181142	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I would like to call everyone from this place to account, to caution, to say that there is no room for unnecessary panic that is harmful, malignant, at the very end of the line against the law. Spreading a variety of news, voice messages about some extraordinary states that are scheduled, etc. They're fake and you should say that. Panic spread is not good. In the end, this spread of panic can cost us far more than this epidemic itself, for which we must be extremely careful to approach with extreme responsibility and for which we should not think that it alone will go away. But one is the difference, being prepared and ready for all possibilities, and the other is to act panicously like there will be no more tomorrow. And these are the two greatest dangers we face today. We have to be ready. The government is doing everything. Good examples are of, say, keeping the teaching distance, which is in preparation for God’s help. We have such systems of protection measures, stock supplies, everything we need to do as a state that has always been for God's sake. And it should now only be reinforced yet, but not to announce a wide application, not to shine panic, not to spread false information, false news. Because everything you hear with some messages someone said- told you is a lie. Just trust the verified information that comes from the verified sources of people who are authorized to give it. That's all the information you need to take. And all the recommendations people here have been telling you, people who have been working on these nights for weeks, days, medical staff, headquarters, and certainly everything is going to be done and scenario A, B, C, D, if you want the whole alphabet. So let's be careful, let's be responsible. Let's take all the measures. We keep an eye on our health. We keep an eye on the health of others, but let us in no way spread all false news and panic because in the end it will cost us far more than this very danger, and that is what we must not allow. Let's look at the information, form ourselves, follow the instructions, not put ourselves at risk where we shouldn't, but surely let's not succumb to some justified panic, some news I don't know just where they come from and what they come from and what they don't need to be excluded from being maligned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181143	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181144	We are now moving on to the presentation of club positions and the first one on behalf of the HNS Club will be spoken by the esteemed representative Stjepan Curaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181145	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, very briefly, I think it is never and there is no limit to how many we can invite people to be responsible, invite people to be simple to prepare, normally, follow instructions and not cause panic. What follows us next week is also one of the preventive measures and what needs to be highlighted. As long as we work smartly on prevention as long as we have the chance to deal with this with the smallest consequences, both for the lives and for the health of people and for our economy. We know what the priority is, but we can't be blind to another. And precisely all the panic from the available announcements do us harm. What we still need to consider is to enable people who really have children at home, young children to work remotely. I expect it to be introduced as well as the legal possibility of working from home, and for those who, because of the nature of the job, can't be recognized for this at least as justifiable sick leave if they stay home with children. Because sending kids to school when you don't have any other options has a lot of potentially negative sides. First, these children may in some way be exposed to the virus itself or infections if they have some interaction which makes sense why they should not go, and on the other hand, and Stigmatized if they have to be there one, two, three alone by school, and for them they may be taught or not in what way they will be taken care of. And it is good that there is an option and there must always be an option and it is the task of every responsible government to always leave options, to always prepare for all scenarios, but also this with all those announced measures that are absolutely welcome and timely, this would be something else that is not any revolution. It means that all those who can do the job effectively from home to admit it, that that's why they get their pay, that they do their job, that they reduce all possible exposure to contagion, regardless of what we still see in the world. And it doesn't have to be, and that's why all of this needs to be done, and it needs to be calmed heads, not to fall for provocations, not to spread panic, it's in the end line in these cases to be classified under certain non-infringing but also criminal acts. So let's still welcome these next two weeks, let's do everything in our power to make it possible for everyone and parents in particular to be as high-quality as possible, to provide quality care for their children as regards their education at home and staying at home as well as for the part we can never forget, to the better transition for both our economies and our economies and employees, so that they can continue to work as much economic activity as possible so that it can take place uninterruptedly. Do not panic, especially fall for anything that has not been verified from the verified source. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181146	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181147	Let's move on, esteemed colleague Stephen Curry the 4th debate on behalf of the HNS Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181148	Thank you. Dear President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Let him go first with thanks, with thanks to all those who work tirelessly for medical workers, people who lay shelves in shops, cashiers who put themselves at risk to make it work, of course for all those who work on education to continue uninterruptedly, that the less we have consequences. The education that is being conducted remotely thanks to what we've been doing for the past three years, mentors who have been working at school... life now exactly what they've been doing, what many have been making fun of with a mockery watching some teacher's education through a laptop in some virtual repository, etc., materials go, today it's done, it's made possible, it's a prerequisite. The provision of schools and schools for life and all those things that we've started reforming has just made it possible for today, among the few in Europe, to have an uninterrupted teaching, that our students, our children, are actually not losing anything in this extraordinary situation. And so much said and if I ever had one myself, and I had some doubts, of course, if we did good three years ago, now I'm sure that we are, even if what it cost was worth it among other things. What I want here also highlighted is to invite all local communities, regional, county, cities to act on their municipalities in three directions. In the direction of information by preventing panic through local messages, radio stations and locals where contact information should go in an hour at least twice, where, as a matter of fact, the opening of new lines is exactly that information so as not to be the number of the County Institute for Public Health and on-call Epidemiological Service number for all is known why it is called there, where all other data are, who, where, where information means very important. It also prevents the spread or restriction of the spread of the disease to be viewed in this direction with the creation of mobile teams that will deliver supplies with all the measures taken to protect our oldest to keep them as much as possible, not to go out, not to expose those most vulnerable, also to do disinfection points, to disinfect public spaces, it is all in the jurisdiction of local self-government and it can and the sea. Also when we talk about the consequences of introducing a moratorium, they don't delay but moratorium at all, all payments of the directors regarding local communities, so water supply, cleanliness, Unico, or whatever it is called in Osijek, so waste of garbage and all other utility fees to avoid just those of the oldest to go to the counters, to go to the post office, to go to the banks, to get out, because they most often don't have Internet banking the same in terms of prevention above all. So we inform the citizens to give them the opportunity to literally bomb them, speak. I passed through the city yesterday, closed down the city of Osijek all its public facilities, sports but at the high school playground there were so many people, so much as nothing happened. Which is in one hand and good, but some sports like basketball, etc., where having close physical contact are still not recommended and people need to be explained. If you're going to come running there alone somehow, in the open air it's good, but those sports, and even football where it has low physical contact, and we know that this virus is the most transmitted, not by air, but by contact where you touch the surface, that virus stays for 12 hours and more and she carries that hand, you scratch and it's over. So that's why we need more information. It's not enough to even close when people skip the fence, there were 100 people, children who are good that it's not panic, but it's important that we know how to carry it and what to do. And in this direction I call on all local and headquarters and county and cities to act in these three directions by informing with the protection of expansion with the protection of panic, by easing the consequences that all city premises are not being charged and that together we can endure more of these times that we need. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181149	The next Club of Representatives is that of the CNS on behalf of which the respected representative, Stjepan Curaj, will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181150	I thank the esteemed Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Today we will bring the first package of measures. I say first because the second wave most likely awaits us, second measures when we see what after 2 weeks. It will be. I hope we have a better picture, but we should hope for the best and be prepared for the worst. In line with that, I'm just going to do a quick repeat of what I was saying yesterday as future suggestions. First of all, we need to provide a moratorium for all loans to citizens and economies in which the state needs to take over the cost of inter-kalating interest. So for that period until the loans are paid off, the deadline is extended, not after these measures, that 3 wars suddenly come to you on payment or that I don't know how you're going to gut them for 3, 4, 5 months. Because even then, we're going to need help because it's not going to work out just like this when we say it's all good now, we're going to need one period, for God's sake, much faster than for some crisis that's caused in the economic and financial markets and that's just going to extend that manual. So whoever's supposed to get the loan back in 100 months, three months. doesn't pay, after three months. He'll still have to do it in 100 months. To this day 103, that is. The second part is certainly to closely follow the implementing measures and regulations to which these existing measures, which we will vote here today, will also be applied in what way. What kind of employers are these with difficulties? Practically today, at this point, it's 90 percent of employers. Because it's everybody, they feel this crisis, and they're gonna need to see how it's gonna be regulated. As for future measures, I suggested yesterday and we'll move on. The idea is not that we share money, we need help, we agree and we will support it, but generally, in the long term, we don't need to share money, but this country needs to step up, adapt the Public Procurement Act, and we will quickly activate all plans for investment reflections, renewals, for everything you don't need big project documentation, permission to wait for months, to immediately give work to our builders, processors, service activities, everything that is related to it, that the equipment of schools, offices, that roads that were meant to be in the next two years or years or this year to do so in the next 3 months. anyway, there is no traffic, etc., etc. In this way, we will hire and maintain jobs, do what we should have done in some of the next year, so maybe children will also get new benches, new chairs, new equipment in schools, in all public institutions, etc. It means making use of these vast billions. That we have something after this crisis, that we have left, not to divide 5 billion, and after the crisis, we have nothing. Eat, eat, eat, eat, eat, eat, eat, eat, eat, eat, eat, eat, eat, eat, 5 billion gone, people survived but we have nothing. This is how we let them continue to work, to feel good, with all precautions, and ultimately we have added value. What we would have to do in the next year or two eventually. And we suspend these public procurement laws not to wait 3 months, but to go without open negotiation procedures without prior publication as prescribed in the emergency situations to laugh, just to expand the situation a little bit. And if it could be done at prices as soon as possible, of course, that there would be no abuse, certainly not greater than for similar jobs over the last year that have been done. And we're moving, we're working, we're left with something. In this section, too, it should be reconsidered that labour ban measures do not apply to those construction equipment stores, that they must take all directions but that they must leave as a service, as a possibility that all those workers we have not prohibited from working, that they can work. It's tied to each other. And also consider that just when we talk about the construction sector, as a model of agricultural, or fisheries, it is also possible for construction engineers to use subsidized fuel or blue diesel for their machines. And in the end, from tomorrow, I'm glad to say that from tomorrow all those teachers who participate and work can work from home if the conditions are ensured to see the school at a distance, so they won't have to come to school, the principals will be in charge of it, and from tomorrow whoever has the conditions to do the job from home, teachers, teachers, will no longer have to come to school, so that measure, I believe, but tomorrow it will take effect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181151	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181152	Mr. Tomislav Sauch, the position of the Club of Representatives of the CNS.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181153	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I hope my colleague, I sincerely hope my colleague got confused if we got 19 million 2500 masks... Okay, because that would be, that would be even more expensive than the black market you'd like to talk about today. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] So, look, this is how my mother called me this morning and asked me a very simple question about where she could buy those one-time protective masks? A woman is 74 years old. She's a lung patient. My father is also 74 years old, two weeks or a week ago he came back from the Jordanian, so I would have to answer that if he had nowhere to buy protection masks. Now, did we fail, could something else be done? Maybe it is. Look because actually when they said there was nowhere to buy I was wrong, there's somewhere to buy, there is. On that line with the advertising pages, not to advertise them now. They can be ashamed. So these people, not people, it doesn't matter where they got those masks, whether they got them through Amazon or they got them here in Croatia while they could still get them. They sell masks, one-time surgical masks that cost about three weeks ago, a couple of limes, they're selling 20 kunas today. So one pack of 50 today costs 1,000 kuna, 1,000 kuna. Now if it's not a crime, if it's not war profit, I don't know what it is. And it doesn't go to my head what the state does, what the police do, what the State Inspectorate does when they get white under their nose every day on those websites selling needs, selling goods that are of the most vulnerable at the prices they cross, I don't know what the percentage of the increase is. So something that cost a few lipos three weeks ago now costs 20 kunas and no one's responded to it in days. A close person, we also talked to older people yesterday, told me, boasted that his wife had managed to get them for 550 kuna 50 pieces, 550 kuna. I thought I heard everything and then today I'm watching an ad on that one of the advertisers, says I'm selling 20 kuna protective masks. So it's not people, it's inhumans, it's criminals, it's war profiteers, and these people should be found, and these people should be prosecuted, and these people should be punished for teaching everyone else because this is not how people should behave at times like this. And the state is here to protect us all from predators like this, from petty thieves who use human trouble to make themselves rich, and that should end. Today, masks, what happens tomorrow? Water? The bottled water, the milk, the flour, the toilet paper? This is a very serious situation, it needs to be taken extremely, extremely seriously. And these masks that are now being purchased, if they're going to be released for sale, there's going to be some "smart entrepreneur" nice again, so that by chance someone doesn't get me, they're not entrepreneurs, they're criminals, I may have expressed myself foolishly. One such criminal will come, he'll buy 10 packages, and we'll buy our old one again, our weak ones will buy it 1,000, 1,500 kuna. I haven't been able to visit my father in days because I have three more masks and I've been saving them for an extraordinary situation. I'm delivering food at his door and I'll talk to him on the phone. Shame on them. And one thing that could be done very quickly, before it goes into some broader police or whatever action, please, I appeal to those who have executive powers, to these people you mentioned earlier, who make decisions have a responsibility. If you do anything else to get these advertisers to stop passing these ads, if anything else, let's get them to the bandits and let them stick around the neighborhood, so let's get those little paperies to sell 20 kunas to the mask, so some people have to rip it off. Well, when he sees them for the first time, he's gonna win a tambourine. This is inadmissible in one orderly normal country. Shame on them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181154	Now let's go to the debate of the Club of Representatives of the CNS, the esteemed colleague of Stjepan Curaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181155	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I want to express my gratitude to all those who work tirelessly, who work day and night, who sacrifice themselves and their families to get through this crisis as quickly as possible. Today here, and also in the media space, we can witness our own auctions, the auctions of those who know nothing, those who think they know, and you are always the most dangerous and those who even know something. Of course, you last in all of this in this cacophony, which should, as a matter of fact, come at least to terms and it's hard to know a tree from the woods. What are we supposed to do? Of course those who know and we here who have some experience are invited to actually propose, the government is the most responsible. One of the proposals I've already made is absolutely something that I don't understand, but certainly as far as my colleagues Bernardic and his proposal are concerned, we certainly don't go with the politics of all dead, all the statue where to go. It is necessary to clearly determine what priorities are, where the state must and should generate a job, generate offers, if those who can do so are capable of health care in terms of security and everything that goes, and not vice versa. Contraction to work on the market and let everyone go down like this. As for delays and moratories, I'm not here, but in the Parliament, I already said we should introduce a moratorium on loans to citizens and economics. Right now, banks don't know how to wait for 15.4. Some banks say they can postpone, but you have to pay interest. Of course, she still needs to put it all together, and we're just about to take action. Why not postpone the moratorium? Moratorium means pause, you pick up where you left off when you needed to. I also suggested that these inter-calary interest states take over on themselves, that there really is no such cost as it stands. According to the three plus three delay model, after three months, if it's all over and everything starts, these three months won't be crucial in that model to get rid of the 24 months, but if we move on then write off these first three months and each time three plus three. Because if this ends in three weeks, if dear God does, and then until one part of that first three months goes by, it won't be so crucial. Of course we can't say it selectively again, nobody has to pay anything, and that sounds nice, you don't have to pay any taxes, you don't have to pay VAT, you don't have to pay anybody, and all these people who do firemen, cops, health workers, people who will ensure normal functioning with them will pay dear God because we forget how the state works or the state needs to print money and then just go all the way to the devil. So we have to be responsible and we have to be smart. We have two confrontations, populism and solidarity. What's the difference? Popularism is coming here and saying what to do, solidarity is doing it and acting, so all those who shout need all of us at the minimum, no one should pay anyone anything to fire everyone. My people, the government has set up an account, I would ask the media to place it, that there is a fund for payment and victims of earthquakes in Zagreb and the fight against the coronary virus. So all those who want something, show it, pay it, give it as much as you can, will give it to those who can more regardless of whether they receive pay from the state or private sector or have any savings or whatever. There's a difference between pulsism and solidarity, come here, and the nicest thing to say to me is we're all going to do everything, we're great how to get solidarity, but not me, but someone else has to do it for me, because I'm not going to do mine. It's the people of my classical populism, and that's the least we need. One thing we've left out of these measures, and this way I want to draw attention to the government for these are associations. Associations from all these measures that I have read are not listed anywhere, the association we have praises of valuable, quality, good that work and public functions, which also have employees, who can now make no relief on these salaries because they are not simply listed and it would beg that they be included with crafts and craftsmen together with businesses as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181156	Thank you. We are now going to debate number 9 on behalf of HNS Representatives' Club, respected counterpart Milorad Batinic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181158	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues, above all thanks all to all of the civilian headquarters at the level of the Republic of Croatia, medical staff, as well as to all citizens who respect the measures prescribed and, of course, to all those who refrain from these measures or who are not correct in sticking to them. What I want to say on behalf of the club is about this introduction, first of all, about the economic and economic measures that are ahead of us this Friday should bring additional, complementary measures. What has been announced so far sounds good and I believe it will get some positive effects. But government measures won't be enough, that's what I'm afraid of. Equally so simply because I am able and as mayor on a daily basis to communicate with a wider circle of entrepreneurs not only from my environment but also from the wider and gain from them and certain concrete not only proposals but also the problems they face. Many of them are closed, they don't work, they don't have, they don't make income, and there, anyway, and from a local level as much as I have information leaders in some way, or they just cut out city charges, city taxes to them, they release them entirely. In those who operate hard, and the vast majority, to say almost everyone in these circumstances, are operating hard. They're having trouble transporting, cancelling certain customers, certain orders, supply problems, repromaterials, vegetation, asking what the situation is, big living, working week after week. It is not easy, however, but they do not surrender as much as positive, organised by those working on one shift have the capacity to respect the measures prescribed by civil protection headquarters organised work in two some even three shifts to minimise grouping and less exposure of workers. What is important except for these economic measures that are on track and retaining, above all existing jobs, is very important that through measures and headquarters we allow how smooth the work of all the owners who have the opportunity to work as smoothly as possible. This is a time that is more visible than ever before the state's dependence on the economy, the dependence of the citizens themselves on the economy, means jobs, and just as it may not at this point, but it will be in the coming period, especially in a period that has been estimated for several months and even up to a year the recovery time after this crisis is primarily the banking sector. There are certain intentions and some are being implemented, the CNB has relaxed the stock or reserve to commercial banks and has reduced by some 20 percent, but I have a feeling and information that banks continue to give up on intercal interest. These are just some details that the CNB will primarily have to communicate with commercial banks. What is important, I believe these measures will get some results, however it will also take not from, after 2.3 months but from month to month to month to follow the entrepreneurial economic flows. We must not forget, not to mention that we are all, all citizens of the Republic of Croatia and economics and states and the banking sector and we as citizens, employees that we are on the same ship, that we are on the same ship as colleagues and colleagues, and I fear that if they take the helm each and every one of us will not get far. What I would also like to mention is that we need as much red tape as possible in this period as possible, as little red tape as possible, certain decisions, because measures must be taken not from today to tomorrow, but today within half an hour or an hour. What would also request to headquarters do a great job, however we still have a case that a particular construction company has a concrete example of them, I can't finish a job of a few dozen million jobs on the island. We need to find a model, we need to find a way, we cannot respect measures, I respect the autonomy of certain headquarters, but we must not prevent entrepreneurs from functioning normally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181159	Thank you. 9th debate, esteemed colleague Stjepan Curaj on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the CNS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181161	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues and colleagues. There is a holiday weekend behind us that was accompanied by opening markets under certain conditions. Measures on market purchases, I'll just list some of the ones that have been betrayed. So at 7,000 squares maximum 200 customers, mandatory shoe disinfection, of course by hand at the entrance and exit, bulkheads so that customers cannot touch the products independently, the distance between customers and customers and sellers from 3 to 5 meters in the premises of all markets. I am sure, I speak for Osijek, but also most of Croatia that under these conditions we can already close all markets today. There's no way of respecting the distance from three to five meters, let's just kind of go between the sellers, that might be even more, but between the buyer and the seller, I just don't see it because I haven't seen a three-foot stick anywhere that someone's adding money to and handing over bags. I didn't see it anywhere. Why is that? I don't know. The bulkheads are also a great thing, and I think these things are good in general, but for me, it's a question of what they are when they're shopping in malls. I haven't been able to find them and I'd like someone to send it to me, some link that the Civilian Headquarters brought to the national store what measures it took to buy in the malls. Distance from 3 to 5 meters, building that can't be touched, disinfecting the shoes on the way in, I didn't see it. What's the difference? Markets are fraught when we talk about this in the open, shopping centres are closed, there are meterers, counters and they stick to it, but generally it can still be touched by products, chosen by products, etc., etc. There's a place like this where there's a couple of customers, and it works. So I'm afraid we're going somewhere too restrictive, and we've let it go somewhere. There's always a solution in the middle. I suggest that for markets and supermarkets to be made in terms of pre-packs that will be half a kilo, a kilo, 2, 3 kilos already packed that there is no need for someone to pick, break, touch each product puts itself in a bag, etc. something on the trail of this market building where you can't choose which tomatoes, peppers or whatever, but it works for you as well as at malls, that already there are bags where the sellers have repacked or I say by these measures we can immediately close all markets if we see that it doesn't go if there are conditions, conditions exist that virtually no one should have been even open for 3 to 5 meters apart is impossible to keep not only in the markets but also in supermarkets especially those and smaller ones who have 10 squares of space for.../incomprehensible/... What I've been saying and I just want to remind you these past few weeks is that we have to work intensively on both these control measures and what's going to be the day after. Which will be the day this thing stops, which will be the day they stop coming money from the country in which we will raise our economy and bring it back. Because it's safe that she fell, that's without further ado, but the question is what's gonna happen later. Especially since all those who are now using, who have hurried after these measures that are good and have helped are not allowed to fire these workers at least the same time as they used. So they'll have to find work for these workers, they'll have to get paid if I'm not wrong. One of the proposals that I made a few weeks ago was this kind of mini New Deal, that the state does not stop with investments, not only big ones, but also these investment maintenance, but it is precisely that it generates this job offer that will leave added value behind. Because today you give the worker 4,000 kuna that's thrown in terms of state revenue. The only way to get something back through consumption is when the Kuna leaves. But if you give the company a job to earn their salary and to keep something as added value, so we're talking about equipment, I see that HAC has given up the reconstruction of roads, highways, that's all to do. And that's where we have to go as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181162	It is now up to Mr. Stjepan Curaj, who will speak, to be the position of the Croatian People's Party, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181163	I thank the esteemed Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Yeah, I said something a few weeks ago, I'll do it again today. I don't think it's ever too bad to repeat anything again. In fact, all suggestions that can be considered are always well - meaning. In fact, I've taken them out several times for this and for those former speakers in previous places to actually come up with the best solution how to bridge this crisis, how to alleviate it as much as possible, how to help our citizens, and then actually also employers. And that was the first part of what everyone focused on in the first few weeks and he was supposed to be. The only thing I said that went a little bit into an inflation proposal to paraphrasise the forest is that we don't see a tree anymore, where I haven't heard a lot of suggestions, from where, from which side? A colleague of Lovrinović was now talking here about a currency swap that was signed the other day, which is not, could be signed that we are not in the European Course Mechanism, now I don't know if he's talking about international reserves or foreign reserves, so there are different things, we know that our kuna is more or less covered in the EUR's, so if it is, then we know how it works and what it actually brings us. Politics is now more important, I said a few weeks ago, that not only is the course kept but if it can be even stronger, stronger though it is illusory to expect it. Why? Because now exports and we don't have a strong rate, it hurts our exports, but, that is, a weak rate harms all of our citizens who have loans in the euro, the de fact that kuna weakens it, they have to pay their loans more if it is in addition to the currency clause they are raised in the euro. So now that we've already been exported and we don't have a risk of a fall in exports bigger than this. Now this is exactly what the mechanisms that allow us to do if we were in the European Course Mechanism, if we had the EUR we'd still be better, we could defend, we wouldn't have that risk, first and foremost we wouldn't, we can defend that course precisely with what happened. What's important and what I'm trying to say is that we have to think about what after these first measures, which after everything gives up, when so many things are normalized because the economy won't just normalize overnight. It has fallen a lot, but it is not the cause of the financial crisis, the economic crisis, but the security aspect that it has pulled behind it, it is expected that it will return much faster than those of the previous financial crisis, but we need to get there in advance. We know that 20% of our GDP came from tourism, it's illusory to expect, I don't know how much at all, not half as much, we have to make sure that we fill that offer with domestic demand in a way that we can encourage, in a way that we can watch how to connect the continental and marine Republic, of course we always have a security aspect. What other types of tourism can we offer to foreign guests if we allow them to enter the country at all, and we probably want to open the borders and how in general, and I have already said that several times already, to start that economy. Because my idea was also with a kind of mini New Deal where the state takes over the main function, but not when we talk about these big investments that are already going anyway than when we talk about a lot of small ones to one way and suspend certain provisions of the Public Procurement Act or to apply those in crisis situations and urgency so that we can go into a negotiating process without prior publication, that as much as possible of what is planned for us this year, in the following year, we go to work now. And then I don't agree that the HAC is suspending the restoration of its roads, because I just think it's a solution if, and now, today, tomorrow, if certain measures are taken to protect the backpacks who are doing this anyway, then it's better to pay them through extra budget users that they can run as much of what they need to do anyway than to give them money because when we give the money back, we're going to get it hard, especially if spending is the kind of people who don't have to spend it, we're just putting out the fire. If we give people a job, then the benefit is much bigger, and above all, we're left with added value. What we're going to have to spend money on in the next three years anyway. Why did I say roads? Because there isn't any tourism anyway, so it's not like you're going outside of Zagreb, there's no one left to drive three cars except for the truck. So maybe it should be a way to go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181164	Thank you. Thank you, too. Before we give the word to Mr. Vlaovic who has the last statement of view, we have a violation of Mr. Lovrinović's Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181165	Dear Vice President, Article 238, Col. Curray used his free speech to pollemize with me, you were obliged to warn him because I don't have the opportunity to answer to him right now. He's got no one to preach to, I know he's defending this government in front of the HNS, when I remember Dr. The dog who was, that party turned into something really desperate and please don't ever do that to anyone else again. You sing, you see, I do not preach to you, [[Intruder: Thank you, time.]] speak freely of what you think and do not deal with others. [[Intruder: But it's time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181166	Mr. Lovrinović, Mr. Lovrinović, you know I shouldn't have let her answer you, I let you, stick to at least the time and you give it to me, because it's going to turn into a controversy right now. You said here what you think, you're welcome, do you have a right to it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181167	Your Honored Vice President, you did not give notice to a colleague who had used the violation of the Rules of Procedure for a simple replica. I used my free speech exactly like that, free, unless you say right now that I can't say what I think, that's your attitude, I'll keep saying what I think. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181168	Just a moment to see what article 239 says, the MP will be given a warning if he acts contrary to article 238, which you think means 239,.../incomprehensible/... I was wrong not to give him a warning. Okay, let's move on, we won't be giving any more warnings today I think you all had the right to a stand, I did give you the right to a stand, thank you very much. It was more of a debate than anything else.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181169	The next statement of view is the esteemed representative of Stjepan Curaj on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the CNS.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181170	I thank the esteemed Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I just want to warn here about the implementation of these measures that we have voted in the past few weeks, concrete measures to help the grants, 3.250,00 kn for March and 4,000.00 kn, as we voted for April. In practice, it turns out that certain companies are being rejected. Companies that operate under one OIB, therefore one company, have no daughter companies and, in their activities, have a different set of exactly these activities, one of them is hospitality. In particular, we can talk about small companies, bakers who have 4 and by the way and a catering facility, so in the bakery for 8 people, they continue to work and make revenues, and 4 people who worked in a catering facility can't work. Or companies that are hundreds and hundreds of employees, thousands, who have hospitality as one part, part of their business and what they say about social nutrition and their employees, so they have 50, 100 employees in that segment of their business, and then they can't win the question because it's being seen as a company as a whole, not a segment of their business that the state has banned from working, even for its workers and for its own purposes because it's also banned because we diagnosed it as potential sources of infection. But we don't give them that possibility that there's nothing left to them but to these people sent to the street. And that's exactly what we wanted to avoid whether it was from 4 people in a small company or 54 of them in a larger one that they are one of the parts of the company's production system itself or the services they provide. That's how the information comes in, and that's what we need, if it's not legally envisaged, then we need to get into the change and supplement of the existing law, otherwise the meaning of the legislator and of us here who wanted to leave these people behind and not get fired. And that's why the measure. The second thing is to mention the moratorium that we've now voted on on the SDP proposal, something that I've already pulled out a lot of times for this speaker, here that we were before the earthquake, and then again and then down in the INA rooms is exactly the system to do it. This as it was suggested is quite populist, quite unspeakable and we couldn't quite support it because I don't think 12 months is good, that it's not good that everyone can do it, but I also think it's not good what it is today. The possibility in which it is actually a model that every other system, or in all other times, you had the right to gain it is not now, are now extraordinary measures. And especially in this law, there was nothing even mentioned in the signing of moratories, and they sent a public notary because of changes to the basic provisions of the contract, so they are paid in terms of both the principal and the sums and a few thousand kunas for the moratorium to be obtained, and then they beat up the regular interest. My initial proposal was for the state to enter this subsidisation of this kind of inter-calary interest, especially if we say that 12 months of practically not doing its cor business then we will have to have another law to save these same banks or what this is, I don't know in which way, so we need to see that it takes as much as it can bear, so, to free public note tariffs, or costs, that, if a certain interest is to be paid there, or half it or determine the maximum amount or subsidies, and that this applies to those who really have a reduction in income, and not at all. If anything subsidizes. Now that law, that's what we're looking for, and that's what I'm suggesting, it's not just 3 articles and say it's like that now, it needs to be done systematically and better. That's why we couldn't fully support, or we were somewhat abstentioned to this bill because we recognize the need, we recognize that this isn't the best solution right now, this was not a good enough solution, and we need to do this in a really good way to keep the stability of the financial system, but also ultimately, to get citizens really who are in need, that it's not, that now the moratorium turns out that if their system was a war, that is, the annuity of half the principal, half the interest, that instead of 4 thousand kunas are paying now 2 and then they go on as if nothing had happened. But those wars have to be put to the end of the payment plan, Stand still and possibly that kind of interkalare interest to be split and to have that state either subsidized or to find a model with banks, when you see how much it would be, to keep financial stability. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181171	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181172	The next club of representatives is that of the CNS in the name of which the respected representative, Stjepan Curaj, will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181173	I thank the esteemed Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. We've heard again in media space a few suggestions, objections, grudges, you for everything, practically. You for you economic situations, you for you measure, you for you epidemiological images, you for you measure the same, etc., etc. And now the last is tied to the educational state of the country, or the future of ours, above all, the seniors. And the nicest thing would be, I think a lot of our citizens would accept me saying here right now, if we said no graduation, no entrance exam, everyone can sign in whatever they want and as much as they want. Here, and that would be best, I think the public would be thrilled, everyone enrolls any college they want, just needs to send two papers, even online, don't even have to show up and everyone can study whatever they want. Also, just to lead, connect the parallel, let the state instead of four thousand kunas that 10, let no one have to pay swear taxes, in the end, each one be all they want. Let's cancel the VAT, why should we pay him now? Let's raise our salaries to those who work, let's not cut anyone's wages, and ultimately, I think we should get a second term final grade. Although, when we're giving everybody a free license... colleges, or no colleges, so irrelevant. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That would be ideal. I think we'd all be thrilled, which, by the way, would be the consequences of that. That doesn't matter. A few things, first of all, are said that if, if the situation allows, we can't say 17.5. and then say that it isn't but 28.5., but it's not 3.6, but it's 17.6. Who can know and who can say that? On what terms? Today's something, tomorrow, today we have 26 newly infected, tomorrow we'll have 138, the day after tomorrow 2. God forbid there's nothing going on. What conditions, will they be able to, in what way? At present, the graduation period is scheduled from June 8th to June 29th, in that period, to prepare themselves. Of course, students need to prepare. They don't need a date for them to start preparing, I think it's clear to everyone because they're getting ready not, when they knew, they didn't even know the date last year so some of them started to prepare because it's pretty much known, 5 months, how things were coming, etc. They've been preparing for years, at the very end of the line, all their education is preparing for it because it's the future. Of course, the prom is mentioned, the state is an exceptional anti-corruption instrument that enables us to evenly evaluate, equality according to all, equal terms and equal opportunities, or to show their knowledge under the same frameworks without thinking about what we're used to over a relationship. '91. A year, '92. There was no school, I was in Osijek, I was in War Osijek, I didn't go to school, I graduated fifth grade in '92. In two months of summer. In the 2nd summer months, I finished the 5th grade, which is extremely important, crucial in further education. Nothing stopped me from going through all the other classes with a great one later in my life, and a lot of my colleagues didn't feel the problem. These are extraordinary situations. And to say, to relate to one more thing, how people don't die of the crown but with the crown, what does that mean? This means that someone who has some chronic diseases, diabetes, hypertension, high pressure, etc., here's not dying of the crown but died of it. Well, people live for tens of years with these diseases. For decades, their whole lives, they've been taking therapy. And now say they didn't die because of this disease but because they had some chronic disease. Today people normally live with these chronic diseases and other, a series of other diseases. They work, they're not sick, they're not disabled, they work normally, and they say that then this crown doesn't die is really hard and don't let God experience it. So we have extraordinary measures and we follow the instructions and we do what needs to be done as soon as possible, then we'll have everything we need.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181174	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181175	We're going to a third debate right now. The club of representatives of the CNS esteemed colleague Stjepan Curaj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181176	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, last week we felt a small part of what happened to us more than a month ago, there are many more questions for the citizens, especially those who got red stickers, and of course I'm talking about the earthquake, about the earthquake that lasted 10 seconds, and it leaves the consequences that will last for decades and for some, unfortunately, the lives will be marked practically for the rest of their lives, and we have had fatal cases so that really one tragedy that needs to be systematically approached. There are a lot of issues with red stickers, how many subsidies there will be around the house, the building, whether they will be recognised and compensated for the costs of those who are already not, what he has done, what he has done, which has removed the dangers etc. I think that because of this, the ministry has joined the draft law immediately two weeks ago to answer all these questions, but not only to answer them, but to ensure sustainability and the possibility of implementation in line with the profession. So, the law in question that we expect, either this or the latest next week, should actually give answers to a lot of questions. Some of these issues that should be regulated are in fact precisely the programme of measures and activities to restore their content, to create, to create professional analytical bases for urban reconstruction, to restore buildings, to remove damaged buildings and buildings that are located in the historical unit, to build replacement family houses, to apply regulations, to change and to apply regulations in the area of spatial planning, to pay for monetary aid for renovations precisely what citizens are most interested in, to build precisely, to provide housing for people affected by earthquakes, money for temporary protection of buildings and chimneys, to support the purchase of condensation boilers, otherwise we have this problem and independent of this earthquake, etc., so to adopt intervention measures. As a rule, there are many issues that need to be systematically settled, which the profession should be determined, in which way and in the end line in which it will be financed. So there are conversations with the European Commission, the World Bank, if and in any way to close the financial structure because the easiest way to talk is to talk, let's help, and when we go we can't play with these things, we can't leave people alone, we can't understand this. It is one complex law and what is most important in everything that they are, that they are and are involved in the making of this law, all the actors that are needed, so above all, the profession of all these issues, there are even more of them, of course, to which this law should be determined. So no overnight solution can help us here, and we know that every day matters to people and uncertainty is important. One of those things is certainly thinking when I was talking about sustainability as well as what happened afterwards. We'll build temporary accommodations. What this law provides for is to go into construction immediately, and it collects or obtains a building permit to have as little paperwork as possible, so this must be regulated legally. First of all, the idea is that these temporary accommodations are later used as dormitories, meaning one multifunctionality, actually having that added value, etc., etc. I think the most important thing is for people to get answers to these main questions as soon as possible and to start solving situations for which some are already unsustainable. It can't be done overnight, anyone who says it could have already been almost three weeks ago, lies if the way is complex is the way it has to be sustainable, is the way it has to be closed, with a closed financial structure, we can't promise and talk to people, and we don't know where it's going to go, how, how someone's going to get a permit, how they're going to build, how they're going to subsidize, by which criteria etc., etc., then we'd have a classic El Dorado, and it would turn into an ordinary grab, something like that we can see now in the parking lots of some and warehouses of the City of Zagreb. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181177	Now it's the club of representatives of the HNS and colleagues of Stjepan Curaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181178	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues and colleagues, before these current topics allow me to congratulate both on behalf of the club and on my personal behalf the International Sisterhood Day which is marked on this day taken as the day or birthday of the person Florence Nightingale who actually founded the first school for the education of nurses in England. I think we're talking about, and thank you and everything that's already become some kind of nuanced phrase that we're using so easily. More important is what we show, what is more important is what something under 40,000 nurses or technicians in Croatia are doing, how it works, in which conditions are not ideal. And our number is somewhere with a hell of a 140 technicians and sisters at 100,000 inhabitants making us malts not least in Europe, and there's something that's over, that we have to think about. The terms, the number and the way they work, and so she shows our gratitude, and especially now in these times I think it's pointless to talk. So once again, I congratulate everyone this day who I think is special to many things, especially in which situation it is marked and which is why we need to mark it more, but also act. As far as the current political situation is concerned, we see that here they are behind the pay phone that the elections, the mention of elections, the announcement of elections, the light motive for almost every advocate who spoke, almost every political party that is and normal is that we here account for citizens, we are elected by citizens and we are working in the interest or at least we should work in the interests of the same citizens. And that's actually the essence of election issues or not, citizens' interests, the safety of citizens. If the situation were such that the ruling majority said that for the sake of security they did not want to hold elections in the election year, I think they would be raised here on their backs as democracy chokes and usurped power. We'd have a replacement thesis. You can organize the right of citizens in one way or another, I think Mr. Capak said a vote at a distance, not that they would go to vote, but anyway. Now I'm also interested in how there will be special CIA teams in suitors who will take and count these votes and how it will be organised, means double the work of election committees, more people, who's trained to do it. These are serious things we need to think about before we go into this. But when I say let's keep going and until the situation is good to do the election and all of this to the government, I think tomorrow we'll get headlines on the anti-constitutional and constitutional lawsuits, etc. Then what exactly is the question? As far as I can see, it's not a question of whether to hold elections or not, but only when. Whether at either the 7th or the 9th month or the 10th, we are here by law and by law, the Constitution ends on the 16th of this year. After that, constitutionals go, so we don't do anything, so we don't make any constitutional decisions to hold elections for 30 to 60 days. Is it gonna get better then? No one knows. Is it going better now? It's going. Is power going to hold elections? Nobody knows that yet, but we need to be prepared. We should have legitimacy or I guess we should have and say no, we won't go to the election let this government continue to rule as long as it has to. Well, I don't think we'd be able to get anything out of our ears that we could talk about. And then I rip this up, don't make choices when it doesn't suit us, and that's not good either. The only good situation is that if you really are healthy and can organize and allow health reasons, whether the Parliament is dissolved or not, we are still parliamentary representatives regardless of what we have disbanded. We can go back and make decisions again, yes. So just disbanding the law doesn't mean the necessity to choose if something changes some situation won't be held. But I also can't hold elections in three days is we now if we say here we see now in the next three weeks everything will be fine. This situation requires new legitimacy, and at least as far as the HNS is concerned, it is important to get here as soon as possible, to settle things, of course, if the conditions are met. And that is whether the parliament will disband or does not necessarily mean that elections will be held. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181179	Let's move on. Mr. Stjepan Curaj will present the position of the CNS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181180	I thank the esteemed Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Since it's more or less over in every debate, which by the day points, which here at the pay phone with a few exceptions is being apostrophe that the upcoming elections because of course we are in the election year, even if it weren't so it wouldn't be any different. As for the CNS, we've said our position and I'm going to take it here and repeat it again. So, elections that if you get health conditions for that. The disbandment of parliaments does not necessarily need to be immediately connected and automation means elections are going because the period is a minimum of 30 days from the day of the break-up when elections can only be called by means of the first week, and then you have practically 4 weeks after that 30 days to choose, or the president chooses by his decision. If something were to happen in those 30 days and if it weren't for the positive opinions of experts then the elections would not be held, because no one has the right to endanger our citizens for such reasons. And the Constitution also provides for such a situation, and that is why we here all still have our mandates so that we can re-invocate and decide on matters of importance until a new assembly is established. So disbanding the assembly does not necessarily mean, but most likely it should automatically hold elections in these situations. The elections, therefore, this is an election year, I have not seen here a single proposal to postpone an absolute election for a year, let's just say for these security reasons, but only if it suits anyone whether they're in the 7th month or in the 9th. The right of every ruling majority was to decide on the elections, I said yesterday, and so far I have not recorded in Croatia's history that it was going to the constitutional deadline for disbanding the parliament by force of law, but until now, the assembly is always disbanding itself. Two months, three months, we got 16. The 10th deadline when we were disbanded by law means that by the law's order and the constitution, the elections would be from 17.11. to 1612. But so far, I don't remember it ever being recorded. So that's where we're talking about the term best suited. Why do we think we need it as soon as possible? It's because citizens and the situation we've found ourselves in don't have time to wait. This government, again, I say that regular circumstances are neither to make nor to accidentally consider any decision on borrowing in the next 10, 5 years, for billions of years, it would be highly respected that the government spends everything it can and leaves desolation for those who come. But now you should actually, if I understand correctly, say don't be in debt, don't make any decisions or wait if it might be better for us to be choices, it doesn't really work out, and in the end line, it's the right of most people to disband as it is so far when they think it's best. So, if the two of us choose, then there's really no choice and they always have to be citizens to make certain decisions as soon as possible. Certain decisions, as we have the Rehabilitation Act, our goal is certainly not to wait and act immediately for people who are already without their homes, they can't wait for the law, nor the budget of the 10th and 10th billion, nor the implementing signatures, etc., because it can't go overnight, whoever says otherwise, because you can't decide who you're going to decide which way, who's going to finance, from which resources, as far as possible, can't even get over the night, so it's important that people get what they can do, and that's exactly what they're doing, to make sure that the chimneys are fixed, so that the van heaters can't be used for heating for sanitary water, to provide them with the rent that goes or to pay them rent apartments if they don't have their roof over their heads and what they't have to do this week anyway, I hope to bring in order to provide the funds for designing the renovations. Because no matter what we pass the law and secure the 10's and 10's billions again without designing, no project, no ways, no work, no rules, nothing can be done tomorrow. These are our priorities, and it has to be. When all this is done, and I believe it will, and we have opened an item in the budget, and I specifically asked the amendment to re-apply then we can just welcome the elections and the new government that will be in charge and find the funding model. A little around these renewal laws, yesterday I listen to a colleague of Vardo here and says he will not support the law, at the same time, Bandic says he will not vote in favour of disbanding the parliament unless the law is passed which they de facto will not support. So that's what I'm left with vaguely, probably someone there will be rectified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181181	Thank you very much. And now it's Mr. Stjepan Curaj who will be the position of the Club of Representatives of the CNS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181183	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues now something completely different, something unrelated to the election, something that I think is actually a crown of years of effort and actually a priority that we set three years ago by entering this government. Since the next school year, all students in class will be able to choose information as an election subject. But to calm my colleagues up on the right, that doesn't mean they'll be either-or, but they'll be able to have both religious science and information. That's the other pair of gloves. So, for the teaching of information, 70 hours are scheduled for teaching, classes per year. For this purpose, more than 15 million kunas of equipment were provided, additional equipment of 1.137 district schools because we should say that the earlier investments each, meaning parent schools, primary schools, all primary schools received funds to equip one IT classroom. It has now spread so that all children in all schools and districts would have both the equipment and the possibility of attending information as an election subject. I think it's on the trail, especially considering now he's teaching or teaching at a distance that's also not possible that certain measures and steps have not been taken in the past, in the past few years of changing the very possibilities of the curricula that he predicts, equipment, all of that, "schools for life" where in fact all the same models, classrooms of virtual then lecturers, actually mentors have taken over and carried this program. So we're here somewhere actually in front of many of them colleagues in Europe. I think I just need to remind myself of where we are in this context, in fact, where the ministry has also created a joint project of the Institute, with the Institute for Youth Development and Carnet Promicro, where about 45,000 microaccounts have been secured precisely with the aim of raising digital literacy in various teaching subjects and extracurricular activities. We already know that we have introduced mandatory information in 5 and 6 classes of all primary schools and also, more recent curricula of information, remember those inscriptions that were done in textbooks that were prescribed 15-20 years ago, which was incomprehensible in terms of development and modernisation, above all, informatics. So, first of all, when we look at this curricula reform, with the realisation itself, at school equipment, it's already over 36 million kuna. So, this is something that's been waiting for us since next year, this is something that, again, is electoral, means an additional electoral item for our youngest, where they can, that schools will get equipment and that it will be possible to implement at all levels, including regional schools for which additional funds have been allocated, which is extremely proud and which is an extraordinary step towards this transformation towards digital society, developing digital literacy. Of course, and smart use of all digital content because there is the greatest danger because many children use digital content, surf, and the safety of children on the Internet is particularly important on the Internet. And they should, as they say, learn to use that technology in development, in education, and tomorrow at work. And that's what happened today and today's opportunity, the situation with, not just us in Croatia, to be honest, but in the world, with the virus, where we learned a lot, we were forced to work both from home and use all the digital tools and things work. And then when someone tells me you can't, it's that old way of letting go of everything the way it was, it doesn't cloud the water. You can, you need to, and we need to move on on to this example to digitize our administration, and everything we've introduced now needs to be kept and taken a step further. And that's where we'll get the funds to raise our salaries to all civil servants because it's just natural drains and the best quality will stay and they'll be able to have even more pay in the retailes even in a reduced volume because it won't take so many people because someone can't tell me that we need the same number of systems today in this digital society 20 and 30 years ago. And unfortunately, it's always like that with us. And there's always over-inflatation, and we know why. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181184	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181185	The next club of representatives will be the HNS on behalf of which the respected representative, Stjepan Curaj, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181186	Thank you, dear Vice President. It's hard to be next now. All right. I wanted to say something personal to begin with, but I can't take this impression of performance before, but we're going to show one other policy quite different from that one. And that's what we've been hoping to show for these three years. Yeah, the HNS made it unimaginable, it's true. The second most difficult day of my life after my father's death was 9.6.7 years when I sat here for the first time or not for the first time, but for the first time in this assembly and from my colleague even the predecessors I suffered insults that I came out of every little bit and I don't know how to cry out of pain. Insults that didn't make sense of construction, but more than one scavenger over all that so-called. HNS voters who were then assumed to be gone. And yes, that decision was difficult, that decision questioned the party's further future and then wondered if it was worth it. I'll tell you responsible here, yeah, it was worth it and I'd do it again. For what? When we remove the stabilisation factor saving tens of thousands of jobs, Agrokor, the roll-up credit that is possible and further, the prevention of new elections, the current marginal right groups that had dozens of percentages at the time, the inability to work, the paralysis of all that was worth it because of the reform of education 2.5 billion kunas, worth 90% of European funds, because of the new Law on textbooks, easier textbooks, more digital content, information election classes required in the 5th and 6th basic and later, the reforms of vocational education, also funded by the European funds of billions of kunas, means our students of secondary schools will now, in the next few years, work on the most modern curriculas and the very conditions, increased the price of student training, investment in science of 2.5 billion kuna, the same from European funds, anti-corruption measures, the verification of this year's implementation of this year's budget is now in terms and the final year's budget, the final year's implementation of the budget, and the budget of the final year's budget. We introduced our initiative to fiscal balance those tax reforms so that our municipalities would first of all get that money, on our proposal, finance the resolution of the slide, the amendment on the financing of the water economy, we solved the problem permanently. Our tax proposals disbursement of salaries, even by my small contribution to VAT reduction proposals to basic supplies such as vegetables, meat, fish, children's supplies etc. II. The pension column I'm leaving behind, the proposal that now that you're retired you can raise 15% and we've strengthened it, we've introduced a new formula. Also as far as the Ministry of Construction is concerned, there are still subsidized housing loans of POS apartments, 50,000 families remain in Croatia as a demographic measure, with a project of energy renewal of more than 1400 hospitals, kindergartens, halls, public buildings, 17,000 households in buildings, and now families houses from their own resources are going to make it as easy. Yes, it was worth, e-license projects, faster, simpler and cheaper system of evidence, the introduction of... administrations etc., etc., protected tenants. When you ask me about the renewal law, we're done, we hand it over, and I would personally like this mandate to be him and voted by the ones who made it. Unfortunately, we could no longer influence this and perhaps leave another government with billions and billions of debts, especially on the run. But I personally wish we had done it, maybe we should have, but let it go to the soul of the others. And to some, it may be incomprehensible to colleagues that it's not the only policy-making goal to be in the Parliament, and if all of this means that we've been hit on the ratings, it's worth it. And all we're going to say is that we're also going to defend as well as all of this and we're not going to hesitate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181187	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181388	Madam and gentlemen, we begin by asking questions to the Government, or to an individual member of the Government, in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, Art. 132.-139. The current morning shall be held at the beginning of each session before the first item of the agenda. The first in line for asking questions is MP Ivan Pernar, who is asking the Prime Minister, Andrej Plenkovic. Here you go, colleague Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181389	Dear Prime Minister, the Croatian public is interested in why the postmortem of Sinisha Palma, head of finance in the town of Virovitica, which is under unexplained circumstances, is suspected, many, killed, after it was found out that 17 million kunas, or 16.9 million kunas, are missing from the town of Virovitica. The more the money is very large, the more the money has been drawn for years, and it is not clear to anyone how it is possible that no one has noticed it all these years and how it is possible for all the blame to be placed on one man and not to respond. In the report of the Ministry of Finance on the business of the city of Virovitica, there is no justification for the fact that another person has not established and checked the actual state of the giro account in the bank, at least when preparing the decision and signing the contract on the short-term debt of the city, as well as for the fact that one person has given absolute confidence and authority to dispose of the city's assets, in brackets, only one signator, in such a long period of time. Both at the time when he was a treasurer and at the time when he was head of the Department of Finance and Economy. It says, further, in accordance with the Budget Accounting Regulation and the accounting plan, the city was obliged to make a list of assets and liabilities at the end of each business year, among other things and to finance all the giro accounts of the city. At least then they should have checked the bank's cash balance with the state of bookkeeping of the city. So it's just that there's been a lot of leaks, the internal control system has failed, and as far as the city's finances are concerned, and as far as the autopsy itself is concerned, No one's ever answered for that before. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181390	Here you are, Prime Minister, the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181391	Thank you very much, esteemed president of HS. Dear MPs and MPs, I congratulate you all, here is the 28th anniversary of international recognition and 22nd peaceful reintegration of the Croatian Podunov. Mr. Pernar, as far as this case is concerned in Virovitica, everything you asked me today, as Prime Minister, are questions that should also be asked to the State's Attorney General and Croatian Policy. [[The incursion of President: Mr. Grmo.]] [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181392	Excuse me, Prime Minister. A fellow Grmoy, a colleague of Whitey's. What is this? ... So come on, please. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Comrade Beljak, please return to your post and do not disturb your colleagues, Mr. Grumoji. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You can't get a word in. You can't get your word because you've been misbehaved here, please behave yourself. ... I don't care. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here's my colleague Pernar. Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181393	So I must say that I am not satisfied with Prime Minister Plenkovic's reply, no one in their right mind would be satisfied with that answer, until today no one was responsible for the fact that the autopsy was not carried out, no one was responsible from the town of Virovitica for the fact that the money had disappeared, and the system had not functioned properly. And, crucially, Ivica Kirin presents himself as a very honest man, but he is being tried precisely for withdrawing money through the Fimi Media affair that he made contracts with Fimi Media under the orders of Mladen Barisic the HDZ treasurer, you know that, Mr. Plenkovic. And so, of course, I'm not just interested in the question of the autopsy and why no one is responsible for the irregularities in the city's finances or their management, but I'm interested in the answer to the question when HDZ thinks about returning 24 million kunas that he stole through Fimi Media or otherwise you still intend to claim that HDZ didn't steal any money and that you're all honest people. Because what you serve the Croatian public is that Ivo Sanader is like a thief, and you're all honest. Oh, yeah? Well, nobody believes you, Mr. Plenkovic, you're losing the election election. You have lost the election for the president, you have failed in the European elections, you are leading to a sunny Croatian state and you promised hills and valleys when you became prime minister, you have now taken over the Presidency of the European Council, but all this is Mr Plenkovic's great sadness, grief and misery. And I still can't understand 930,000 voters who supported you or your candidate in the second round of presidential elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181394	Thank you. Let's go to the second question, MP Tomislav Žagar again asks Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181395	Thank you. Dear Prime Minister. This is before I ask the question, given that today the Krapina-Zagorje County has declared Saddening Day, I am taking this opportunity to express my deepest condolences to the families of the victims in the House of the Elderly in Andrasevec, a truly terrible accident that has shaken us all deeply. This accident has raised a number of questions and I therefore refer the question to you because I believe that the answer to these questions exceeds only one resolute ministry. Namely, I'm just going to make some facts out of it. According to the European Commission's estimates in the Republic of Croatia, the ageing population is evident and an estimated one-third of today's one-fifth of the population will be over 65 years old, on the other hand poverty in Croatian society is present. A large number of citizens are at risk of poverty, especially those who are the oldest because of small pensions, and then those who need to care about them, so their children and grandchildren who also have small incomes because their salaries are low. The third problem is the public homes of the so-called. The state and county homes that we consider public homes that the Republic of Croatia has very little and waiting lists are huge. Of course, waiting lists for public homes are much bigger than in private homes understandably for many reasons, one reason is better care for those homes that are in the network and another thing is price accessibility for the reasons mentioned above. And the last point is, of course, a system that's messy and that's why it's unusual that a case like this can't be investigated in a few days. And my question, in particular, is, what are you going to do as prime minister tomorrow to start building public homes in the Republic of Croatia, decentralised homes by county that you as Prime Minister and Government as a whole do everything to make sure that these homes are available to citizens, if they are in their service, they can provide a quality service by their means, and they can't handle the market at all? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181396	Here's your answer, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181397	Thank you very much. Representative Zhagar, here I join once again and from this place express my condolences to the families of the injured citizens in this House in Andrasevec. As you saw on Saturday morning, about ten o'clock ago, we were also Minister of the Interior Bozinović and I at the scene of this great tragedy that struck a series of families, but we even gave a new picture of a question about homes like this in Andrasevec. The fact is that as far as the Croatian population is old, we also adopted the 2017-2020 Strategy, which is the Social Care Strategy for the elderly, where a number of funding from the state budget has been allocated, special care measures for older people, through the project “Save” led by the Ministry of Labour and Pension System, we have hired a large number of women over 6,000 elderly, middle-aged women, who are our jobs in rural areas where they are otherwise very difficult to return to the labour market. What you've learned from this case is this. First, both through the new Social Care Act and through more effective inspection supervision, we must first of all see if in such cases as Andrasjevac currently has more, as to whether the number of approved accommodation facilities corresponds to the real state, whether each of these facilities is built, arranged, adapted to the highest safety standards and also to the fire-fighting system. When we find this all together, and such homes as this have more than 700 in Croatia, then after recording the situation we will be able to improve both the legal framework and the operational control of these homes, because, as you know, the initial permits for their establishment are given by the county, the ministry responsible for this topic, and that the ministry of Bedekovic did not have any special permits or any other activities that it has given to this home, but in any case all inspection services, police, police will now do everything necessary to prevent similar situations in the future based on this case. This is unfortunately a lesson from this great tragedy that took place in Andrasevec or Oroslavje. What I can say is that all the protégés are taken care of in other homes as soon as possible and that we are from the point of view of what we could have done after that tragedy, we have done everything to ensure that they are taken care of without such a situation happening again and again and again, that the control system is such as to prevent such situations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181398	Here's my colleague, Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181399	Thank you, President of the Parliament. I am not satisfied with the answer because the Prime Minister, Prime Minister of the Government, did not directly answer my question what will the Government of the Republic of Croatia do to begin building public homes? It is indicative that there is no public home in Krapina-Zagorje County. We don't know how much this has to do with this accident, but the fact is the same, and that's what you said in your answer, that it is necessary to provide professional supervision of all homes, as soon as possible to sort out the system, it was not my question but more of a requirement that it be done as soon as possible, that all the homes in which the elderly are located be exposed to professional surveillance so that these cases don't happen. But what I think, which I wanted to warn you, can't regulate the market, can't actually enable the market to provide quality care for our most needed citizens because they are neither able to pay high prices, market prices, nor is the market that will be able to achieve it in the future because according to both the state of our health system and the ageing population, we can expect that the situation will be much more complex. In the area and my county there is no same public home, so what you would ask as prime minister of the Republic of Croatia is that as soon as you sit with the mayors, to make you respect the strategy that you have brought to the strategy and in the plan of the HDZ election programme, it says that it will be building homes, increasing accommodation capacity because public homes, institutional care in this way can allow citizens a decent age. These projects you're talking about and... and should be welcomed, however, they will not allow the ultimate goal and this is a dignified age for our fellow citizens especially these poorest and they are in the Republic of Croatia increasingly and this shows all relevant data. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, I'm not against having money to rebuild castles, to rebuild social homes, but money to build homes for older people needs to be found, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181400	Thank you. Let's go to the third question, MP Ante Bacic asks him of Justice Minister Drazen Bosnjakovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181402	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. The Honorable Prime Minister of the Croatian Government for one with ministers, here's my question to the Minister of Justice. Just about the Institute of Compassionation, we have now seen in the previous presidential campaign, it has often been mentioned that constitutional authority and the very mercy institute that the President of the Republic of Croatia assigns but here we know that you are as a minister but only the Ministry of Justice bearer of the very law of pardon, so I am interested in the very purpose and purpose of the law. Is this a step and a path towards empowerment and as a removal of that prerogative and self-authorization to the President of the Republic of Croatia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181403	Here you go, Minister, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181404	Thank you very much. Your Honor, we know very well that the Institute of Compassion is an institute that is in the hands of the President of the State and he decides whether to pardon or not. The aim of this law, which passed the first reading here in the Croatian Parliament, is to make the procedure more transparent and include the profession in it. By establishing an expert commission where we have laid down the law exactly the area from which these experts come or that it is psychology, psychology, we want the profession to actually participate and that the profession helps the president in a way that gives him an expert opinion in the pardon process on the application referred to in this procedure. Of course, we're open to talking and the president who's elected we'll consult, ask for an opinion before we get to another reading here in front of you, so I think we'll come up with a solution that will actually be acceptable to everyone but what we think is necessary, we need to certainly include the profession and make the procedure more transparent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181405	There you go, the obvious.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181406	Thank you, Mr. President. I thank the Ministers for their response, I agree with you and it is very important that a new president be involved between these two readings, to give his opinion regarding the new law but I believe there has been a lot of controversy about the pardon itself, that this is a good way to be an institute that will be very transparent and clear in the future and will be useful in the constitutional authority of the President himself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181407	The fourth question, MP Angelko Strick, asks Croatian Defence Minister Tommy Bear, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181408	Thank you, Mr. President. Since today we mark the Day of International Recognition of the Republic of Croatia and the foundation of an independent, sovereign, internationally recognised Republic of Croatia is the Homeland War, here is a question related to this topic. I refer the question to the Minister of Croatian Defence. In the term of the current government of Prime Minister Plenkovic, as well as you as Minister of Croatian Defence, great attention is paid to the dignity of the Homeland War and Croatian defenders. Thus, in this term, the entire Law on Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families, the Law on Persons Missing in the Homeland War, was passed. In the procedure, the adoption of the Law on the Declaration of Vukovar as a place of special homeland pitet, adopted a new Law on holidays, memorials and unworkable days in the Republic of Croatia, declaring November 18th the Day of Remembrance of the victims of the Homeland War and the Day of Remembrance of the victims of Vukovar and Škabrnje. In addition to these ministers, a year ago you announced that the ministry was launching a project to digitise archive materials from the Homeland War. The project is financed by EU funds, so I ask you to respond how is the implementation of the project progressing? How much material has been processed so far, and what dynamics are expected? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181409	Here's your answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181410	... in the term of office of the government, for the first time, the model of using EU funds to support the activities of the Croatian Defence Ministry. [[The speaker is not enabled. Speaker not enabled/]] The value of this project is almost 82 million kuna, of which 85% is funded by the European Social Fund. The project is carried out over a period of almost 6 years, with the project we started at the end of 2017, and the completion was planned in 2023. The goal is to preserve documentation from the Homeland War from the collapse and destruction through the collection, listing and permanent disposal of archive material. In addition to facilitating and simplifying the availability of documents by digitising archive materials from the Homeland War in order to achieve the legislation of prescribed measures and activities for Croatian defenders, it is important to preserve through this project the material that our history testifies and preserves for future generations. The amount of archive material to digitize is extremely large. The work began at 6 locations, in Split, Karlovac and Zagreb, in 2019. The programme was also launched within the framework of the MUP in Zagreb. 83 employees are currently working on the project. The additional work was to prepare space before the very digitisation process in the building, security and information senses. Of course we're satisfied with the dynamics of this complex project because so far it's been reviewed and processed 3.5 million acts. I believe that we all understand the importance of this digitalisation programme and that we understand the importance of this complex project because digitalisation refers to the most important part of our newer Croatian history. I also stress that through this project we send out a clear picture and show how the membership of the Republic of Croatia in the EU contributes to the implementation of projects and programmes of the Croatian Defence Ministry, which concerns Croatian defenders and the Homeland War in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181411	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181412	Dear Minister, I thank you for your comprehensive response, first of all, I would like to point out that the Ministry has just begun one of its work on your arrival, I can say on a scientific approach, on the subject of the Homeland War, i.e. Croatian defenders, and the first part was made according to the list of population, households and dwellings in 2011, and published in a publication titled "Demographic and socioeconomic features of Croatian defenders" from which Croatian defenders are not any privileged group, this is a continuation of this good work based primarily on facts and truth. What is most important, what is not recorded in digital form today as not existing, which is why this initiative is extremely important, it is important to keep this documentation from going down, and to be available to new generations, especially to be available to historians, both in the Republic and abroad. It's a fascinating amount that's been collected and processed so far and congratulations on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181413	The fifth question will be asked by the Vice-President of HS, Furio Radin, and it will be asked by the Minister of Management Ivan Malenica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181414	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It would be natural to refer this question to the government in general because it affects several ministries, and for simplicity I will refer it to one minister, and that is Minister Malenica, Minister of Administration. Issues relating to the rights of national minorities are usually boring by the time they have, while they have no international consequences, and even more so when they are so important that they can affect a certain balance, the balance of a particular coalition. Minister Malenica in this case is, as the new head of administration's portfolio, one of the collateral victims, I admit, this, this, this otherwise complex, complex issue, and it is actually the fault of the long-standing unhappiness of all Croatian governments to apply contracts between two otherwise friendly states, in this case of the Treaty on the Rights of National Minorities between the Republic of Croatia and Italy. Imagine, it was signed in 1996. And despite numerous warnings, he remained in a large part a dead letter on paper in a drawer. The Pacta sant servanda in the Republic of Croatia is much more common in phrases and flossulas than in terms of reality, at least when it comes to national minorities. I would like to emphasise the additional circumstance that this government has included the need to respect the contract mentioned in its programme and operational plan for national minorities, although two articles of this otherwise short, but very content contract, thank you very much for listening to me, which speaks of acquired rights, meaning Article. 2. which speaks of acquired rights and art. 3. which speaks of the extension of these same rights to the territory where the Italian national minority lives are in the first case in part, and in the second case completely Fully ignored [[Intruder: Thank you]] I'll continue later. [[Agreement: Thank you colleague Radin]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181415	You got it. Here's the Minister's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181416	I would like to thank President HS, Honorable Representative Radin, as regards the International Treaty between the Republic of Italy, there is also the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities and there is a Law on the Use of Language and Letters of National Minorities in the Republic of Croatia. However, in that part of the supervision of the implementation of these legal acts, the Ministry of Administration developed one, one application, that is the system, the e-System to monitor the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, which in its 2018 report pointed out, and speaking specifically about the rights of the Italian national minority and speaking about the administrative procedures conducted in front of the bodies of the local self-government unit that, for example, in Rovinj, about 500 administrative procedures were conducted in Italian, that the city was covered by about 30 administrative procedures in Italian, while in other units local self-government members of the Italian national minority were allowed to communicate in the Italian language, i.e. officials and in local self-government units, but also in state administration offices that existed until 1 January 2020, they were obliged to instruct the party on those rights. In particular, there have been no cases in which members of the Italian national minority would exercise this right in the report of the Office of State Administration, therefore with that obligation of notification of the possibility to apply those rights. I would point out that from 2013 to 2018 a total of 3,000 different beliefs have been issued through the Ministry of Interior in Italian. Following this, I must say that the Government of the Republic of Croatia will continue to encourage the protection and development of the right to the official use of the Italian language, especially through the implementation of the operational programme for members of the national minority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181417	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181418	Thank you very much. Of course I'm not satisfied, we'll have to meet to talk because you mentioned 3 laws including the Constitutional Law on National Minorities that are lower than this Treaty because the Constitutional Law on National Minorities is not constitutional law, but it's an organic law called because we wanted to be important to the world at the time, so we called it constitutional law. It says in the Constitution, it's organic law. So in other words, in Istria, without even talking about the Word, about the Rijeka area, bilingualism is in stagnation and regression. Art. 3rd Contracts shall not apply. Art. The 3rd Contracts say it should be extended to others, meaning other places where members of the Italian national minority live, and this is not happening. On the contrary, there's a regression going on. Time does not allow us to get deeper into this otherwise complex problem, but too often traffic markings occur, for example which are only in Croatian where they should be bilingual because the statutes of those places say so. There are problems in visual bilingualism and in many other areas. That's why I'm about to dedicate a five-minute presentation of our club's position on this problem, and as I told you, it would be nice to meet you so I can explain to you that this program is much more complex than what you want to show. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181419	Thank you. Now MP Zarko Tušek will ask the Minister for Demography, Family, Youth and Social Policy, Vesni Bedekovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181420	Thank you very much, esteemed president of HS. Honorable Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia with ministers. My colleagues and fellow ministers. As we have heard before, today in Krapina-Zagorje the day of mourning over the tragedy of the unprecedented proportions that occurred in the town of Oroslavje, the town of Andrasjevac in which six of the most needed in our society, our oldest, lost its lives in an institution that apparently, by all parameters, operated and operated and acted outside the framework of the law. It is as simple to me as a man, and it has nothing to do with politics, I really choose words that would not accidentally think that I am calling someone person, but as a man it is just amazing to look at at all and imagine that there is one system that is so arranged, that there is one body of public authority, and these are the counties in this case that issue permits for the work of such institutions from which there is no responsibility from their position to control the work of these institutions, nor have they tried to transfer or request any responsibility to themselves. But it's also amazing to me that no one in the entire system has ever noticed such an anomaly and that he didn't know at all that in one institution such as that, instead of 13 protégés, there are 45 protégés. There came the doctors of the home of health, these people were treated in both the Zagorje General Hospital and I can't believe that nobody noticed anything and that nobody had reported one of these, I would say a huge anomaly which unfortunately ended tragically and which certainly, when everything was looked at together, is not a unique example in Croatia. I'm going to ask you, Mr. President, just two, three more sentences.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181421	No, no, you can't. Time's up. ... You have two minutes later. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181422	But let me ask you a question, please. Can I ask a formal question at the end? [[Break president: Comrade Tušek, please finish.]] And my God, this is not just any situation, today is the day of mourning in Krapina-Zagorian County. Okay, thank you very much. [[/Intruder President: Ask a question. Here you go.]] Please, Minister, in a few words, say what you have done from the ministry's position at the moment to help with the situation that has happened and what as a society, as a community, as a policy and as a government we can do in the pro futuro time ahead of us to change this anomaly and do something good for everyone. our people. [[The incursion of the president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181423	Here you go, Minister, and I'd like to ask the MPs to stick to the time.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181424	Thank you very much, Mr. President HS. Honored MPs and representatives. First of all, given the day of mourning in Krapina-Zagorje County, I once again join the expressions to feel sorry for the families of all the mortals of the Family Home in Andrasevec, who, I will remind myself, was home owned by a natural person with whom the Ministry of Demography of the Family, Youth and Social Policy had no financing contract, nor was the home located in the network of the ministry, and the users who were located in the home were located on the basis of private contracts. The answer to the question of what has been done concretely, immediately after the tragic event all the protagonists at home are placed in the relevant institutions in agreement with their families. Part of the protégé is located in suitable homes, part of the protégé has returned to his family. On Monday, inspection supervision was carried out by the Ministry of Demography, family, youth and social policy. A solution has been made to close this house and a criminal complaint has been filed against the owner of the home to the competent state attorney's office. The same is requested by the ministry a detailed report by all counties on the situation in their counties related to both family homes and all other providers of accommodation services for elderly persons, the number of permits issued and all that is related to county intelligence, after which we will make a detailed analysis based on which we will have a broader picture on which we can continue to act. The same way that we do, with the analysis of this data we know, you also know that it is in preparation and the Government will receive a new Social Care Act, which together with its sublegal acts and rules, primarily relating to persons of age, will regulate the equalisation of criteria for family homes and for all other providers of the accommodation of older people and also in a more detailed, more quality and fuller way to regulate the issue of monitoring and monitoring of the work of such institutions, especially not only of family homes but also of all the institutions that offer accommodation. And I will also remind you that the Ministry of Demography, Family, Youth and Social Policy also encourages and extends a number of non-institutional services to enable the longer stay of our older people in the family, especially in rural areas, and here we have a whole range of services, from home assistance, living rooms, organized activities for older people, and I will also remind you of the project "Seve" in which 1.3 billion kuna is invested and covers services for 28,000 users and employs some 6,000 women who care about older people and persons in their homes. I will remind you that just as we must take care of the institutional accommodation of older people, we must also take care of outside of institutional services in order to allow older people to remain in their families as long as possible. Thank you very much. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181425	Here's a colleague of the Shower.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181426	... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181427	The microphone, turn it off, Minister. Turn off the microphone.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181428	I apologize to my colleagues and colleagues if I took a little more time to point out the importance of the topic and I'm probably partly under the impression of this whole situation and the tragedy that has happened. Of course, I'm showing respect for all the efforts that you as a ministry are doing right now, and you're extremely short on this place, and you couldn't even notice, or feel all the problems that this system has at its lower levels. But I just want to stress one situation just so much, technically one detail, let's say we're in this situation through a state-owned institution, and this is the Lobor city that has placed the protégés of this home which is needed after the tragedy that happened, and this institution of 300 protégétés has no doctors at the moment, while let's say some other institutions in the area of Krapina-Zagorje County with fewer protégés have doctors. Why am I saying that? Such topics are not a matter of political arbitration at local level, these are not political topics, these are life topics, these are concerns about our loved ones, the most endangered and I think that these topics should all rise outside the policy framework and any political vultureing, but take responsibility, because these are the key topics that our society and our community are having today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181429	Thank you. Now number 7, MP Davor Bernardic is asking Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181431	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, I refer my question to the Prime Minister, Mr Plenkovic. The latest case of multiple murders in Split has pointed to exactly what is our country's huge problem, which is mistrust in institutions. Yesterday's event, an attempt to extort bribes by entrepreneurs by a former police inspector just confirms what's going on in our country. And the citizens are rightly bitter and side with those who take justice into their own hands, which is certainly not good, because they see that the institutions that should protect them cannot provide them with it. And people have lost confidence in our country's institutions. They lost confidence in the police, lost confidence in the DORH, lost confidence in the judiciary, lost confidence in the government of the Republic of Croatia. Citizens can't take this injustice anymore, I can't watch criminals, rapists, abusers walk freely on the streets of our country. Citizens feel rightly insecure because the institutions that should protect them cannot protect them, they cannot provide them with it. So my question to you is, what exactly are you doing to stop this chaos and chaos in Croatia, this lawlessness?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181432	Answer. Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181433	Dear MP Bernardic, first of all, this generalization does not stand. Croatia is among the EU's safer members according to statistics. It's a comparative data, that's a first. Secondly, to distinguish from the context this case that happened in Split which I, of course, condemn, and in a certain way from what you say almost as if you are showing understanding of the attempt of anarchy and the taking of justice of your own hand. That's what we, as a government and as an institution of the state, are not going to allow. There will be no anarchy in Croatia. Croatian police rarely and below radar, and during the term of the government, carried out a number of operational actions that ended with the indictee, detentions, arrests by a number of criminal groups in our society, however. And today will be one press conference of one of our police administrations. Therefore, the job of the police who and this case as you have seen many others solved very quickly, only a few hours after this terrible crime took place in which three people died in the middle of the day in Split and died of long pipes. The work of the institutions must be strengthened, the work of preventing the eradication of those who are criminals, who are drug dealers, who with this monster most of our young people turn from a normal developmental healthy path to criminalisation, on the path of deviation and on the path of bad social phenomena is the task not only of the police, it is the task and the judiciary, it is the task and the education system, it is the task and the social system, it is the task and the health system, and it is also the mentality. I do not allow Croatia to be as it is today, this is a country that has had only 30 years of independence, 28 years of international recognition, today such as the beautiful label of anarchy, disorder and mistrust in the system, it is simply not true. Look at the statistics, only in Split, here I will tell you the data in Split-Dalmatia County in 1823 of drug confiscation, 171 persons reported for crimes related to drug crime. Therefore, to draw such conclusions from this case, which is as terrible as this second case of extortion that took place a few days ago here between Zagreb and Karlovac, unfortunately, are cases that occur in the area of crime. There are institutions that are competent to do this job, who work hard, who solve these problems. Can we also improve legal frameworks, any procedural, any material, I mean the sphere of criminal law and criminal procedural law? We probably can. Perhaps this repression can be more visible, perhaps people can get the feeling that sanctions are faster and more effective than we did, for example, to sharpen penalties in the area of fighting domestic violence and violence against women. This trail leads to our policy, but executive power cannot substitute the speed of work of courts, executive power gives framework, gives laws and gives tone. And on that trail, the activity of this government is very consistent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181434	Thank you. Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181435	Your Honor, Prime Minister. We all agree that it's not good when people take justice into their own hands, it's not good, but you haven't answered the question yet, you haven't said what you're doing specifically. Why? Because you're not doing anything at all. You said the work must be strengthened, but that's not what people see. See little what the citizens of the Republic of Croatia think about what is happening on Croatian streets, which is happening specifically in Split, which has recently been marked by violence, drugs, abuse. Look, look at what your own people think, instead of hiding in Brussels and in Strasbourg, running away from real Croatian problems. People have lost confidence in our country's institutions, people can no longer see this chaos, and that's why they're moving out the whole family. And you know very well because you have just blamed these people who have moved out of Croatia for their electoral failure and defeat, and they have evicted it dominantly from the middle in which HDZ is in power, such as. from Slavonia. You praised the great project Slavonia, you boasted of your demographic measures in order to actually confirm this statement that your demographic policy had experienced a complete fiasco and therefore the citizens of the Republic of Croatia rightly felt insecure. While you are strutting around in Brussels, Croatian citizens are finding themselves increasingly difficult to live on, feeling insecure, feeling increasingly unjust and unfortunately what they see, they see that your four-year term at the head of the Croatian Government can stand in two words, chaos and corruption.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181436	We are now going to the 8th question representative Bojan Glavasevic is asking the Prime Minister, Andrej Plenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181437	Thank you, Mr. President of the Parliament. Your Honor, Mr. Prime Minister. Since the beginning of your term, we have witnessed one perception of the constant decline of social standards in Croatia and the gradual disappearance of the rule of law. That's what we talked about here in the Parliament, that's what citizens talk about, a number of civil society organisations in both Croatia and international ones, and that's what you heard yesterday in the European Parliament. However, even before that we could hear you and your ministers practically roll your eyes on such claims, you persistently assure us here and the citizens that we don't know what we're talking about and that in Croatia it's actually getting better and better, that institutions are doing their job honorably, that ministers are professional, that they work in the interests of citizens and that our standards are getting better and better and you wonder how citizens don't understand it. My question to you is, do you see in this perceptional passage that I say, some connection between the disappearance of citizens' trust in institutions and the way these institutions function, or do you simply feel that there is some kind of unwarranted paranoia and panic in society? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181438	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181439	Thank you very much, Agent Glavasevic. So, you mentioned the perception, your predecessor wanted, in some way, to extend it to these tragic criminal events and de facto to glue the labels of this kind of Croatia as we do today in 2020, alluding to the unsightly, unsightly, to the fact that we chair the EU Council rather than as a kind of leader in the opposition being proud, to make a contribution, you to those discussions that concern Europe never come, never say anything, and I wonder what it would look like to be you in my place. That would be good to know. As for perception and reality, Honorary Representative Glavasevic. More than 3.5 years ago, Croatia was a deeply divided country. Your policy spoke while you were in the former government, "we or they", polarized, antagonised. What was our platform and our policy is to reduce divisions in society, ensure political stability for both Croatian people and the Croatian economy. That's what we've accomplished. We are now in the fourth year of office and when I compare what we did with these normal achievements that you had and it was normal to crash a two-degree credit rating, it was normal to charge Croatia for 70 billion, it was normal to have 40,000 jobs less, it was normal to freeze wages and pensions and later stand behind unions and pensioners as if you did something for them in the mandate, it was normal to bring lex Perkovic, it was normal to have a group that continued on that policy and today in opposition is able to write such illiterate tweet posts in English that would disgust anyone who has two clean ones. He'd never show up in public again if someone published such a thing. See, that's the perception. What our achievements are, Mr. Glavasevic, you have a country that has a healthy economic growth, you have a state that has such public finances that no one is deprived faster, no less public debt than we do, you have more total employment, more than the '90s when we were 700,000 more people, you have a country that has returned not only to an investment credit rating but which achieves extremely high quality results in the absorption of European funds and increases investment. You had 9% when we started, today 83% of the funds contracted, a country that strengthened its security defence system to a measure that was not visible, comparable at all, a country that did everything when it was a question of Croatian defenders, and you dealt with this topic, from a single law and a larger budget, strengthening the military, strengthening the police, guarding the border without razor wire and without barricades. You have a country that is here today, 28 years after international recognition, has such an international position that we could only dream of then and I must honestly say in time to date. It would be good to recognize that, to respect that. Of course there's still a lot of work to be done, the policy process and real life is such that we all promote it, but what I can certainly say, regardless of perception, looking at the facts, what it was, what we promised and what we did, Croatia is better today than it was. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181440	Thank you. We have two injuries to the Rules of Procedure, here's my colleague Bernardic. You're giving up on the Rules of Procedure? ... Comrade Voter, here you go. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181441	I think he's hurt. 132 but also a part that says that a representative in a work in which a representative can express his satisfaction or dissatisfaction with the answer given. Since the prime minister, repeated from session to session, when answering questions to one representative, looks back as in this particular case to Mr Bernardich's answer, I think you should have warned him. [[The incursion president: Thank you, time is up.]] And just one more thing, the Croatian Presidency of the EU Council but it is no thanks to the HDZ but has come to us... [[The incursion president: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181442	Order. [[Intruder President: Fellow Voter, please.]] Here, pure truth works. That's nice, and we're proud. [[Adversity President: Fellow Voters, you are using a breach of the Rules of Procedure, you get a warning.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181443	...but if any government were headed by the Republic of Croatia at this time, Croatia would preside... [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181444	Comrade Voter! Have a seat, get a warning, and please don't act like one. There was no breach of the Rules of Procedure. If anyone recognizes the Prime Minister's words, that's his problem. Here you go, colleague Glavasevic, you have the right to show off.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181445	Thank you. If I can just get the time back. Mr. Prime Minister, you've been in politics long enough to know that there's a lot in perception and that if the results of your work are not seen, if citizens don't see them, if you don't perceive them so you have a problem with it, because of that difference in perception, you lose the election. But it's actually another thing. I'd like to tell you how citizens see things. Citizens see that the health system is falling apart. Thousands of women are left without gynecologists because of the completely predictable retirement of two, two years of government, doctors, women and pregnant women, because their primary health care is becoming more and more inaccessible, citizens are concerned because they see that public health care system neglect is gradually moving towards full privatisation of health care. You and your health minister keep saying everything's okay and you're not doing anything. Citizens are losing their trust in the police involved in murky affairs, we have hundreds of witnesses, violence against refugees, the interior minister assures us that everyone is lying. Everyone but him, of course. Citizens are massively supportive of taking justice into their own hands because it is obvious that police and the judiciary are not doing their job, that crime is not being punished, however, to be supported at the highest level, but there is a minister of justice who sees no problem and does nothing. Citizens see Mr. Prime Minister that criminals in the Republic of Croatia not only go unpunished, but go best, they are a privileged class that hangs out with the president and ministers. You see, Mr. Prime Minister, it is not possible that your view of things and of how citizens look at things is possible one and the other, please rub your eyes, look again at the Republic of Croatia, it is your duty to represent the Republic of Croatia in which most citizens live, not just you, your ministers and members and members of your party.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181446	Let's go to question no. 9. Representative Stjepan Curaj appoints him Minister of Environment and Energy Tomislav Ćorić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181447	I would like to thank the Honorable President, the Honorable Prime Minister, the Honorable Minister, the Ministers and the Honorable Minister Coric. So, I want to take this opportunity this time to address a problem that unfortunately takes a year without the number of lives of our citizens. We're all probably still remembering the relentless events during the summer on board and the death of a certain part of the citizens, in this case tourists due to carbon monoxide poisoning. Carbon monoxide, as you all know, is invisible, odourless, tasteless, virtually undetectable, we know that, especially today and now in the heating season, a lot of gas consumption for heating is a latent danger to our citizens for the release of this gas, which according to some data up to 30 people per year, of which 30 people are injured annually. I therefore want to send here a proposal to impose the basis of the Law on the gas and gas markets. 5. guaranteeing the secure supply of gas or gas distribution and consumption to prevent all gas-expensive gas-sustainers from providing carbon monoxide detectors, precisely in that basic model, to prevent such unsatisfactory events, this is our obligation, and I think it is something that could absolutely contribute to a significant reduction in the number of victims and security and gas supply.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181448	Thank you, Minister Djoric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181449	Thank you, dear representative Curaj, for your idea or initiative, I consider the initiative to be indeed an incorrect combustion of carbon-like energys, such as gas, such as wood, has led and in fact continuously leads in certain cases to unwanted consequences, or to the death of citizens in whose homes such housings are located. This particular case you have listed, not even a household, so this is a security issue or a security issue. The idea of finding a solution for him in the Gas Market Act, I must admit interesting, we will consider it, so what we can do is, in cooperation with the Ministry of Construction, see how and through which legal acts we promote such a security initiative from the perspective of the Ministry of Environment and Energy really praises a valuable initiative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181450	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181451	I thank you, that here's the minister you just detected well, it's not just about the gas, I'm concentrating here on the gas market law, but it's actually one... The law and the market for oil derivatives and all that you have said is used as energy for the first time heating and where it comes to combustion, and I think it is necessary, with the change of these laws, to come to a solution that all those who provide a certain service of gas supply, gas distribution or other energy products have in their customers, their users, and even according to the Consumer Protection Act ensure the safe use of these energy products because we don't need to say more times how much, we certainly heard in the news, in the past period of our citizens suffer and I think that this one detector that will be placed in households first of all, but wherever we have spent, and even think in public places that it is what and the obligation to do so is simple, that this shifts to the basic model of costs to those of our citizens who pay for this energy and that our citizens have this security and that we can save even one life that we have made a great amount of security, so that we don't need to protect our citizens, so that our security, so that we can be able to be able to be able to protect our citizens and our safety, and our own, and our safety, and our safety, so that we can be able to protect ourselves. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181452	The 10th issue of MP Dragana Jeckov is asked by Culture Minister Nina Obuljen Koržinek, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181453	Thank you. Dear Minister, my question concerns one of the 3,000 devastated and destroyed monuments of the anti-fascist struggle. Namely, do you know about the initiative of the municipal authorities in Gracac to remove the mention of the markings raised in memory of 816 fallen fighters and 1836 victims of fascist terror, so that instead of being rehabilitated and restored, as proposed by the conservative department in Zadar and the police, I deliberately say the police are afraid for the safety of children, given that there is a playground in the immediate vicinity, instead of the monument being renovated and restored, it will definitely be, according to the decision, according to local leaders' decisions, targeted and deliberately destroyed. My question is, what are you going to do in these and similar ways, to stop these and similar situations?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181454	Here's the minister's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181455	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam MPs, first of all, as far as this particular question is concerned, as far as I know, and now we have recently completed a revision of the register regarding the monuments of World War II, the monument in Grazac was not registered as cultural well-being, it was not registered as cultural well. So, he, taking care of such monuments that are not in the register of cultural goods, cares about local self-government. So I'm going to check to see if, in any case, the conservatory department has given any suggestions as part of some broader thinking, but I find it hard to believe that this monument wasn't registered. But what I mean in principle should be said and reminded that, so here we are today marking the anniversary of recognition that during the Homeland War, a huge number of monuments were destroyed, deliberately destroyed during the aggression, cultural heritage was unfortunately the target during that war, and we have a case on the example of Dubrovnik actually first passed a verdict of the International Criminal Court where the destruction of cultural heritage was used as an argument for condemnation of war crimes. During the Homeland War, a number of monuments have been destroyed in some of our citizens' reactions, including anti-fascist monuments raised by Croatian citizens who fought during World War II. Today, for each monument we must have respect and we must renew it, if it can be restored, if it is not possible to restore it, then these monuments are either muzealized or at least documented to remain a trace. It's not possible to simply restore all these monuments. The resources we have at our disposal are far too small for the rich cultural heritage we have. I will inform myself of this particular case in detail, I say if it isn't, and I'm sure by what I know it's not about cultural good, so we don't have direct jurisdiction, I think since this monument as far as I've seen in the photos on the playground, so there's a danger to children, the monument is actually gone, it's just a postament. What you should probably suggest is to move it somewhere else, in a dignified way. Where there are and any documentation, any remains of local self-government very often approach as I have said to a partial or complete reconstruction or monuments or monuments or remains of the monuments as one witness of time. We in the register of cultural goods have 75 monuments from World War II and according to priorities, and according to the Culture Ministry's budget every year we invest that these monuments, as well as other monuments, be maintained and preserved.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181456	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181457	Thank you, Your Honor, I am partially pleased with your question. These places are historically important and they are not made up, art historians warn that NOB monuments are a number of symbols of society for a period of time. I can agree with you, but not that you are answering me by comparing the destruction of the monument during the Homeland War today when we are celebrating the completion of a peaceful reintegration process for which, just to remind me, the party to which I belong has made a significant, significant contribution and has participated to the greatest extent in the whole process. In addition, if these are all monuments, which are somehow a symbol of our common past and we leave in this case the will of local leaders alone, the question is what is being said about collective memory, about memory. The only thing that will definitely remain, though in short-term memory, but still in memory, is those successful local leaders who instead of visionary and construction decisions make those decisions that are being destroyed and destroyed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181458	Question number 11, MP Franjo Lucic asks the agriculture minister, Marija Vuckovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181459	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Prime Minister, respected minister, respected ministers, I would like to refer my question to the minister, one specific issue that is important for Croatian agriculture. Is it true that Croatian farmers receive only 70% of the EU envelope and how much money is paid in 2019? And is it true that in the next seven years' plan for agriculture, will there be a 15% reduction as announced by the European Commission? Of course I ask you a question, how will you and how do you intend to make certain protections for Croatian farmers? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181460	Here's the minister's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181461	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear representatives, therefore information that Croatian farmers receive 70% of their total envelope for direct payments is entirely guilty. In the media came a series of press conferences, one by serious political parties, and it's pretty weird how it could have been, here's no more expression, drummed. Croatian farmers have a financial envelope yearly for direct payments... of 382m euros, for 2020 we provided a budget of 387, slightly more than 387m euros, for the first time more than the basic envelope, of course using a partial transfer flexibility mechanism, but less funds than ever because we need investment from the Rural Development Programme. As for payments in 2019 they first exceeded 6 billion kuna, 6 billion kuna and 43 million kuna were paid, 5 billion and 600 were planned, but the spending of payments from the Rural Development programme was still going faster than planned, so we spent 400 million kuna more. Some 2.5 billion kuna has been paid for the Rural Development Programme around 3 billion kuna for direct payments and direct support for sensitive sectors to Croatian farmers, 150 million kuna for the Operational Programme for Maritime and Fisheries, and for the first time 298 million kunas of national funds are not contributing to funds. Of these 6 billion and 40 million kunas is a total of a billion and 400 million kunas, the national component of all payments. Also for 2020, more payments were planned than ever. As for the Rural Development Programme, we have so far paid 44% of the funding. As the payment order was prepared and processed for just over 400 million kuna in February, we will be the first operational programme in which payments exceed 50%. Finally, as regards the future common agricultural policy, the European Commission presented in May 2018 the first proposal for a total envelope for the common agricultural policy and envelope for the Republic of Croatia, according to the proposal the amount is somewhat lower but is not 15%. So direct payments in the seven-year period would be just over 2 billion and 500 million kuna, annually between 365 and 366, is about a reduction of approximately 3%, and the component relating to the Rural Development Programme would be about a billion 970 million euros, now it is 2 billion and 83 million euros. Therefore, the percentages of the reduction for Croatia are lower, but we are among those Member States that we consider, given the increased climate and environmental ambitions, that no budget for the common agricultural policy should be reduced and that is how we will work.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181462	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181463	I'm glad you just said these are really important words for our agriculture, for our farmers. But we see that some and the people and the newspaper provide incorrect data and in these difficult times for Croatian agriculture when we record real growth at all levels, we do not simply need such misinformation because it is visible from your telling, but from everything that comes to us from the EU that Croatian agriculture with all these incentives really has a future. Oh, God, that's the way it is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181464	Now MP Zlatko Hasanbegovic will question Culture Minister Nina Obulen Koržinek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181465	Respected. These days, we read about the preparation of the Rijeka multimedia artist Nemanje Cvianović to perform so-called "EPK" as part of the project in May. I quote the art intervention ‘Sculptures of objects of armored concrete in the form of a five-pointed "Memory to the Red River a self-defense monument" whatever that means. Multimedia artist Nemanja Cvianović, of course, has no intention of putting this lovely installation on Mr. Obersnel's home, but on the famous Rijeka skyscraper, otherwise the architectural work of the Turkish architect Umbert Nordia representative example of what is called the architectural modernism of the unique era of fascism. The architect Nordio was fortunate because in May 1945 he did not find them in Rijeka, avoiding the fate of more than 700 Rijeka citizens, Italians and Croats who were in peace until the end of 1946 subjected to court executions, for example, by the Susak parish priest Martin Bubanj or the Rijeka Mayor Ricardo Gigante whose remains were recently found in the Casta forest. Since the word skyscraper is not a private possession of Mr. Obersnel but a protected cultural well-being which, without the permission of the competent conservatory department, cannot be set up by the air conditioning system. My question is, answer me simply, will by your inaction allow you to perform this so-called installments or are you going to stop this aesthetic devastation by just one signature?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181466	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181467	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Representative. I read as well as you in the paper on the European Capital of Culture River programme, I would remind you in 2016 when Rijeka was elected European Capital of Culture, you were then a minister and probably well-known rules of this project, so the city chosen by its artistic leader, the project team, the government is one percent providing funds and they are designing the programme. The book is very thick, the program is very large and I'm going to return to what I answered the previous question. In 1990, we decided to live in a country that would be democratic and that would not censor artists. Today we mark one great anniversary, our international recognition, when we formally entered the club of democratic states. So, about what an artist in Croatia will think, how it will work, my deep convictions, I think that is shared by most of our citizens, that artists will decide, not some minister or some commissioner at any address. Whether or not something is going to work on a monument, a protected monument of culture, of course, if we get a request, we will consider it and that, taking into account whether or not such action will compromise the monument, as well as every time we make a decision. We are not engaged in inaction, we are involved in decision-making, we are engaged in preserving cultural goods, and we will do so in this case as well. So, you can repeat the question to me when and if such a request is received in the Conservatory Department of Rijeka, as far as I know, there have been no such requests, and on this first part of your question I think I sent you a message. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181468	There you go, the obvious. A microphone.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181469	You didn't answer my banal question. So, can a protected culturally well-place a multi-meter concrete star five-point, please do it for documentary reasons, not in writing, but in writing, and otherwise, I'm sure you'll ultimately use your power to make it impossible for this installation nonsense, for at least two reasons. First, because of Croatian Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, who, I am sure, is in the middle of his greatest life and political achievement, the rotating presidency of the UN Council, the EU, which, of course, is not yet avoided by any member. He will not go deaf about a number of European resolutions on the face of heritage and the consequences of communist totalitarianism. Secondly, there is also the position of the respected representative Furi Radin between the five-point and his formal position, who, in respect of the remains of his compatriots who have been represented in this Parliament for a quarter of a century, who has swept Yugoslav communism in the tracks and who today represent only a numbering relic, something like an individual protected cultural goods in the event of a highlight in the River of this pale-communist mark, I am sure, left the government's majority, therefore, please, answer me simply, preferably with yes or no in writing. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181470	Thank you. Let's go to Question 13, Representative Rezimir Varda, appointed by the Minister for Demography, Family, Youth and Social Policy, Vesni Bedekovic, please. Microphone, colleague Hasanbegovic, please turn it off, and you now turn on colleague Varda.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181472	The Honorable President of HS. Thank you. I ask the question to the respected Minister Bedekovic. In light of this tragic event, I would not like to repeat colleagues who have already asked similar questions, I am interested in something concrete. In fact, you have announced in your public address the tightening of the conditions for service providers in family homes. But then I'm curious about it from the point of view of a possible reduction in the capacity to accommodate older people. We're a growing nation, by the way. I also warn younger or young colleagues and colleagues here that in 2017 we also talked about the tragic death of the brother and sister Mitrović in Vinkovci, also because of the fire in the family house, about the fact that there is something wrong with our system. And it doesn't work. Dear Minister, your ministry and you personally will not be able to resolve these systemic issues on your own. For example, you say, extra-institutional family care. I'm asking you. Do the son and daughter who live with their parents have the right to paid sick leave to care for their father and mother as they do when they care about their children? They don't. So it's not just your question. Secondly, we have decentralised functions on local and regional self-government, and they have no money building homes. We've left everything de facto to the fullest extent market. So unfortunately for us this family home, I'm putting an emphasis on family because this wasn't family. Thank you. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181473	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181474	Your Honor, Mr. Varda. First of all, I want to explain what I meant by tightening the conditions. First of all, tightening the conditions means there are at least two elements, above all more high quality, more detailed and complete control and monitoring solutions for such institutions. We all agreed to that. Secondly, tightening the conditions implies equating conditions to family homes and all other providers of accommodation services for the old and powerless. Why? To raise and level quality and to ensure quality standards for all old people who need it and accommodation. When I speak and put emphasis on quality, and I believe that quality is extremely important, the goal of raising exactly the quality of services for old and powerless are above all better conditions of space and equipment, so material conditions and then the personnel structure. So more employees, more professionals and all those involved in caring for elderly and powerless persons, and in that sense, the need to increase capacity cannot, in my opinion, be a reason for reducing the quality of the service. We have to worry about that, why? Because the emphasis must be primarily on people, so on older people and certainly on their needs, and therefore an increase in prices must depend primarily on the level of quality. So you were talking about capacity, of course, when we talk about capacities, their expansion is certainly the responsibility of all stakeholders, and I agree, and it can't be solved by one ministry, and I agree with you, and I'm glad to see that this is a broader issue, and I'm glad that you spoke and I see that you're in trouble when we talk about capacities, that we can talk about institutional and outside of institutional services. When it comes to institutional services or housing in institutions or homes, I must remind myself that at the time of planning and programming this financial perspective, it was not possible to use funds from EU funds to build homes for older people and, therefore, it was going to strengthen support through decentralisation of local units that should invest in homes for older people where this investment could go in cooperation with the state, the state budget. I will remind you of two examples more recent, 2018. The Old City of Hvar, where a home was built with the help of the county and the Ministry of Demography, is also home in Glina with the help of the local community and the funds of the Central State Office for Housing. When it comes to non-institutional services, therefore, it is very important to extend beyond institutional services. Why? There is a part of our population and part of our old people, especially in rural areas, who simply want to stay in their homes, homes, families, at home and at their age, and at the cost of living alone and right here, they need outside of institutional assistance, so to worry in the house, living rooms, etc., and here I will remind you that 77 million kuna has been invested from the state budget and further from the European Social Fund 207 million kuna plus the project "Wish" funded by EU funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181475	Thank you. Let's go to 14 questions. Excuse me, Comrade Varda's testimony, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181476	Dear Minister, let me say that I am pleased in this sense in which you have announced the adoption of a new law, and we will believe, and we will personally engage actively in the debate. However, capacity will always remain a problem. What we transfer to the market, believe me, that's the result of the black market, that's the result and this home. Instead of 13 or 20, 40. And you have to do something about it. Second, cautioned, please pay attention to the monitoring. If the county issues a permit, there's no way to justify not knowing anything anymore. And you can't even justify acting only by invitation, on notice. So, and prevention on the one hand and the other. Monitoring must exist otherwise things like this happen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181477	Thank you, too. Let's go to the 14th question, Prime Minister Nikola Grmoy's representative is asking Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181479	Thank you. Respected Prime Minister, members of the government. I will not generalise as other opposition politicians, I will not talk about perception, I will talk about a concrete case and documents whose no one was responsible for illegally spent millions in Sydney and Washington even though we have a finding of the State Audit and a testimony from the Anti-Corruption Council of the Croatian Parliament, I remind you, your Ambassador Paro paid money to a person who did not meet the existing conditions for working in Washington but in 2018 you stated to my question that most often do not lead to any representations such as the one who reported this unlawful spending of state millions as well as cover-up in the foreign ministry inspectorate. On the day of your scandalous intervention, a solution has been issued on the rejection of a criminal application that the DORH was unable to resolve for a year, however, a new document was adopted in the House last week that made it easier to understand why the DORH rejected the criminal application and why it took him for that year. The new document echoes that the chief inspector of the Christmas 2016 ministry warned some diplomats in writing that they were silent about the information reported by the Sabelak diplomat, about the violation of the law in Sydney. This is particularly embarrassing because the inspector Christmas at the second testimony before the Anti-Corruption Council found that no one had seen Sabelak's application. So this 2016 application, however, was immediately seen by Inspector Christmas but did not carry out the inspection but sent an e-mail on the same day and warned others to remain silent about this information. Do you approve that such an inspector should continue to monitor the compliance of the ministry's laws key to the rotating presidency of the EU Council?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181480	Thank you very much. Here's your answer, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181481	Dear Representative Grmoja, I don't know what document it is, I don't know, these are details for which you will be answered in writing by Minister Grlic Radman, who was, of course, not the Minister of 2016 when all this was happening. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181482	It's obvious. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181483	I assumed the prime minister wouldn't answer anything when faced with facts and documents. This should have been respected by the prime minister of the Zoran Milanovic affair and Vesna Pusic, these embezzlements, these scams were happening in their time, but you knowingly agreed to protect their crime, perhaps it was the introduction to a large coalition, perhaps it was just friendly relations from that incubator at the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs, meaning on the day of your intervention the DORH rejected the application, and a few days later from the service was only the diplomat Sablek, the father of two girls who reported the violation of the law to the inspector as early as 2016, meaning but then, I said what happened, the e-mail informed everyone in the ministry, keep quiet about this information, you have consciously decided to cover up the crime from the time of Milanovic's government. What's worse in this whole thing like Monty Python, means the inspector who is suspected of cover-up, he himself determined the facts of his own responsibility, and the DORH rejected all Mr. Sabek's demands for testimony, so the DORH didn't want to hear at all. Sabrek can't, because your state's attorney Jelenic won't testify to him in front of the DORH, but he can testify while defending himself in the official court, and out of the grain closet every day they turn out to be growing skeletons like this inspector's e-mail. I will now hand you that document, that e-mail, this time you can't get away with not seeing an e-mail and then convincing the public that your career is based on corruption and honesty.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181484	Let's go to Question 15, Representative Gordan Maras asks him to the Prime Minister, Andrej Plenkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181485	Thank you very much, Mr. President, my question goes to Prime Minister Plenkovic and will probably surprise him when I ask him a question that we cannot absorb in the Republic of Croatia, which is that Zagreb is the capital of the Republic of Croatia and that unfortunately Zagreb and Zagreb are aware of the coalition we have in the City of Zagreb, so the city is choking in the trash, I know that Mayor Bandic gave a special order to clean around the prime minister's house, but the rest of the city is choking in the trash, the dumps are nothing almost on every corner. On the other hand, we have information today that air pollution in New Zagreb is catastrophic, that people have problems, especially those who are struggling with respiratory diseases, is in preparation for the abduction of public space which the HDZ also supports, the GUP adoption of 6.2. and my question is until when will you support your apparently most loyal partner, Bandic Mayor, without which he has no authority at the state level, nor at the city level, until you try to help Mayor Bandic in a way that you tried to make friends with state attorney Jelinić, so you personally sat down Mayor Bandic and State Attorney Jelinic to chat during the concert in HNKK, I guess that they try to agree how to get Bandic out of corruption affairs, meaning he already 6 g. enjoys the presummation of innocence, while our citizens receive their solutions in a year or two and you thus demonstrate the state of justice in the Republic of Croatia. My question is how long before Mr Plenkovic, how long will you be harassing the Zagreb and Zagreb women? You and Mayor Bandic? [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181486	Here's your answer, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181487	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Maras, I think this must be the 20th anniversary that on the current clock you constantly and repeatedly want to talk about a representative body that isn't HS, you have the City Assembly there, so you have to raise these topics there, so we've already learned that. As far as I can remember, you're asking me how long we'd be working with a partner? How long will you be working with Mr. Yuck? Tell me, would you mind telling us, how long will you be working with Mr. Whiteman? Let's hear it from the SDP, given that man wrote in not pidgin English, but in English, which he really is, is not worthy of someone who thinks for himself that he can be a representative of the people. I'd like you as the SDP who's building this coalition supposedly anti-corruption, nothing good, you're brilliant, brilliant, you answer me while you're working with him? Here, if we set things up like that, I'd like to know. As for this illusion of yours, which you said the mayor gave the order to clean up the garbage around my house, listening to you would have had a lot more to clean up around you, that I would say it would be good, except you're saying I really won't tell a lie, a lie or I don't know what to say, what to say, you're saying really stupid, that's not good, so that's one. Two, alluding what if I had personally determined the state precedents in the CNK, and listening to you, and some others who were able to do one event for which your party leader qualified him as a whisper or colleague who said that it would be of no importance to anyone, does not matter, the rotation of the chairmanship of a respected SDP colleague is important content, it is important to respect, it is important to influence, it is content, content, influence, respect. I wish the Croatian public could have enjoyed yesterday three hours of debate with representatives in the European Parliament, let's say, with your leader. I think that would be great, to be delighted, that the impressions would be the same, that Ursula von der Leyen would say exactly what she said about Croatia yesterday, and that you were in that place or that you would have had such a meaningful meeting with the entire college in a restored and completed NSK that you had the chance to chair. Therefore, what the public must know, your banalizations, your trivializations, the misrepresentation of the objectively great achievements of Croatia, are not these achievements of our government, I do not mind that you criticize us, it bothers me that you as a party want Mr Maras to make important achievements of the Croatian state at the 28th year of international recognition you have such an approach. It's bad in the heart, except it's evil and it's bad. It's the essence of your framework and you're all repeating it. It is not good for you and for Croatian society even less. I hope you will leave it as a concept, it would be good for you and Croatian society. We, unlike you who are consistent with Europe, have never set out to trivialise Croatia's achievements in Europe because Europe and Croatia is Europe, you must understand. You don't understand, it's seen if you've identified, adopted and produced anything. As for the co-operation in Zagreb, it is at Zagreb level and there to ask questions.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181488	Here's your answer, Comrade Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181489	To begin with when you listen to the man your answer would think that you are essentially opposed to cooperation with Bandic, but here are the guards Mikulić and Prgomet have kidnapped your control. You can't think. So behind you and your words stands without the conversational support of Mayor Bandic and the citizens must know that. Plenkovic equals Bandic, if we have now forgiven ourselves in the presidential elections very soon we will be in both the city and the parliamentary and you can no longer hide behind anyone. I'm sorry what you're copying Mr. Brkic, and I can see that you've started copying and plagiarizing certain attitudes, so these are Mr. Brkic's views, so maybe here's some new collaboration to wake up, so Croatian citizens will follow with interest. On the other hand, you are talking about the EU presidency as some supreme achievement. It's like it snows tomorrow and we say the day after tomorrow we're gonna have to go clean it up. So that's our turn, it's our turn, and it's your shame and shame for Croatia that the pillar of power is yours, and all those who come to Croatia need to know, the man who has the indictments no longer knows how many of them are, and what I'm sure is that an ordinary citizen can't avoid justice for six years like Mayor Bandic does, it can only be because you stand behind him, what the Croatian judiciary doesn't do their job and what you're trying to connect Bandic and Jelenić with these fines, I guess, to soften relations. So that's something that Croatian citizens need to know and what we all have to fight against here. And you're angry, of course you're angry with SDP's behavior because the SDP won the election. Well, maybe I would have been angry if the Croatian citizens hadn't looked and seen what a disastrous policy you represent. Thank God the citizens decided to choose Zoran Milanovic and will send you to.... Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181490	Thank you. Let's now go to 16 questions, MP Petar Skoric asks Deputy Prime Minister and Interior Minister Davor Bozinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181492	Thank you very much. The Honorable President, the Honorable Ministers of the Interior and Deputy Prime Minister. Since 1 January, the Republic of Croatia has started its presidency of the Council of Europe and of four key priorities that will focus for the next six months during the presidency. I would point out those concerning security, so Europe that protects, Europe that is particularly influential in segments concerning cyber security, migration, strengthening resilience to hybrid threats, Schengen, but there are also issues of strengthening internal security, including preventing the spread of content on the Internet that encourages discrimination, violent extremism and terrorism. All these things appear in different forms and in our country, so unfortunately we are witnessing here and in the past days that they are encouraged by individual irresponsible representatives from this High House of the Croatian Parliament who insult all Croatian patriots and defenders in full, so that when we talk about European standards and values, the parties with whom they are in the coalition, as well as the Human Rights Association, as well as only the State Attorney's Office, should respond to such matters because of discrimination against hate speech and violation of the Declaration of the Homeland War. Since you are all the questions mentioned in these priorities related to migration policy, Schengen, internal security directly concern the MUP, can you answer what this ultimately means for both Croatian police and Croatian citizens themselves and is Croatia ready to fully implement these standards in Croatian society? We heard here in the introduction that individuals object to the Croatian police for the treatment of migrants, and on the other hand all the assessments we have from the European Commission are just the opposite and give a very high and professional assessment to the police. Therefore, I ask the question, will these priorities affect the withdrawal of additional funds from European funds? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181493	The esteemed representative of the coat of arms has raised the breach of the Rules of Procedure. What article of the Rules of Procedure was injured?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181494	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear counterpart Škorić injured Article 238. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament have also diminished all MPs sitting here because they are unable to read correctly from paper that the Republic of Croatia has taken over the presidency of the EU Council, not the Council of Europe. We chaired the Council of Europe two years ago. These are different institutions, Mr. Škorić, and then just before you read, at least prepare yourself and study the matter you're going to talk about.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181495	My fellow coat of arms, you have exceeded your time, and you yourself are aware that you have abused the institution's injury to the Rules of Procedure. I won't give you a warning, but don't do it, you lawyers shouldn't be doing it. Right? Well, now we'll hear the reply of the Honored Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181496	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Your Honor, Mr. Representative, I must admit, a very broad question will not be simply to that answer in such a short time, but I will try to keep as precise as possible. So, the fact is that Europe, which protects one of the priorities of the Croatian presidency, has serious tasks in this framework of the MUP, is primarily related to the protection of the EU's external borders, in this case, of course, Croatian borders towards non-member countries through the overall relationship with the issue of migration. Then, of course, there is the issue of interoperability of information systems that will benefit and benefit the Member States' police, the withdrawal of the European Funds and the strengthening of the Union's civil protection mechanism. If I were to replicate who's reading, who's not reading, then I'd say we pulled almost 300 million euros from different funds for the needs of exactly the security of the Republic of Croatia. So, funds some of us haven't even read before. So I'm not saying that they didn't want to withdraw that money, but they didn't see it exist because they didn't read it. You yourself said that some spoke of the violence of Croatian police against refugees. As much as we repeat in the section not only of the public but politics here in Croatia will not be recognized by what is fact, which is that refugees are not migrants. And that is exactly what Croatia has managed to clarify its position in this matter. This is why we get recognition from Member States that have both direct and indirect benefits from the work of the Croatian police. That is why we are given additional funds, and that is why, among other things, we have been given the green light to enter Schengen which is certainly a contribution not only when it comes to people's travel, but also how a great contribution to the Croatian economy, to Croatian tourism and so on. But we are talking about the issues and the work that we are doing, especially now as the chairman of the EU Council, which some, who are concerned about the mention of Europe that brings us more than 80% of the total public investment in Croatia. Not that they didn't work, they didn't see, they didn't read, they didn't have time. To withdraw EUR 300 million in 2 years from one period of 1. Seven. In 2013 until our arrival in the MUP equal to 0, that's a question for the public, that's a question for both the critical and the investigative public, why is that, because they don't know.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181497	Thank you. Dear Representative Petar Škorić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181498	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, here is a lot of clarification and we expect these successes in withdrawing European funds to be even bigger after the current Croatian Presidency, and I am glad that you have also provided answers regarding the discrediting of the police in the Croatian public who are trying to stand up all the time, but here in terms of its European role you pointed out that the Croatian police in terms of migrants are very responsible and professionally doing their job. Such an assessment, so we also received from the Schengen commission, as well as through Angela Merkel's statement when she was last in Zagreb at 12 months last year, that Croatia is ready, that the situation is OK. We also had an assessment of migration commissioners in the 10th month of last year who said that we meet all the conditions and that Croatia is correct in protecting external borders, in accordance with the law, and also when the last time the Commissioner arrived, who also made a positive statement about all this. It is therefore inappropriate to create an atmosphere and to talk about chaos, corruption, that such statements try to create a complete vision and change reality in Croatian society. So, it would correctly be a little bit more arguments than we've heard from you here, so, not those who haven't pulled anything out of the European funds to complain to us today. And speaking of creating and spreading disinformation and various forms of special war, I think that here in this high home it would be time to open the question and to pass a regulation, a law that would also prevent anonymous posts on social networks that are very often covered by various agents from different services and individuals who spread Lies, slanders and insults and quarrels of the Croatian people. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181499	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by the esteemed representative, Ivan Celic, to the Minister of Health, Prof. Milan Kujundzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181500	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, according to Croatian HZZ data, 23,000 people are rich annually from some of the malignant diseases, about 11,000 people die each day, so about 30 people die in the Republic of Croatia from some of the malignancies. When she spoke about her political priorities, EU Commission President Ursula von der Leyen said that access to adequate healthcare is the right of all EU citizens. The new Commissioner for Health and Safety of Food Mrs. Stella Kyriakidou announced a European plan to fight cancer. We had some of our MPs, Mrs. President. Dubravko Shuic, current EU Vice-President of the Commission, who spoke very often about this issue in the previous EU Parliament's meeting, is now being discussed by our representative Tomislav Sokol. I am interested in what Croatia is doing, the health administration in the context of the EU Council Presidency in this area, and when can we expect the adoption of a National Plan to fight cancer in the Republic of Croatia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181501	The reply of the respected health minister Milan Kujundzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181502	Dear Mr. Representative Cellic. Thank you very much for asking. Namely, given one of the biggest challenges of modern civilization, but also of the Republic of Croatia, already at the beginning of this government's mandate, we set out to develop a National Programme against Cancer. We have gathered from Croatia the best who know, not those who talk, so those who know medicine, we have gathered them, we have created a National Programme against Cancer, we have gathered friends from the world who have made a review of our national programme and we have reached the final stage and it will see the light of day at the government's session in the next month, two days. However, without waiting for the entire programme, we started at the start of this government's mandate with early screenings of cervix, breast and colon cancers in other two large areas that are a major cause of mortality, a major cause of money spending and human pain, which is prostate cancer and lung cancer. With lung cancer, last night we presented here in Zagreb, the first in the world with the presence of the best experts from Europe, Canada and America, where we will be the first in the world, with all the existing several pilot projects where we will try small doses of CTs in smokers, namely, smoking is 90% of patients with lung cancer aged 50-75 and those who in their family have an increased incidence of lung cancer because lung cancer has a certain and genetic predisposition. That's why he shows up in families more often. So that's where we started, we presented the program and he's moving into 16 Croatian hospitals these days, and that's what I talked to the lady about. Kyriakidou who will actually follow what happens with great interest in Croatia so that probably other countries follow us. Of course, we didn't just stop at that, we have a lot of problems. Namely, in the diagnosis of cancer, any, we had a problem which so far had only one private company monopoly so she had PCTs, and now we're going, this government and this goes into the realisation of the purchase of 4 PCTs in the hospitals in Zagreb, Split, Rijeka and Osijek, to have modern appliances with high sensitivity and to reduce costs for patients who have malignancies. These 3 years, those who are following in a little more detail, you will see that we have very quickly followed the adoption of Croatia's latest forms of treatment from malignant diseases, which unfortunately entails major investments, and what we are planning to do in a hurry, one of the weaker points that we have, these are linear accelerators, so that in a program that is made up, planned and supplied by new linear accelerators, so as not to wait for radiation, so that these radiations are in modern methods, which is more effective for our patients. So, when everything is summed up, we haven't stood for one moment, and this government and the future HDZ government won't stand but will work, and those who will talk, let them talk.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181503	Dear Representative Ivan Celic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181504	Thank you, Mr. Minister, I'm pleased with your answer. What I would like to point out, too, is that yesterday I had the honour to attend the National Program of Breaking and Early Discovering Lung Cancer Inhale for Life. It is a very important role of the media and media support in all these national media campaigns and you yourself have said, therefore, that every 4th cancer is related to smoking in these 30 years of Croatian independence, unfortunately we have only had two national anti-smoking campaigns and I think that despite all these efforts and large financial resources that are being invested in early diagnosis and adequate treatment of malignant diseases, the emphasis should be on prevention and there is a significant role of the Croatian Institute of Public Health and County Institute for Public Health, so in developing preventive activities, concrete fight against smoking, in order to make the figures better and to make the situation in the Republic of Croatia better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181505	The next question will be asked by respected representative Branko Hrg, Environment and Energy Minister Tomislav Coric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181506	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Since 2010, respected ministers have started activities in the Republic of Croatia related to agglomerations. Then that period since 2012-2016 was one of such significant delays in these projects and the realization of these projects. Back in 3 years, there has been a significant launch of a large number and signing of agglomeration contracts across Croatia. I am pleased to see that in the area of the second constituency, which I come from where I have been following that three agglomerations have already been signed, Koprivnica, Đurđevac and Bjelovar but I am interested in what is with the agglomeration of the Križevci, therefore the only one of that group of agglomerations is not signed, so I wonder if you have information about what stage it is and when it can be expected to sign and agglomerations for the Cross because, of course, as for all other parts, it is extremely important for the citizens of the region.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181507	The reply of the respected Minister Tomislav Ćorić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181508	Thank you very much, Mr. Hrg, for your question, so I will take this first part as actually commending the ministry's work over the past few years. Indeed, at this point, we have 54 projects signed for the construction of water-communal infrastructure in the Republic of Croatia, in all counties a few days ago a project of agglomeration of Split-Solin was signed worth a billion 790 million kuna and the total value of all projects that should be implemented by the end of 2023. It's 22 billion kuna, it's a huge job, first of all for our construction operation and I hope they deal with it successfully. As regards your county, the fourth agglomeration, or agglomeration, the Križevci submitted their application package to the implementing bodies 1 and 2. According to the information I have, for this agglomeration, there are comments on this application package the days before Christmas and it is expected that the project holder of the Watercommunal company which is actually an investor to make comments or to respond to comments in the context of the revisions will then be sent to Jaspers or the Ministry of Regional Development as our managing body and in this context I do not see any reason that during this spring, so during the first quarter there will be no signing or approval of funds at the level of agglomeration of the Crosses. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181509	The next question will be asked...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181510	He can just...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181511	...respective representative, and I'm sorry, I'm sorry, the answer of the esteemed representative of the House.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181512	Well, you don't have to watch this, and it's not a little commendation, it's a little commendation because I said I've been following those programs since 2010. And what I'm saying is the actual situation, so one period during the government's kukuriku was a huge stalemate, only a few part-time projects were realized, now it's one such big swing and it's certainly very important for the entire Republic of Croatia because it's more balanced regional development since it's been deployed throughout the Republic of Croatia. So in this area, it's about a billion and 200 million kunas, just these four agglomerations. Here, I'm glad you gave me this information, it's important and, of course, for the public to hear it, I'm sorry that the agglomeration that took place first in preparation, here in this area will be the last one signed, but what's there is, important that we get to that end, or start that realization, and here you go on doing so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181513	The next question will be asked by respected representative Domagoj Mikulić, Minister of Environmental and Energy Protection Tomislav Ćorić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181514	Thank you, Vice President HS. Dear Minister Ćorić, we are all together to witness major climate change that results in both droughts and floods, extreme colds, heats, and even declines in agricultural yields that ultimately affect our daily life. I really want to believe that we are all together aware of the possible consequences in the future and therefore it is necessary to encourage public awareness of climate change, to encourage this topic with the aim of including all of us in reducing pollution and reducing the consequences of climate change. In view of the fact that at the end of last year, the new European Commission adopted a very ambitious European Green Agreement, the so-called European Green Agreement. Green Dill, one of the main objectives of Europe becoming Europe's first climate neutral continent. What I'm interested in, and I'm convinced all of our fellow citizens is that you, as a minister or your ministry, are undertaking or planning to do exactly what you intend to do about fulfilling the ambitious plans and objectives foreseen by this Green Deal? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181515	The reply of the respected Minister Coric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181516	Thank you very much, Mr. Mikulic, for your question, but also for the introduction that you have actually given to answer this question. So, Green Dill or the Green Agreement as you said, the document is in which, in my deep conviction, HS and the broad Croatian public should be discussed today, tomorrow in the months that are coming because it is a document that fully determines the future of the European continent in terms of the functioning of its economy, but also the overall European continent as such. It's something I'd like to point out anyway, and I don't think it's recognized enough yet at this point. Why am I saying that? Because the paradigm promoted by the Green Agreement or the Green Dill, the paradigm of green or the paradigm of climate neutral, i.e. circular economy, in the context of EU funding in the future of the '21-'27 operational programme. is actually a paradigm once again that will determine the lives of all EU citizens. Such a document is shown, it will be a platform for all other sectoral policies at EU level, bearing in mind all sectoral policies, and EU legislation adapted to this document. What is a good fact is that this document came out just before the EU Council Presidency, and in this context, what I would like to stress is that the Ministry of Environment and Energy has fully agreed its objectives for the presidency with one such paradigm, thus preserving biodiversity, the transition to a low-carbon economy, the transition to clean energy in the coming period, all of which are fully compatible with the paradigm by which the EU will function over the next few decades. Our objective of climate neutral economy in 2050. is something to be absolutely insisted on and no Member State will be exempt from activities towards achieving such a goal. This is why the Energy Strategy of the Republic of Croatia, our example of the Waste Management Act, which is currently in the works and which you will see, I hope before the first quarter of this year, but also our Climate Energy Plan, so a whole series of documents that have come out of the Ministry of Environmental and Energy Protection are going towards affirmation, and that would be the fat of pure energy produced from renewable energy sources, CO2 emissions reductions, environmental protection, waste management and all of those good things that for a small open economy such as the Croatian economy, of course, assuming that we are flexible, and that we are trying to be, provide a chance to take a few quick steps and reach the most developed part of Europe. I'm sure it will also be recognised in the National Development Strategy, we're working on it, but also on the Operational Programme 2021-2027, where we're about to insist in this direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181517	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181518	I thank the Honorable President of the Parliament. Climate change presents the biggest challenge of the time we are living in, and it is this ambitious Green Deal package that represents the greatest opportunity. I am therefore pleased to hear from you ministers that the ministry is thinking and carrying out activities and doing everything possible to combat climate change because we are all in the best interest to realise all these envisaged expectations within the Green Deal, so, if possible, more. So I express my satisfaction with your answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181519	Thank you. The 20th issue, MP Pedja Grbin asks Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181521	Thank you. Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister. In Orahovica, the City Committee of HDZ launders your party's black funds. That's what police don't respond to for years. At Pleternica, the HDZ representative takes the money to hire defenders, and he built suites in the 60th instead of being in jail sitting here with us in the Assembly and is still asking a representative question today. There is a growing problem throughout Croatia with the abuse of intoxicating drugs, which your government is responding to, by abolishing the Office for the Prevention of Drug Abuse. All over Croatia, we have a problem with organised crime, instead of the police dealing with the problem, you send it to the border to harass refugees. And that's not just what we're talking about here in the Croatian Parliament today, you had to listen to yesterday in the European Parliament as you listened to a completely inappropriate response from your colleague, a member of the European Parliament Mr Sokol, also from HDZ. But that's not all that's going on in Croatia, the chief of police is threatening traffic users, driving 100km/h over the limit, it's being covered up. Only when the media finds out the government reacts and then what does it get in the end? A trial closed to the public. Mr. Plenkovic, you're talking about security, and the citizens of the Republic of Croatia are not safe anywhere from the street to the unfortunately nursing home. You're talking about anarchy, and it's all your fault. So I ask you, will you get off the clouds where you are and do something to solve the real problems of Croatian citizens or are you the problem you, HDZ and the Government that you are headed?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181522	Thank you. Before the answer, Prime Minister, we have a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Comrade Lucic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181523	Thank you very much. Mr. Grbino, please don't tell lies and lies. 238, where a representative insults another representative. And I really don't understand where you got that information? The Croatian judiciary and you who sued me personally and insulted me have proved that there is not even a trace of the truth that you are talking about. That's all fiction on your part. And as you can see, I'm sitting in the Croatian Assembly today proudly, proudly and proudly and of the lies you're telling are lies and lies most common. Shame on you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181524	Thank you, fellow Lucic. My colleagues and colleagues, the fact is that a colleague of the coat of arms did not mention the name and name of the representatives. Just a little bit, but the fact is that prejudgment of guilt is not appropriate to the MPs and that anyone we place in prison is not correct in my opinion and I ask that we avoid such things and that we do not do so because we are not the judicial authority here but representative and legislative authority, and that is, in my opinion, very ugly, so please do not do so. Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181525	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. coat of honor. As far as your delusions are concerned, there are very simple and clear principles. Anyone who commits any crime must answer for it, no exceptions, no protected, no one is above the law. Most of the cases you mentioned here, at least for some I didn't have to admit or hear about, I don't know, said Rakovica, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know. So the system works, there's no anarchy. We've already had an answer to an earlier question from one of you, no, there's no such anarchy. What you want to do with your political activity is to create an impression, a perception of which one other representative spoke about as anarchy, that nothing is worth anything, that I understand you there. It means that I was you and part of the parliamentary majority who supported the government with all those normal achievements we talked about earlier, I'm going to repeat them once more because people need to know that. We have paid 2.5 billion of your Uljanika guarantees for ships that have not been built, and thus achieved a budget surplus of all four billion, 4.5 billion, thank you Zdravko, so 4.5 billion. Your achievements, frozen wages and pensions. You supported union education on reform "67 is too much", a law that you have passed. The SDP passed the law to work until 67, 2038. Even the representative of HSU, I didn't know it then, the other day I learned it was Deputy Minister Mrsic then and then people wake up from some strange dream, 7 years later and organise a referendum against themselves, against themselves. Against reform, for example, which increases pensions, which brings pensioners back to the labour market, which also has demographic measures for mothers because it allows them to grow in pensions. A wider portfolio of pension funds. And your achievements from your duties, from the fact that you were unable to take advantage of what you received from EU membership in a normal and active way compared to what we did, are significantly different, they are significantly different. And we will try to make the Croatian public see what you left and what we did. I agree that perception is important, but in the end the facts will remain, the numbers will remain, the higher wages will remain, the pensions will remain, everything will remain in achievements better than it is. That's what the key is. And for all of these elements that you're talking about, it's all being processed, it's all going through, it's not things anyone ignores, it's clouding, it's pretending to be gone. And unlike these colleagues of yours, I see that you are even following the debates in the European Parliament. These colleagues of yours think that it's all irrelevant, that it's something that sucks, that it's a routine, that it doesn't matter to anyone, that's the impression that you're leaving behind, that your party leader and two other, three MPs who have come forward. That's not good. And as for our arguments, we, unlike others, did not build a razor wire at the border, did not build a barricade, we trained 6,500 police officers who kept Croatia from illegal migration. So it will be and will be effective and will respect our regulations and European standards and international conventions and will interpret anyone who has a question to check what we're doing. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181526	Thank you. Before fellow coat of arms, we only have a bit of a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Comrade Maras, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181527	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Prime Minister injured the 238th article, completely ignoring the issue and concrete examples of corruption and criminal action of the HDZ, gave totally unsatisfactory answers that make a man wonder at all what he's saying and how he says it, as if he's totally executed. The story of the Government of 2015, which the Prime Minister of the Croatian citizens elected as Croatian President, Mr. Prime Minister, so what are you talking about, who are you arguing with, with the citizens, give it to yourself The people of you... [[Agreement: colleague Maras.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181528	Comrade Maras, I thank you for your intervention, and that was the abuse of the Rules of Procedure, please sit down. Please sit down. You won't judge how someone will answer the question of a representative. He can keep quiet, he can say whatever he wants, so this is the answer to the question, and the citizens will assess whether that answer is good or not, and not you. No, this isn't about the subject, this is the answer to the parliamentary question, so there's no topic here, that's not the darkness of the agenda, this is the answer to the parliamentary question. Here's a colleague of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181529	Dear Mr. President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, I have no problem with the way Mr. Plenkovic performed. In fact, I am happy about the way Mr Plenkovic performed because his performance has been different, for example, since Mrs Grabar Kitarovic's appearance in the presidential election campaign, only because he did not promise a salary of 8,000 euros in the rest, it was all the same. This performance by Mr Plenkovic was the performance of a man whose failures were blamed by everyone but him. He can't talk about his successes because these successes are gone, so he goes back years and years and years and talks about the already absorbed topics. If we're going to talk, at least for one thing I'm grateful to you, you admitted that for this unfortunate Oilman and your government were giving some guarantees, and that these money went unfortunately to the wind, which is why they left, because you haven't been able to do anything about the Oilies for a year, that you let the processes go through with their unfortunate flows, that you didn't show up at the assembly and voted for the proposals of others, so the court had to appoint management, but the Oily is not the subject of today's debate. The topic of today's debate and the questions I have asked you is, is it time for certain changes to take place in the Republic of Croatia that will remove a problem called you, Mr Plenkovic, HDZ and your Government? I think so, and I'm sure most of the citizens of this country share that opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181530	It is now up to representative Branko Bacic, who asks the Deputy Prime Minister and Defence Minister Damir Krstic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181531	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Prime Minister, members and members of the government, I ask my question to the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Defence, Mr Krstic. Dear Ministers, our fellow Croatian army is watching through three segments, I would say three images. It is the first to address its fundamental task of defending national security, protecting territorial integrity. The second image is seen through the involvement of the Croatian Army in numerous international missions and the third very important picture through which Croatian citizens see the Croatian army is its engagement in the fires, when the forest is cramped, in floods and numerous other elemental disasters. Therefore, according to public change studies, the Croatian Army is one of the institutions in which Croatian citizens have the highest confidence. And this trust with the Croatian military is the result of the work of this government, and you yourself, Mr. Minister, and because of the fact that in the term of this government, many laws have been passed that define the conduct and national security of the decisions of this government, the Croatian army has been transferred from Vukovar, from Ploč, from Sinj, from Varazdin and Pula. And on the other hand, what is very important, in the term of this past 3 years, has been returned to the dignity and dignity of the Croatian soldier, among other things, a number of material rights have been increased and some new rights introduced. And for this I congratulate you and the entire government on the engagement that restored this dignity of the Croatian army. I am interested in Mr. Vice-President of the Government what will you and what are the plans of the Croatian Army and what is the Government planning, what are these new projects that will strengthen the Croatian Army?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181532	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181533	Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, Mr. Bacic's respected and respected parliamentary representative. Thank you very much for asking the question, so as you yourself said, the Croatian Army is a guarantee of peace and security and Croatia keeps a strong and powerful Croatian army. Since the start of this government's mandate, we have been systematically engaged in strengthening the Croatian army, equipping Croatian soldiers. From the beginning, we have strengthened the material rights of the Croatian soldier. The Croatian soldier is the most valuable part of the defence system. We assured the Croatian soldier that he had a field supplement, a guard supplement then a supplement for separate working conditions, then we increased the fees for voluntary and military training, therefore many of these measures have been taken to make our Croatian soldier more satisfied. Then we gave our Croatian soldiers new contracts that our soldier can be sure and that his family can be safe. In addition, we clearly worked on a new operational schedule for the Croatian Army. As you know, we returned the Croatian army to Ploče, then Sinj, Vukovar, Varazdin and recently returned the Croatian army to Pula. We have done all of this to be closer to the people and that we can always help the people in trouble and you have seen many times that Croatian soldiers help the people in trouble, if they are floods, fires and all other activities and that is our task. We have strengthened the ties between the Croatian people and the Croatian army that were created in the Homeland War and there is no strong army without the support of the Croatian people and the Croatian people always gives support to the Croatian army. And what is most important now and what we are focused on is equipment, continuity of equipment and modernization of the Croatian army. We started with the Croatian Air Force, modernising helicopter 171 SH, at the end of last year we started the process of replacing the eastern platform with the western, these are two new Black Hawk helicopters plus two new helicopters that we buy from the United States, you saw that the government has started and in the new process of obtaining a multi-purpose combat aircraft, this is a strategic issue important for the state, the state itself has to secure control of the airspace and the state that is able, that state has a future and I believe that the Croatian government will do everything to maintain combat aviation. Then there are projects that are related to strengthening the Croatian Land Army, modernising Patria, arming Patria with a 30mm cannon, an anti-armed guided system, and then there are projects to strengthen the Croatian Navy, so we are careful to strengthen all branches of the Croatian winning army evenly, and finally, a strong Croatian army, this is our mission and we are doing our utmost to strengthen and modernise the Croatian army and once again, thanks to all soldiers, officers, officers, tenants, officials on all these results because these are the results of the entire Croatian army system, clearly in the mandate of this Croatian government.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181534	Thank you. There you go, the obvious.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181535	Thank you, Mr. President. I am pleased with the answer, Mr. Vice Prime Minister. In fact, the strength of the Croatian military and the strength of the Croatian police are an important reflection of the Croatian government's reflection on the protection of national interests, sovereignty and statehood. It is a fundamental feature of the work of this government and it is only one of the successes of this government, which, for example, colleagues from the SDP do not see. They can't see. What they do not see, which they do not want to see, is seen in a number of economic, mathematical indicators that are read not at the level of the institutions of the Republic of Croatia but at the level of the EU institutions and at the level of international institutions as much as in each segment, so, if you will and in the segment above all, very much done in this mandate. With your commitment and advocacy of this government, the splendor of the Croatian army from the Homeland War was restored which was forgotten, which was not and I am convinced and I am sure that the newly elected President of the Republic of Croatia, Mr. Zoran Milanović, commander-in-chief of the Armed Forces, will recognize and be pleasantly surprised by the Croatian army compared to the time he left the prime minister's post in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181536	Now MP Drazen Barisic will question Minister of Labour and Pension System Josip Aladrovic, please come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181537	I thank the President of the Croatian Parliament. I welcome the Prime Minister, Vice President, Minister and Minister. So my question goes to the Minister of Labour and Pensions, Mr. Josip Aladrovic. We are witnessing that the labour market is very dynamic and that it needs to be proactively monitored and modelled in order to enable rapid and efficient but long-term results, especially when we talk about young people and those who are more difficult to employ. The current indicators of the labour market in Croatia talk about record statistics that depend on the source and the methodology, ranging from 5.9 to even 5.7% of unemployment in this year, which is, we must admit very optimistic for all of us. At its meeting of the Governing Council at the end of last year, HZZ adopted new conditions and means of using the means to implement employment measures whose implementation therefore began on the first day of this 2020. In measures of active employment policy, therefore, this year, it was planned to replace vocational training without establishing a working relationship with the traineeship measure. So, a professional training measure for work without establishing a working relationship has been implemented for 9 years and has opened up for many young people the possibility of working, the truth, without establishing a working relationship and other legal rights, but without it, they could only be on the market. It is likely that evaluation and practice have shown that its effects in today’s economic recovery are not the best and that they are not both stimulating and even discriminating the working population, but also the age population, affecting the dignity of young people, but also the denivelation of the market. So the question is why do you think traineeship is better than professional training?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181538	Here you go, Minister, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181539	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Barisic, thank you, Agent Barisic, thank you for asking. So, as you pointed out in your introduction, new measures of active employment policy came into force as of 1.1.2020. These measures exactly as you have noticed, they want, they have intensity and will certainly do so, they will strengthen the traineeship, compared to what it has been so far, so within the measures that we could see through professional training without a working relationship. We believe that traineeships should be strengthened precisely because of the dynamics of the labour market, because of positive indicators that we can see on the labour market daily and because traineeships in relation to professional training without a working relationship make quality conditions for the employee himself, for the worker himself, and for all those who do not have enough work experience. What is the desire and intensity of the government is that as many contracts as possible are formed through working relationships and we are certainly, we believe that through strengthening and strengthening the traineeship compared to professional training we will have positive effects. What is important to note also, through the traineeship measure, HZZ co-finances in the real sector wages and transport costs with 50% and in regulated professions, in public services and up to 100%. We believe that this will bring the labour market back to life, that we will enrich it, and that we will provide better opportunities for all those young people who enter the labour market for the first time. I would still take this opportunity to remind myself that over the past 3 years, over 6 billion kuna has been allocated to active employment policy measures, and that is certainly one of the reasons why employment and unemployment indicators are the best in the past 10, 15 or 30 years, even if we are talking about the number of unemployed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181540	Here's your answer. There's no obvious. Thank you very much, so let's ask 23rd question, Agent Ines Strenja, puts it to the Prime Minister, Andrej Plenkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181542	Your Honor, Mr. Prime Minister. My question will be a little quieter. I'd just like to clarify some things. So it's been a month since the Supreme Court decided, or has given its opinion, that the proceedings so far, the case-laws, that doctors, so this one wins the processes because they've been wrongly paid overtime, and this month has continued with that same practice. Therefore, the wrong overtime of doctors who have the right to special working conditions and pay increased liability is still paid. It's a very high cost, so it's a counter-zaconite payment that continues. We talk about justice very often in a negative context, but the judiciary here has done its job relatively quickly. I'm interested in what you're going to do because it's big amounts, and we're not talking about the backlogs that go up to maybe a billion and a half kunas that the healthcare system is obliged to pay off to doctors for all that work out, as you know doctors do more than three million hours overtime every year. So, what are you going to do and are you going to start, given that such an opinion has already been adopted, whether overtime will be paid to doctors, or their wages, they deserve?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181543	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181544	Thank you very much, Mr. Strenja-Linić. He introduced us to a narrow cabinet by Minister Kujundzic and the government's competent ministry will propose appropriate measures of other activities on this matter so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181545	It's obvious. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181546	I'd like to warn you of a timeline because it's very important in this case. Why? Even though the Supreme Court has adopted such an opinion, hospital administrations continue to pass on to the second-degree, means with their complaints, making it even more difficult for them to be in a position because of the costs that hospitals will have to pay off from their limits. It's very high amounts, and all of this is actually taken away from what needs to be used to treat patients. So it's not harmless at all. For a very long, very long time, in both two recalls, Minister Kujundzic said, the problem has been discussed. During a very long period of time, the agreement was provided by trade unions to agree on how the backlogs would be paid. That's not what you wanted to talk about. Maybe even by making a deal, to avoid court costs, to avoid all that is on top of the salary amount, something that shouldn't have been paid. Perhaps it could have been reduced in several transactions, so far it could have been resolved. So, we still have this entire debt to be paid to doctors, who are very high and we also have a situation that is now illegally paid to doctors every month. The problem with health care is huge, so I believe that you are aware that the situation is not as great as it seems. Besides hospitals that have a huge funding problem, we have a problem with primary health care. So what you're talking about and that's a lot of specialization being awarded. At this point, over 600 primary healthcare doctors will retire within 5 years, only 160 specializations are scheduled, so no one will have to replace them and already 230 are missing. and people over 65, 70, so the situation [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] In health care, it's not great and let's start with legal payoffs to doctors. [[Intruder President: Thank you, fellow Strenja.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181547	Let's go to 24 questions, dear colleague Zeljko Jovanovic asks Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181548	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr Plenkovic, these days you have been hanging out intensively with your European colleagues, and I hope you have talked to them about some of the problems facing Croatia and which the European Commission points to. In fact, the European Commission, in two consecutive reports in a very short space, negatively assesses your government's struggle with corruption and thus confirms the opinion of citizens that your government, after Sanader, has gone down the most in corruption problems. In the European Commission's annual assessment of reforms in Croatia, I quote "the fight against corruption, especially at local level and in public enterprises, one of the main reform measures that is completely lacking in Croatia, the risk of corruption remains not particularly addressed at local levels and in state-owned enterprises, the legal framework for the prevention of conflicts of interest and the regulation of lobbying, as well as the ethical code for parliamentary representatives", finished the quote. Mr. Prime Minister, how did you explain to your European colleagues that according to the quoted report, your government had scheduled for an anti-corruption trial and that your main ally was the mayor who confirmed the USKOK's indictment of a number of corruption misdemeanors and that half of your ministers had to leave the government on suspicion of conflict of interest and corruption? Tell us, Mr Plenkovic, why did you tie your political destiny to the immoral corrupt governance model of the city of Zagreb mayor and the multiple USKOK defendant precisely for the corrupt misdemeanors for which the European Commission calls you in its latest report that I quoted?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181549	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181550	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Jovanovic, you see the National Council for Combating Corruption as far as I know then it would be good for the public to say exactly what report it is? Do you know what document, in which process and in what procedure did the European Commission, within the Committee on Economic Policy, mention these two things? So, two things, public companies and local self-government. So, you and many others try to create such a balloon around as if there were some special report on corruption in Croatia on the agenda of the European Commission. The document has not reached the level of the commission's colleges at all. This is the attitude of the services that help in the context of a process called the European Semester, which shows where more can be done. So these are facts, it would be good if the public knew and understood. So that's the first thing. Secondly, at no time, not for one second or for any part of the agenda, this topic was the subject of talks with any of the European Commission's colleagues, the President of the European Council and the European Parliament's representatives except for some of our brilliant ones who appeared there. So all the rest of what you're saying right now, we can simply ask the Minister of State Property, Mr Banozic, to explain to you a little bit more how this ministry for all companies, or all the societies in the majority state-owned, made a code of conduct and special acts also adopted an action plan and changed the statutes precisely to combat corruption. So the competent ministry dealing with state property and the work and management of companies owned by the majority state-owned has taken measures that we have said we will do. Here you have Minister Bošnjakovic who takes care of the overall implementation of action plans to fight corruption. The percentage of measures taken by the minister was 83%, if I recall correctly, of the last report you presented to us. Therefore, trying to raise that topic beyond all proportions is your political position. What happens, we don't defend anyone, everyone who has the slightest illusion needs to be cleared up, that's our attitude all the time, that's what I said before, there's no untouchable, there's no protected, everything checks out, everything checks out, everyone's competent, and these are other institutions, not executive authorities are independent, professional in doing their tasks on any subject, on any subject, and so it will continue to be. Therefore, trying to show this in the way you speak is politically motivated, what we are doing is improving all the elements that we are doing through the European Semester and through the National Reform Programme, the Convergence Programme, the Action Plan for the European Course Mechanism II, our Government Programme and finally all these action plans to combat corruption. Therefore, it is not an issue that we are not actively dealing with, on the contrary, we are actively dealing with, we are dealing with it. The phenomenon of corruption has unfortunately not been eradicated in any country. There is no Western democracy or democracy perhaps still in the process of strengthening its institutions which can be feared that corruption is nowhere, unfortunately there is. She'll be with us and in the future. And of course that doesn't mean that all of us who need to take steps, that we don't have it, that we're not going to take steps to make it less, that those who do it, that we sanction it. Finally, the law that we passed last year, which applies to the whistles, strengthens their position, strengthens the position of those who, within a system, will tell and signal here, is a problem, without fearing for their workplace. So we're working on it engaged, without any forgiveness to anyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181551	Thank you. Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181552	Thank you very much. Mr. Prime Minister, you've already ignored a part of my question. I was just quoting the European Commission's report that it is not said to be an opposition party's position, which is therefore the European Commission's report, which only confirms citizens' opinion. You do not have to advise me what the National Council should do, we are intensively doing, we are trying to change how much we can perceive citizens about losing confidence in all institutions, but unfortunately we are not doing it because of the behaviour of your government, your key allies in this assembly where you reflect your majority of voters who have changed completely what the citizens have told them, to prevent you from being the one leading the Croatian government, to maintain this majority with the chips of the jumper, and citizens see it. For nothing you have spoken here nicely all in gloves, the citizens have completely lost confidence in the Croatian Parliament in the Croatian Government in the function of the president led by your member, the citizens have shown that this trust is something that bothers them the most. We hope that Zoran Milanovic will restore confidence in the first institution in which he can, it is in the institution of the president of the Republic of Croatia, and would suggest that you help you, as an unsuspecting person, to help yourself, to help HDZ, to help Croatia break up that immoral coalition with the chips of a jumper who has been accused of precisely corrupting the citizens of the largest city in the Republic of Croatia and to give the citizens a chance to decide on a new majority that will restore confidence in the institutions, which will restore confidence in the institutions that are completely torn apart. You may not have noticed because you have been dealing with too many European issues lately that the social system, the health system, the police system, the justice system are practically in chaos and citizens no longer trust any of these systems. It's the most difficult consequence of your government.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181553	Let's go to Question 25, Anka representative Mrak Taritas asks Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181554	Thank you very much, President of the Croatian Parliament. Your Honor, Prime Minister. We bear witness to the fact that our health care and Minister Kujundzic, unfortunately, is a very common cause of dissatisfaction and citizens and policies and professions. In addition to the systemic problems that only accumulate without any ability or knowledge to solve themselves, we now see at the micro-level or level of individual personnel and their positions that there is a total mess and a dramatic disregard for regulations and good practices. For some time, the public has been witnessing the case of the Deputy Director of the Hospital of the Sisters of Mercy who, after the fight at work, and by unanimous decisions and the Committee for Internal Affairs and the Working Council of the Hospital should have been replaced. But that didn't happen. It did not happen because straight from the cabinet of the minister first sent a message to the board of directors, and then it changed the administrative council, i.e. the president of the board of directors, by sending a message sent by the minister that it was part of a broader decision, so some broader story so that later the media would discover that the shift was subsequently placed among some changes in hospitals and was not part of the plan that falsely tried to convince us of Minister Kujundzic. What is interesting is that the other day, the former president of the Croatian Medical Chamber said publicly that the same doctor, Minister Kujundzic, pressured him and the employees of the Chamber to issue a license without which she worked, which is said to have failed to meet the conditions. Prime Minister, when will you finally start cleaning up the health disorder? Will you examine the reasons for the repeated interventions of Minister Kujundzic for individuals other than all rules, good customs and end such a practice?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181555	Thank you. Please, let's just stick to the weather. Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181556	Thank you very much. Madam Representative Dark Taritash, you are entering individual cases, I do not know the details, nor do I think of talking about it here in the Croatian Parliament. It's kind of a question that if you want a written answer, the Ministry of Health will send. What we know is that we are just when you mention the Wine Town Hospital, i.e. As part of our government's activities, the Sister of Mercy hospital made decisions on huge investments in this hospital, to improve the quality of one of the KBCs in the city of Zagreb, right in that hospital. It was a government decision that referred to me not knowing exactly how many health institutions where they were either changing or further appointed by members of the boards of directors. Therefore, the whole process, and especially in those hospitals where there are large investments such as KBC Rijeka or KBC of the Sister of Mercy, makes a lot of sense in the logic applied by the Ministry of Health, the competent State Secretarys are actively monitoring the implementation of projects approved by the Government, which are financially demanding and which need to improve our health system because ultimately our entire policy aims to improve health care, its availability, its quality. And among other things, since we have already touched the health care several times, I will only repeat that in the term of our Government there has been an increase in the amount of funds for the topic which has also been politicised by some actors and in this Croatian Assembly for particularly expensive medicines to billions and 400 million kuna. The Croatian state gives a billion and 400 million kunas for particularly expensive medicines. That's the answer to one question that when you ask him in public and perceptive as well as many others, it turns out that we don't give anything, we don't give anything, and we give a billion and 400 million kuna. Go back a little bit into the budget frameworks, so you'll see how it was in the years before our government, it's practically almost, I mean 1% of the budget around, so that's what this government gives you for people who are in particularly difficult circumstances, and as far as these details are concerned, anything that needs to be given to you by the minister in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181557	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181558	Thank you very much for your response, Mr. President of the Croatian Government, I hereby express my dissatisfaction with this response for the simple reason that your associates will nevertheless pay attention to your attention to the fact that what is happening at the Wine City Hospital or the Sister of Mercy Hospital for the simple reason that the media has really been charged with the fact that, that there has been a fight and the result of that fight, was indeed behind it and responsible, what the Committee for Internal Surveillance decided that the Deputy Director should go away and that then Minister Kujundzic took the matter into his own hands, falsely representing the public that it was some kind of human decision that was random and instead of looking at such images in public and, and what we had the opportunity to see that the President of the Governing Council had to go, it is actually talking about how Minister Kujundzic manages the resort, talking about how he normally manages certain solutions in this country. We had opportunities after the presidential election from you to hear a message that with the new elected president who, our fellow citizens, had chosen, had a hard co-habitation, and I would have this concluded that with Minister Kujundzic, you have some soft co-habitation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181559	It is now up to representative Ante Prenic to ask questions from EU Regional Development Minister and funds Marko Pavic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181560	Thank you, Mr. Pavić, for joining the final year of this government's mandate, the Government that announced radical shifts in regional development policy or a reduction in regional diversity of the Republic of Croatia. At the end of 2018, a package of laws was adopted, the Law on an assisted area, the Law on Islands and the Law on the mountainous mountainous area, came into force 1.1.2019, so we have a year of laws that are in force here. Has anything changed? Absolutely nothing has changed and people are still moving, mainly from the mountainous mountainous and assisted area, which is confirmed by the prime minister the day after the election results and the defeat of the lady. Kolinda Grabar Kitarović. But as I am most angry and concerned as a man who comes from a mountainous mountainous area, in the law itself you had a legal provision defining within 6 months two concepts that you came here before the Parliament, which you represented, it is a mountain product and mountain card as a public document that would allow certain privileges for the inhabitants of the mountainous mountainous area, 6 months ago it passed, specifically at the end of 6 months 2019. My question of life for residents of the mountainous mountainous region of the Republic of Croatia is over 200,000 inhabitants, can you tell me what a particular mountain product brings, as defined by the mountain card, which the inhabitants of the mountainous mountainous region of the Republic of Croatia will have? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181561	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181562	Thank you very much, distinguished MPs Pranic, the esteemed president of HS, Prime Minister, MPs, ministers, what this government has done and if someone has done something for regional development, it is this government. When we sum up total outside European funds, only national funds in the last 3 years, we come to more than a billion and a half kunas, including funds for islands, mountainous mountainous areas and assisted areas, when we add up the funds from 2020 to more than 2 billion kuna, the government spent in regional development in its 4th year. 560 million kuna, therefore a significant investment. When we add to that the results and tax reforms where more than 2 billion kunas remain for local and regional self-government units, we see how much resources have gone to regional and local self-government units. In addition, the significant European funds this government has greatly improved, the agreement is over 83%, and we are coming to the conclusion that the Republic of Croatia is a major construction site, a construction site that is now benefiting our citizens in these areas. The government also pointed out Slavonia's program, but here you come from the Dalmatian Mountain. Also 7 ITU cities and 5 small cities that have assisted areas in the next financial period will be expanded, one of these areas will be the Imotski area, another area of Metkovic 120 million kuna. These laws have certainly moved towards further development and islands and mountainous mountainous areas and assisted areas, many things have improved, provided legal frameworks for strategic planning, at the advice for Baranja-Srijem we have launched a territorial strategy for Slavonia-Baranja-Srijem, I believe that a similar territorial strategy will be made for the Dalmatian Zagora. As for the mountain product you say, it will be made on the basis of a Croatian island product which is a very successful project, which brandes all common island products and based on this product, I believe that the rules will almost be completed for other Croatian regions as well. Therefore, this very government invests in regional development, additionally in the next financial period exactly in the Dalmatian Zagora we invest, 120 million kuna area around Imotski, 120 million kuna area around Metkovic will get through small cities where their leaders can right now target the resources that citizens need most in the field. So, on our part, significant steps have been made, four times more investment than in regional development, than the previous government, and all the other things and suggestions you have, we will be very happy to listen to how we can contribute even better to even regional development. In the next financial envelope, the prime minister also highlighted the issue of cohesion policy, the height of the financial envelope where we are also fighting for national interests in Brussels, that this cohesion envelope is as large as possible and that Croatia has as much funds for cohesion as possible in the next financial period and that we have a uniform regional development of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181563	Thank you. There you go, the obvious.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181564	I am absolutely, Your Honor, dissatisfied with your answer, specifically asked you a question. You have a roof law on the hill-mounted area of yours, you have the provisions of an article at the end of the law that says, on 36th, that you will pass the regulations, define the mountain card and mountain product. You didn't do it. I don't really know what you're doing at the Ministry of Regional Development. You're telling me a story about six cities around Imotski, about Metkovic, about certain programs. Do you know where Vrgorac is? It's in between. And I'm not like the town of Vrgorac got into that program. Why? Maybe because I'm independent? Because the Neretva valley is mostly HDZ in power, most of Imotski is in HDZ power. The question arises why the town of Vrgorac, for example, is not, and borders both. As far as the mountain-mounted area is concerned, I don't know if you know it, Minister, you're heating up in a warm gas office here in Zagreb. The region of the Dalmatian Zagora, Gorski Kotar and Like have no energy. That's why they heat up more energy. Life is extremely expensive, the standard is the lowest. Schools are closing. Doctor, it's hard to find and you're talking to me about some investment here. So look at the reality of what it is, look at how many young people are moving out of that area of Croatia. You will create reservations without people if we continue to run regional policy towards 200 thousand Croats living in the area of the Dalmatian Zagora, Like and Gorski Kotar. Maybe that's not what you're worried about because there aren't so many voices out there, HDZ because there aren't so many people. I'm worried about that, really. And I would really like these next, I don't know, 8, 9 months left in your term to do something at the Ministry of Regional Development, that the Ministry of Regional Development doesn't remember by the expensive Mercedes and the cheap PR.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181565	Now let's go to the 27th question, Representative Beljak, asks Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181566	The Honorable President of HS, the Honorable Prime Minister. As I've asked many times, and I didn't get an answer, I want to ask you again. It's about the once popular hotel-bath complex Schmidten in Samobor. To all of you, me, and to you, Prime Minister, a document entitled Institutional Crime has arrived in state and judicial bodies and institutions. The same document was reportedly sent to the EU institutions, according to my information. I'm not going to qualify those actions for almost 15 years and for which you as prime minister, of course, are not responsible, but the final result of all this, the result of these long-term problems could be direct financial damage to the RS budget in the amount of, I believe you know, more than a billion and 200 million kuna. Not to mention the indirect financial damage the city of Samobor is suffering because hotels and bathing areas are not only in operation for 15 years but are, in fact, torn to the ground and are now there, but in the meantime, the forest has grown. Personally, as the mayor of Samobor and as Parliament's representative, the memos arrive every day, asking and asking citizens, but also from potential investors to react and appeal to more instance because there is nothing I can do about it as mayor, so that it can finally be resolved in one way or another. Apparently damaged party, the investor is willing to come in person, although they have sent you countless memos and explain what criminal actions are allegedly done within state institutions. So I ask you, well-intentioned, can you as Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia do anything in this, in these A few months' term of office, how many months do you have left, can I just finish, please? [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] set up a committee or committee that will listen to all sides and can you help with your position to finally clear up the matter and that those at the state level [[- Incursion president: Finish. But quickly.]] They're missing, and apparently there's a lot of them, so that's what they're up to. [[Intruder President: Thank you, colleague Beljak.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181567	Thank you. You've been over 20 seconds. Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181568	Thank you very much, Mr. Whitey. As for this topic regarding Schmidten, I, like many Zagrebers and Samobors, remember very well Schmidten while it worked and it was a nice field trip to Samobor and I personally have been there many times. We've touched this subject several times already here in HS, it's being taken into account by the Ministry of State Assets, the DORH, all of which are involved, essentially, one legal dispute that lasts 15 years. It's not a political dispute. It's a legal dispute. As far as I'm concerned, I can accept whoever needs to be heard, but the real solution to that problem, as far as I'm concerned, is in the legal domain. And there is no political intersection that will solve such a complex legal issue. That's what you know and follow that file better than I do. For him, I must admit, I had no great knowledge until, before I became Prime Minister. Anyway, here's to this appeal of yours, I'm going to ask the Secretary of State to see what stage this case is in, if there's any progress since the last time we dealt with it. What I still have to do, since you asked the question, is look back at this statement of yours three days ago. I've already responded to it from Brussels. I see you've apologized, to try and say that you've been a little nervous, your coalition partners obviously try to hide it somewhere, minimize it, they don't want to emancipate on all bells one sentence in a report that didn't come to a college of the European Commission and throw at us as a government or a state image of corruption, it's called disproportionate inflating something. What you wrote, there is another dimension, you sent one message that is very dangerous, which is very bad, you sent one message to which you were a defacto killer appologier during the former SFRY of Croatian emigrants, and you kind of explained that it wasn't enough, that it was serious, that you could be wrong, but those are the thoughts that you or someone were for you, I even hope that maybe you weren't, I would be glad that you didn't personally put as a political message as head of the party, head of HSS, I don't know what Mr. Lenart thinks about it, I don't know what Mr. Vlaovic thinks, I don't know what your members think. I can tell you that within the HDZ and the entire electoral bodies that support us that people are appalled, can't believe, believe that something like that is impossible in 2020, we chair the EU, we face the past, we strive in our society to cultivate a culture of memories and a little bit of this deep and large division in Croatian society to calm down, pursue truth and peace. And that's why I advise you just as a colleague to pull it a little tighter, to pull it tighter, it would be good for you because what you've done contributes to the divisions, it contributes to the divisions in Croatian society, and it's not good, it's politically bad, it's the people that got into that statement, they couldn't believe it, and that's why you're asking, since you're already asking, I wanted to tell you well, just as you asked me a well-meaning question about Schmidthen, and I'm going to ask Minister Banozić to fix it with political will to fix it, and I'm going to have to tell you well, don't do it well, you't do things that have big leads, big consequences, we don't really agree with it, and whenever you do something like that we'll react, that one of us, I have to admit that it would be unimaginable that you on this side of the political spectrum We made someone come from this side of the political spectrum, let's not distract them from their minds, these are double criteria and hypocrites. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181569	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181570	Here's the Honorable Prime Minister, I thank you for one smooth and fine answer, I am aware of the weight of all that, and I thank you for having responded normally, it has not been seen for a long time, I must admit, by you. Also, I don't blame you for anything, of course you'll get caught up in anything because I know you've lost one election, you've lost another and you'll almost lose the third election and it's so in politics, you know, elections are lost, elections are up. I wish you had such an apology as you've heard from me on many occasions, if you'd asked those who supported terrorists who killed people on behalf of the Republic instead of letting them on their official pages to support your candidate, if you'd done so, then I would have believed in your well-meaning, so unfortunately it turns out only hypocrisy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181571	28th question MP Mladen Madjer asks the Minister of Science and Education Blaženko Divjak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181572	Thank you, Mr. President. My question is addressed to the minister, and this is about co-financing children in kindergartens. We know that the units of local self-government are the main source of funding for children in kindergartens, we know that schools are co-financed by regional self-government or the state budget, so I'm asking if the ministry is planning to re-route some of the funds for co-financing of children in kindergartens? Because we know that local self-government units have been given more resources by this tax reform than we welcome, but I think the Ministry of Education should also be directly involved in co-financing of children in kindergartens, not just to local self-government units. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181573	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181574	Thank you, Mr. President HS, thank you, Mr. Representative, for this question, for the participation of children in early and preschool education and education is a very important topic. Unfortunately, we are lagging behind, for example, the EU average, with the percentage of children who participate or are covered by early and preschool education and education by 4 years, according to the latest data 83%, the truth is, it is a shift, it is data from 2017, it is a shift compared to 2016 by 7 percentage points, however it is still far from our goal, which is 95%, and that is why I say that your question is relevant. It is also true that in the past few years, extremely much has been invested in infrastructure because this information that tells us that we have coverage of all 83% of children in early and preschool education by 4 years is, in fact, addressed mainly in the European Commission report where it is explicitly said that this is because we lack infrastructure and because we lack staff that we actually need to work with children. As far as infrastructure is concerned, I'm sure the new data will show that we have a larger coverage since this government, therefore at government level, means investment from different ministries in the last few years has restored or upgraded, built 500 kindergartens in the Republic of Croatia, which I think is a major venture, which, if I'm not mistaken, is about a billion and a half kuna, means investment, which, we agree, is good. What is, on the other hand, an obligation and the basis of the Law on Early and Preschool Education and Education to finance primarily wages and financing, the majority funding of kindergartens is on units of local regional and regional administrations, self-government. And in that sense, the law here is quite clear what we as a ministry do, we do, we do surveillance, we do national, national curricula that must then be applied, and we also take care that those kindergartens meet certain conditions. We are tasked with co-financing, co-financing of the programme, meaning a special programme of public needs mainly related to if I remember three categories well, these are children with difficulty in parenting children or children members of national minorities. We in the state budget here have secured about 19 million kunas that we then schedule for these programmes. So that's part of one, I'd say system policies where they invest in infrastructure, where they naturally invest in collaboration with the founders, where they invest in just fitting kindergartens and clearly in quality, quality programs. In that sense, I say we meet our legal obligation, and I am sure that we can also use funds from funds to raise and I would say the number or increase the number of people who work in kindergartens because we see a shortage and in this sense we have certain legal solutions and some more funds in funds that we could use for that purpose. Here, I hope I answered your question.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181575	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181576	Well, I'm partially satisfied, but I'm clearly not entirely satisfied if it means no co-financing, but we know that somewhere the economic cost of kindergartens ranging from 1,500 to 2,000 kuna per child depends on the number of children, depending on kindergarten, and we know that units of local self-government have a higher budget to co-finance more to go less burden on parents, but I'm also aware that new kindergartens have been built that have been invested in infrastructure, but I'm afraid that units of local self-government that don't have the means to come up with problems that won't simply parents with this, conditions they won't be able to pay, and the local self-government unit won't be able to co-finance children. Well, here's the thing, but I can appeal to the government of the Republic of Croatia, which should now bring in a new regulation on the exploitation of hydrocarbons, where funds should be increased precisely to local self-government units that can be co-financed from this work, for example. children who go to kindergarten. Because as much as I have information that this ratio is now predicted to be 4 4 2, I don't think it's right for local self-government units. One part of the large funds could be allocated to children to co-finance children in kindergartens in local self-government units. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181577	Let's go to 29 questions, MP Domagoj Hajdukovic asks Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181578	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Plenkovic, commenting on the defeat of your candidate in the presidential elections, you said and quote: "It is a matter of demographicism, where HDZ has better results today lives less people." end of quote. According to your statement, my question is therefore true. Will you, after you have admitted that the HDZ has a bad influence on Croatia's demography and thus become the first HDZ to do at least something to prevent or reduce emigration from Croatia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181579	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181580	Dear Representative Hajdukovic, therefore, draws such conclusions from my sentence, which was nothing more than the transfer of facts that our internal meetings showed by colleagues who were heads of the county organisations in Slavonian counties, facts. At the end of the line, you had now one media house that went to verify the numbers, so they said it was all true. So what you've just said is again like this before about corruption, about chaos, about what you're trying to do beyond all proportions to try to create some political spin. And I'll tell you next. No government has done more for Slavonia than this government since the first moment of the 2016 election programme and the project Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem. 12 billion contracted kunas from the current financial envelope that we have adapted to give a development pulse to those counties other than yours, you are from Osijek-Baranja, except for your 4 others are practically at the beginning of all possible scales of development of Croatian counties. They need support, too. And so we went into this project, to unite, to have one cohesion of activities and when it comes to investment in infrastructure, when it comes to agriculture, when it comes to rural development, when it comes to protecting the environment, when it comes to decentralisation and support of individual units of local self-government, business projects, a series of activities that have the task of revitalising Slavonia. The issue of demographic revitalisation is not only recognized as the problem Croatia has been living with for the past few decades, it is not a problem that started with neither the SDP government nor this HDZ government, it is a problem Croatia has. We're compared to '91. Lost nearly 700,000 people in one way or another, and that's the facts. Such a huge problem of lower natural origin, the fact that we have about 15 thousand people less every year because so unfortunately people die than there are newly born, these are our realities, all the demographic measures we have taken, either through the Ministry of Demography, Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Education, Ministry of Civil Engineering, spatial arrangements with housing loans, a series of other activities going towards changing the circumstances, and this latest tax reform on 0 income tax for people up to 25 years and 50% of 26-30 are messages and signals that young people form their families in Croatia and remain in Croatia. What is a fact, too, and this is not only a problem for us but also for others, one of the four fundamental freedoms, freedom of movement, which we have received from EU membership, has enabled our fellow citizens to have recognised qualifications, not to have quotas, not to have working permits and can come freely with their education and qualifications to the labour market of other members without restrictions. And Austria will end these restrictions, lastly, here it holds them until the end of June 30, 2020. And that cocktail of lower natural growth and freedom of movement leads to this situation that we have. It is our job, including through Dubravka Shuic, who has this portfolio at the level of Europe for the first time in our initiative to enter the phenomenon of the problem of going from rural areas to urban areas from less developed to more developed, to make it two-way. And that's what we're working on, and so vice versa, we can be satisfied with what we did for Slavonia in relation to others and on that trail. We'll work in the next period. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181581	There you go, the obvious.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181582	Thank you very much. Well, Prime Minister, I'll tell you a secret. Why Međimurje, why Varazdin County, why Krapina-Zagorska County, why Istria County, why Rijeka do not have such a visible problem with demographics? Because he's not in HDZ power there. Just because I'm going to remind you, now I'm going to quote you again, quote where HDZ has better results, there are fewer people living today. So, I think you can see for yourself that where HDZ wins is ruled by demographic desolation, apathy, hopelessness. Well, people don't leave because they're fine. Since I come from Slavonia like you said, I can see for myself. In 5 Slavonian counties, from their beginning in power is HDZ or its derivatives. Very short in Osijek-Baranja County was not HDZ, it was HDSSB and similar from HDZ. The only reason the Osijek-Baranja County is more developed is because there is the largest city in Slavonia, Osijek, which is the engine of the development of the county and region in which you will guess, almost never was HDZ in power. Very short. These are the reasons, Prime Minister, and it is very well known that what caused the problem, you cannot be his solution. So I call you again, resign and save Croatia. Save Croatia from corruption. Save Croatia from demographic disaster. Save Croatia from apathy, save Croatia from intransparency, save Croatia from yourself, save Croatia from HDZ. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181583	The 30th question, representative Bozica Makar, is asked by EU Minister of Regional Development and Funds Marko Pavic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181584	Thank you very much, esteemed president of HS. Honorable Prime Minister and Minister. Dear Minister Pavic, we are all aware that in the last 2 years, EU funds have become generators of development in the Republic of Croatia. This plays a significant role in precisely integrated territorial investment and this mechanism that enables the integration of different resources from different sources, different funds and operational programmes, as well as their investment in activities aimed at strengthening the role of cities as a driver of economic development. It is also a challenge for a number of EU members to make these very integrated investments, precisely integrated and integrated. I am therefore interested, specifically, in what are the priorities of the ministry in the coming period and what can regional self-government units expect about the distribution of funds from the current financial envelope, so what can our cities, municipalities and counties hope for? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181585	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181586	Thank you, well-respected MP Macar, the Honorable President of the Parliament. Representatives, Prime Minister and Minister. You are right, just the instrument of integrated territorial investment or so on. The ITU mechanism is a very flexible mechanism that enables cities to develop significantly. So far in Croatia there are 7 cities, i.e. 4 aglomerations, Zagreb, Osijek, Split, Rijeka plus Zadar, Slavonski Brod and Pula, which from the Operational Programme competitiveness and cohesion are available over 2.3 billion kuna plus the part that comes from the European Social Fund. So far over 77% of calls have been made, slightly more than a quarter has been agreed, what we expect from existing cities, to complete this financial envelope and contracts. We know that there were few challenges about the preparation of intervention lists, about the establishment of a management system, this is essentially what we call our target language, PT3, or the 3rd level executive body, where cities or cities that use the ITU mechanism have a mechanism for investing funds and for those priorities that other funds cannot invest. For example, cities can invest in building schools from ITU mechanisms. So, what I expect from the present envelope, the conclusion of the contract and the respect of the deadlines. I believe that this will simply be respected because the cities have understood the strength of the ITU mechanism, its flexibility and that they can invest. Recently there was a conference, also the EU Commission in Osijek, where the EU Commission presented the experiences of other member states, were guests from several Member States who also have IT mechanisms and I think we all have similar challenges here, which is how these investments become integrated territorial. What we see from experience, and we will certainly insist on in the next financial envelope, that not all projects can be at the heart of the cities that implement the ITU mechanism, so that you have a situation now that Rijeka has, for example, one of the ITU mechanisms, we, Eurocenter, do not go to Gorski Kotar, although Gorski Kotar is part of the ITU mechanism of entire agglomeration that Rijeka has reported. Furthermore, these areas will expand further in the next period with Karlovac, Dubrovnik, Varazdin, Vinkovci, Sisak, Sibenik and Bjelovar. We will see if some of them will already enter the end of this envelope in accordance with the use of the funds, but in June 2019 a decision was made to expand with them. These cities need to make territorial strategies, they need to define a package of measures so-called. Intervention lists he'll invest in. What exactly will be the height of the envelope, we are waiting for the conclusion of the negotiations of the entire multiannual financial framework. At present, there are significant differences between the Council and Parliament's position, Croatia will also play a significant role in the closure itself and the multiannual financial framework, as well as in cohesion regulations, in particular the CPR regulation which defines the rules including the ITU mechanism, i.e. I will personally participate between the European Council and the European Parliament in the coming months. Therefore, in conclusion, the ITU mechanism is that a good, significant, flexible enables cities to finance something they otherwise could not from other means, should be used. And exactly what you said, it needs to be strengthened to be integrated and territorial without just investing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181587	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181588	Thank you very much for your comprehensive response. I am pleased with this more because I expect that there will be enough funding in the financial envelope, and that our cities will prepare better than it was at the beginning and that they will succeed in meeting the deadlines and everything else that is required for them to withdraw funds from these funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181589	Before moving on to the next question, just information that you can plan time. So after the end of the current morning, there will be a free speech, then there will be a break and we will continue at 15.30 with a agenda report by the Prime Minister on the European Council meetings held in 2019. Let's move on now, representative Sabina Vosovac is asking the Prime Minister, Andrej Plenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181590	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Mr. Plenkovic. In 2006, your colleagues from HDZ and half of the government of the Republic of Croatia were on rafting in Zrmanja, here are photos, and then Minister Kolinda Grabar Kitarović, Minister Kirin, Minister Kalmeta, Minister of Cobankovic. The star of the rafting at the time was Minister Cobanković, the following year everyone wore T-shirts on the next rafting route "We are all Cho" and it was all nice in terms of promoting Croatian tourism and in terms of promoting the beauty and importance of one of the most beautiful Croatian rivers, namely Zrmanje. But my question to you today, in 2006, you were here first on the rafting on the emerald green river, where are you today? Where are you today when this river is no longer Emerald green but the colour of the mule is grey black? So it's no secret that dangerous substances have been poured out in Zrmanja for many years, but this kind of ecological disaster that happened a few days before this year, so at the end of December, people simply don't remember. Citizens, associations write petitions, write statements, beg you to do something. So unless there's a permanent solution, there's really a big ecocid here. My question to you is, how long do you intend to ignore the problem faced not only by residents but also by the fact that these are also crimes against life, against environmental protection. We need to protect the water, the ground, what are you going to do, what have you done?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181591	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181592	Thank you very much, very much, very much, very much. I see you're a big fan of HDZ former members and members of the government when they're probably a little on the team building, you're rafting their pictures, you're showing them to the public, thank you for that free promotion. We'll take care of your effective relationship with the former members of the government and even the slogans on the T-shirts. I must admit that it even surprised me that you are such an accurate acquaintance of the former HDZ governments. As for the pollution of the Zrmanja River, according to the data, although this is more a question for Minister Coric and if necessary, they will answer you more precisely, which I have from the Ministry of Environmental Protection there was a resolution done ten years ago. This pollution that took place was immediately established, there were competent inspections and the State Inspectorate, appropriate actions were taken, Croatian waters were ordered to carry out enhanced surveillance, the engagements were a specialist company called IND-EKO and it started to resuscitate the Zrmanja River. As for the water sample, HZZ follows this whole story, analyzes the samples and will take care of the yes and the public, and everyone interested knows the situation. What we are going to do further is to first determine the causes, to determine the scale, to take all measures to stop such pollution and to keep the Zrmanja River as beautiful as you call emerald colors. Therefore, these are issues that the competent authorities, water, inspectors, the Ministry of Environmental Protection, specialised companies dealing with this. And if there's someone else's responsibility, I'm sure there'll be appropriate actions on that trail. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181593	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181594	Well, you see, dear Prime Minister, precisely because of this unprofessionally unfinished, unprofessionally implemented and unfinished recovery, the citizens are furious and this is happening. 120 million kunas have been spent, some criminal, serious criminal proceedings against the actors of that story, including Mr. Mladne, and precisely because of your recovery that failed, unfinished, we have today a threat of an even greater ecological disaster and I am asking you the following. In 2015, the Ministry of Environmental Protection agreed to the rehabilitation program of the red mud pools and the luminaries of the former clay plant in Jasenice, 2015, the rehabilitation programme, the new one, the completion of the recovery, the normal recovery, the insurance of 100 million kuna in 2015, where is this money? Where's that program? Why hasn't it been carried out in whose drawer it stands and whose account it stands for? And now, so it doesn't turn out like I'm looking after pictures again, using politics, saving myself, yeah, because I don't like hypocrites, when someone's the first place to take pictures, and when it comes to dealing with these citizens' problems, otherwise my county's about being particularly sensitive to that part, then they're gone, then the problems are ignored, and the problem is kept in the drawer. I only hope that these ministers are no longer ministers, they have disappeared from the ministerial political scene, the last is this President of the Republic of Croatia, I only hope that Zrmanju, it is not a great pity for Croatia, but it would be a shame to divide their fate by Zrmanja and Zrmanja away. If the scars are poured out in Zrmanja, there will be no more living organisms there and in order to get better at what I told you, to look in dusty drawers, the object on which the dust fell and to return that money and try to solve these people's problems, I will, I won't, to you, here Minister Coric, he's closer to... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181595	Thank you. Let's go to question 32, Representative Tulio Demetlika asks Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181597	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Prime Minister Plenkovic, I will ask you a very specific and clear question, so please also a very specific and clear answer. I believe that you too are familiar with the fact that 22.1. means exactly 7 days from now, in Pazin you will hold a hearing where the congregation of the creditors should make a decision on the plan of the bankruptcy manager of the Uljanika d.d. This plan provides for the liquidation of the roof company Uljannik group but also for the resuscitation of shipbuilding in a way to transfer concessions, equipment and start construction on the company Uljannik brodogradja 1856. The fate of the Oilies is therefore in the hands of the believers and in making that decision the key vote is the voice of your government. Moreover, it is becoming more and more clear that the pulse shipyard has a chance to breathe a new life. As I understand it, the business plan for the continuation of shipbuilding should soon be discussed by the government at the session. Approving this strategy, which is requested by the bankruptcy manager of the Oilics d.d. and, with the support of the bankruptcy manager, Uljanik Brodagrada was developed by an expert team of oil workers, the state as the largest Oily Believer would allow the completion of the boat Stočar and thus the employment of about 500 former Oilers. Since uncertainty continues for the Uljannik shipyard as well as for all workers and their families, please speak openly today what position will be taken by the Republic of Croatia as the majority owner of the Oilics? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181598	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181599	Thank you very much. Representative Demetlika, I see that you, as IDS agent, are constantly showing an interest in the oil which is good, this government has made so many important projects and concrete investments in the Istrian County that I am a little sorry that this is never reflected in any political respect for these facts. From the pulse hospital to the Istrian Ipsilon to investment in tourism and a number of other things we do without talking about paying state guarantees of 4.5 billion for built ships in the Uljannik Shipyard, which is mostly privately owned. You know very well that, unlike those of you who have read this question, I am unfortunately through this mandate, so I must admit, without looking at the paper, almost learned a series of details about many Croatian companies that are in one way or another in a sort of purgatory of Croatian economic transition. From Agrokor which we practically went into office to Petrokemia, Borov, Brodotrogira, for example, on May 3rd, Uljanik and a series of others. What this government is doing and the difference between some others who have issued guarantees and transferred problems to others, we are looking at how to target, precisely identified measures financially sustainable because we can no longer deal with shipbuilding by increasing the losses for the state rather than reducing them, that is the point because there are other companies in Croatia who watch how we treat shipbuilding and in subsidies we have given them, I think, more than 35 billion in the last 30 years. We will prepare ourselves for this hearing, today we also have a meeting on this issue between this part of the parliamentary debate and the afternoon, we also talked to representatives of the union, Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Finance on a continuous basis to see how to find a sustainable solution, the topic and the Uljanik and the Third May were on the agenda and our talks with the Executive Vice-President of the European Commission responsible for state support, and this is Margrethe Vester, you may have seen that, too, it was last week, for what we would say, we were strutting here, we were making a circus out of the rotating presidency, not, we are using our influence to solve the economic problems of Croatian transition, it is being the Croatian presidency, and for those who do not know anything about it and who suspect that we could do anything, I guess it is some extra activity that might not be in the interest of the Croatian people. We will have our position, we have seen a business plan, we understand the message and the trade union leaders of the Oilies that we received right after Christmas, who were in the government and Minister Horvat will report it to the public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181600	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181601	I thank you for your response, if you know Mr. Prime Minister in Istria they say "what was it, and let's turn to tomorrow and it was and turn to the future" and I will say, I will not express my satisfaction or dissatisfaction with your answer because it doesn't matter, it is important that just the workers of the Oilers, who are currently at the Employment Service, will be pleased with your answer. They've been working for two years. They wait with impatience to respond, the government's response to finally make the right state decision, because this is the only time that this government has had the power to do something or to find a sustainable solution. Unfortunately, though, it has not happened to this day. I will say that, since you and your ministers are the tailors of the fate of all citizens in the Republic, and in this particular case of the oil workers, and also their families, and we have said several times that they are in your hands and canvas and scissors, I will today take advantage of the opportunity to give you one tailoring meter, so I ask you to set your fate in a way that your criteria are equal for all workers in the Republic, to use the same meter, to have the same measure, and since you often declare that your criteria for the entire Republic are equal, that also for these oil workers have that hope. to stay in the Republic of Croatia. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181602	Let's now go to question 33, Representative Miro Totgergeli asks him by the Minister of Regional Development and EU Funds, Marko Pavic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181603	Thank you, President HS, the Honorable Prime Minister, Vice-President and Ministers, Ministers, MPs and MPs, I ask the question of the Minister of Regional Development and EU Funds, I come from the County, which is, in terms of development and economic strength amongst the most underdeveloped counties in the Republic of Croatia, and you point out that in your public appearances, even regional development is one of your fundamental objectives, and this is one of the main objectives of the Government of Mr. Andrej Plenkovic, which is why I am asking you because it is also interested in citizens and entrepreneurs, but also the mayors of our county which you are already working with programmes and instruments, with which you will work in the future to achieve this fundamental goal, and this is even regional development of the Republic? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181604	Dear Minister Pavic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181605	Thank you very much. Dear Representative, MPs and MPs, Honored Vice-President HS, Prime Minister with ministers, thank you very much for asking, if a government has worked on even regional development and for all Croatian counties to come and approach the European average, this is exactly the government. When we look at the opportunities that counties or parts of the Republic of Croatia have had from EU funds, this government has found 9% of the funds contracted, we are now at 83.4%. If someone needs an argument one only reason for Croatia's EU membership to be good for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, let's just look at the fact that when we take away the EU membership fee that we have net income of more than 20 billion kuna and we have paid over EUR 3.3 billion. The Republic of Croatia is a major construction site, we see it every day on the ground when we are both in your county, MPs and in the town of Bjelovar, and just the funds that are from the EU are available for regional development. In addition, this government has more than nearly doubled national funding for regional development so that the funds that are there for islands, mountainous mountainous areas and assisted areas have been raised, so when we add up with this year more than 2 billion kuna investments, the government has passed over the entire four-year term of 560 million kuna, so 3 and a half times more investment in regional development. It's the most vulnerable county, and at first we detected that it's precisely 5 Slavonian counties, 12 billion kunas agreed so far, over 4.5 billion kunas paid off. European funds change the Republic of Croatia, European funds change regions, change our counties, provide also quality life, better access to health care, education, better access to transport, roads, roads that raise the quality of our citizens' lives. Also this government has never had a dialogue with the mayors before, we have every 6 months coordination with the mayors, 480 million kunas we have invested in the development of regional coordinators that are in... County regional development agencies and which will also prepare a series of specific PayPal projects for the next financial period. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] In all, therefore, we invest as much as possible in regional development, extracting from national funds. When we sum up the European funds that I said we have used 83.4% so far, when we add up national funds over 2 billion kunas in regional development, when we sum up the effects of tax reform over 2 billion kunas that remain units of local and regional self-government, these are the real reforms of this government. When we add up the project Slavonia, Baranja, Sreem over 12 billion kunas. Therefore, we are aware that it is always possible to do better, we are working on developing new instruments for regional development for the future financial period, we are also struggling to keep the national envelope as much as possible preserved. We are also aware of the UK exits and the biggest net payer, but the results are there and exactly regional development and the uniformity of all Croatian parts is the priority of this government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181606	Thank you. Dear Representative Miro Totgergeli.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181607	Thank you for your comprehensive response, thank you for what you are doing on the even regional development of the Republic of Croatia. I would mention that it is precisely for our undeveloped counties such as my any more kuna that comes to the county that contributes to the development and arrival of the rest of Croatia. In this context, he would also mention what made your ministry last year when it created a new statistical division of the Republic of Croatia where it removed us from the City of Zagreb and gave our owners the opportunity to gain, to get more funds in the future than they could while they were together with the City of Zagreb. I also have to mention the fact that it is precisely the SDP and the current mayor that they pushed us into the region north where those 15% for the businessmen would be directly less funds, and I am also thanking your ministry, government, but also all those commissioners and mayors who have not allowed it with me, and yet we have found ourselves in Pannonian Croatia where the businessmen will have a greater perspective in the coming time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181608	Thank you. The next question will be asked by respected representative Branko Juričev Martinchev, Minister of Tourism Gariu Cappelliu.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181610	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Ministers and Ministers, Minister Cappelli is behind us in 2019 another record tourist year with which we can proudly say that we are registering 5% more arrivals of guests. In fact, 20.7 million guests visited the Republic of Croatia. We also have 2.4% higher nights, the figure says 108.6 million nights were achieved in 2019 which is far more than it was in 2018, and it was also record compared to the previous and so on. Of course, there is also an increase in tourist income which makes us extremely happy. The tourist offer is getting better every day, more and more quality, at a higher level, and we can also say that every guest who lives in the Republic spends more funds than it was in earlier years. Tourism is one of the most important branches of the Croatian economy in which we have great potential and we all work together and we must try to make it even higher. This government makes many measures that we have every day and more, as I said, arrivals and overnights and better tourist income, and that's what you can see. Namely, the figures show that over the past 3 years since this government has tried to improve and develop tourism we have an increase in nights by more than 16%, arrivals by 20% and so on. In fact, not only that, the government is also trying to provide rest for each of our citizens, at the same time as increasing and developing the domestic market. And that's why she promised in her program. The cro-card was introduced and it was done in December last year, so please a little more to the citizens and employers on the subject. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181611	The answer of the esteemed Minister Capelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181612	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear MPs, as you said yourself, the results are visible. So, every year there's practically a certain growth in tourism, but so much of me, I'm avoiding these physical indicators, me more cheerful financial indicators that have been reportedly increased. Let's say, compared to last year for the first nine months, we have 9.45, so EUR 9.5 billion of tourism revenues generated by CNB, which is about 9% more than a year ago. This is the result of increased work on the quality of Croatian tourism, and this is visible through the consumption generated by tourists in Croatia. We were doing a survey so last year, it is somewhere near the end, for the first time in Croatian history we are doing a survey on the basis of the whole year, not only in the peak of the tourist season and we are doing it in the territory of all Croatia. For the first time we also work on the continent where we first came to the data to say consumption in the City of Zagreb is 200 EUR per tourist, consumption, and at sea it is 97%, but at sea it has increased 20% in just a year. This is proof of work on quality and accommodation, on education, therefore, and everything Croatian tourism can offer, and the reason is that only recognizable, to be well branded, is because we have as many as a million tourists this year compared to last year. So, every year on average about a million since the reintegration of '98. to this day, on average, millions of tourists come to the Republic of Croatia more every year. This is the data that all those working in tourism contribute to, and we know that tourism is a horizontal activity and only brings results if we all contribute to it together. Of course, one of the crucial promises of this government was the introduction of a Croatian tourist card or so on. CRO cards that are more recognizable perhaps in public, so that they can increase and encourage additional consumption not only at sea but also on the continent, but also in the entire region of the Republic of Croatia just outside of the months so that the peak of the tourist season that delivers good results. This optimism also gives us an increase in the number of Croatian citizens who have been on arrivals this year of 2.5 million, which is 8.9% more than a year ago and have reached about 14 million overnight stays. Otherwise on the continent is about 7% growth every year, so between 7 and 10%, it gives us one optimism that by introducing a Croatian tourist card that will encourage the use of up to 2,500 kunas untaxable for employers to be able to use that card for tourist catering purposes and encourage consumption in the Republic, especially on the continent in advance and under season. This was the government's goal, the Ministry of Tourism, the Ministry of Finance, all of us together to encourage and thus come to an additional consumption and we believe that in the first year, so next year we will introduce these days to complete technical preparations. It will be a classic credit card that will be able to be used in all tourist and catering services in the Republic of Croatia and its effects will certainly already in the first year feel somewhere in the height of potential net revenues around a billion kuna. So that was the goal, and I think that's what we're going to do with it, and since this year we've been going somewhere since the 4th month. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181613	Dear representative Branko Juričev Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181614	Thank you very much. Dear Ministers, I am sure that this new measure of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Croatian Tourist Card will not only contribute to the development of tourism but will reflect on other activities and productivity and other activities. Namely, I am sure that every employer is aware that a satisfied worker is a more productive worker, and that he is a more successful employer and as many of the measures we have had and in a package of tax reforms when untaxable expenditures have also become food costs, accommodation even paying children's kindergartens as well as rewarding was used by numerous employers. The figures show that more than 515,000 workers received a reward from their employers after the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted one such measure, and that was used by 32,000 employers, respectively, to take advantage of such a measure. I also expect that these same employers, and many others, decide to reward their workers with a Croatian tourist card, thereby contributing to the development and tourism, as well as to the success of the business of their trade crafts or activities of another kind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181615	The next question will be asked by respected representative Slaven Dobrovic, Minister of Environment and Energy Tomislav Ćoric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181616	Thank you very much. Dear Minister Djoric. You as a person who was born in one end on a beautiful Croatian river I believe you have feelings for another at least one beautiful if not a nicer Croatian river it is Zrmanja. I'm sure you're aware of the fact that a recent episode of the run-off of mules from the karst underworld has occurred, so beneath the former Glinica Factory, which has been remedied on two occasions in a criminal manner, and that is actually one material proof of the incompleteness and incompleteness of that recovery. Let the judicial bodies deal with it, but we must look further. Further importance to this issue can be seen in the fact that Zrmanja has just been used as one of three motives for presenting Croatia at the recent London Tourist Fair, so it is an adventure or adventure sports tourism and we have to do something. It is clear that you, as minister of the present, are not responsible either for the once-made insane factory in that beautiful area, nor are you personally responsible for the crime in the recoverys, but you ministers have a waste management plan in which, as the first of the black dots in the Republic of Croatia, this location, you have European resources at your disposal and you have the responsibility to preserve this beautiful, prestigious heritage. So I'm asking you, what have you done on this matter so far because you've been a minister for over two and a half years and what do you intend to do?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181617	The reply of the respected Minister Coric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181618	I thank Mr. Dobrovic, the esteemed representative of this issue of yours, and I am actually pleased that you, like most of those who deal with environmental protection or waste management in Croatia, are considering issues such as the pollution of Zrmanja or the issue of the recovery of this black spot, but also about waste management. Given the fact that the rule that you are my questions or answers to your questions is unsatisfactory, I will take this opportunity and allow you to answer your question by written means, and then you and your environmental assistant, Mr. Buljo, will surely respond to that answer. As for the concept of waste management in Croatia in the last two and a half years I've done a million times what you've done in a year and a half haven't done anything. It is time for the Croatian public to find out so that the arrows you point at from the constituencies are also some other speakers on the subject at one point turn to you. You also know that the problem of several black dots in Croatia, you know that the problem of several black points in Croatia, you know that this problem requires hundreds of millions of kuna solutions, you also know that the financial resources of any fund in Croatia and neither the Environmental and Energy Efficiency Fund are infinite, you know that a tender for the recovery of another black spot in Croatia is open, and that is the Soviet, you know that it will carry a hundred million kuna, so in this context your question simply got the agreement as it deserved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181619	Dear Representative Dobrović, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181620	Dear Minister, it's unfortunate to listen to your answer, he's in line with what you said, said television that the situation is on the ground, that it's not unsatisfactory, I don't know why you didn't say it was satisfactory then. Minister, I don't think you're even aware of your responsibilities and as to who did what in waste management, I've brought a waste management plan that you don't follow and which is the only one that can provide what you're talking about but also at the parole level. The circular management of Mr. Minister is something that is carried out through a network of sorterries, composts, a centre for re-use that you are persistently not financing but that you are after centres like the Marines, dear sir, don't go into the word, it's unfortunate that you don't move away from the crime that the HDZ is through two resolutions, so from 2003 and 2055, 2006, I don't know what years, there are reports, you have the opportunity to get away from it, to carry out a professional recovery based on knowledge that exists, you have Croatian water, you have the instruments, so also through the fund and through Croatian water, you have the money, and it was an opportunity to show you that you are different, that it's from that same party but for a new Croatian age, however, you don't, you have the same thing and it't, therefore, using natural arrogance and this arrogance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181621	The next question will be asked by respected representative Sasa Djujic to Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181622	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr Plenkovic, 10 days ago, Croatian citizens chose the new President of the Republic of Zoran Milanovic and thus sent a message in which direction they wanted Croatia to go for the next 5 years. President Zoran Milanovic, now elected during the campaign, has repeatedly sent messages to the Croatian public but also to you to give you his hand of cooperation, that he will be your best friend as much as possible, as he repeated in the election evening. What he welcomed from your side, he welcomed messages of hard co-habitation. The Croatian public didn't understand it either, and when they asked you the second day to explain that statement about hard co-habitation, you said the president would just get to know it. I've been looking for it in the Constitution, it's not there, I've been looking for words, what I've seen, there are two interpretations of cohabitation, it's political interpretation and what's sociological, this concept of hard cohabitation can be more related to this sociological meaning, so, hard marriage, hard life in two, hard intercourse, it's a little harder to relate to this political issue, when two levels of government come from different political options, so here, I would ask you here to let us all here in this Assembly, the future President of the Republic, but also to the Croatian public explain what you meant by the elected president, whether this is also an attempt by the ambassador without consulting with the elected president, yesterday you announced that we are going into the process of obtaining fighter aircraft, whether you might have talked to the elected president about what he thinks about who you might talk about, but here, what you think about, what you might be aware of what you might be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181623	Dear Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181624	Dear Representative Djujic, I see that you are a true student champion, a true SDP junior who follows what the former head of the party tells him and now the President of the Republic tells him and then goes in detail to explain it all together and look for answers. You see, we've already had cohabitation in the Croatian political system. I remember when your second president, let's say Ivo Josipovic, tried to bring down the HDZ government led by Jadranka Kosor just two months ago. Before the end of the negotiations on our membership in the EU, it was spring 2011, you supported the Facebook protests at the time. So the difference between you and us, the syntagma introduced by your then president of the party and the government into the political discourse of Croatia, cannot be the focus of the newly discovered spirit of community among the community who became President of the Republic. It's just not true, it's not authentic. So the same former prime minister and former HDZ chief polarised, antagonised and shared society, the same man had the same rhetoric in 2016 in the parliamentary election campaign. What he said about me, about my family, sown up all the evils of untrueness and difamation that you, his students, or these brilliant ones from the far right who have been throwing away the lies, the diphasmation, the untruth into public space for years. See, that's it. When you want to ask me what it is for you, then you have to look at these relationships in one context. Okay, this time most Croatian voters decided this way. We can't do anything here, we can respect election results and co-operate in accordance with the Constitution and the law. And according to our parliamentary system and the political system at all, the president's powers are significantly different today than they were before the constitutional changes from the beginning of the 2000s. Everyone will stick to their powers, we will cooperate on those topics on which we have common competences. As for this one of yours, I can almost do it by crying you and some of your colleagues about the appointment of ambassadors. So, the first procedure, as the ambassadors are called, has been going on for several months. We are waiting for the aggregates of the receiving countries, as far as I know it is a single appointment in a country that is relevant to us. The idea is to send one of the most experienced Croatian diplomats and not only Croatian but European diplomats Hida Bištevic. I don't know what kind of personal relations they have, I don't see any problem with having that signature either in the current president's office or in the term of office of the future president. This is not a political question, no demonstration of any message but a normal procedure that is politically important to us in the context of the EU presidency, especially when we sent an ambassador from Belgrade to Berlin who is also important to us, it works. And as for diplomats in our term, no diplomat who went outside at the time when Minister Pusic, the president of then Josipovic or Prime Minister Milanovic, decided to ask them, and these people were not personally withdrawn earlier. They've all done their mandates. So don't pollute me with public space where we were principled, correct, professional, always looking at the state interest. Here's the story, take care of her, as a good student, I'm sure you'll transfer this information to where you need it. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181625	Dear Representative Sasa Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181626	The Honorable President is everyone's student, and the student is successful if he outsmarts his teacher, and I also see that your students have outsmarted you, here's colleague Ressler sending us messages from Brussels that you are no longer president of the HDZ and president of the state and I see that he has outsmarted you and that he finally understood that. So I see you're having trouble with your students and it's really hurting you because that's the word you just mentioned six times, but that's your problem. As for the former prime minister, you are now interpreting how he shared society, as he is, like this. Look, he was elected by the citizens 10 days ago by this country as president of the Republic and they said what they thought about it. He may have been ex-wife, now he's future, and you will remain ex-husband for all time, and what I find saddens me personally as a man is that you will be marked after this term as a quarrel. You've been fighting with the unions, fighting with doctors, fighting with nurses, fighting with teachers, fighting with the opposition, fighting with your own colleague in your own party, and fighting with the future president of the Republic who gives you the hand of cooperation, but you won't find anyone else to argue with. This best speaks of you, you continue to argue and as long as you argue and talk like this about students, kittens, students who hurt you very much, Croatian citizens choose change, and soon your colleagues in the party will obviously choose change. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181627	The next question will be asked by a respected representative, Drazen Srpak, Minister of Economy, entrepreneurship and craftsman Darko Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181628	The Honorable Vice-President of the Assembly, the Honorable Prime Minister, respected ministers, fellow MPs, small and medium-sized entrepreneurship has been recognised globally as a driver of development and a generator of new jobs. Since the first day of the term of office, this government has been aware of these topics and has put attention to supporting growth and the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. We also had the opportunity to hear that the strategic goal of Minister Horvat was to encourage the transformation of the Croatian economy towards a high value added product-based economy. In this process, it is precisely the role of small and medium-sized entrepreneurship that one of the key roles will play. The area of investment in research and innovation development is also too important. As we both arrive, Minister Horvat of Međimurje must refer to a previous statement by counterpart Hajdukovic about Međimurje. It is true that the Međimurians and the north in the presidential elections and parliamentarys mostly vote for the SDP, and it is even more true that the SDP government has not received anything or just crumbs from the table. Therefore, if someone needs to be saved, then it is necessary to save the North and Međimurje from such governments because all major investments have come to the north and to Međimurje at the time of the HDZ Government and the HDZ Government. The question is, what are you going to do to add gas to encourage small and medium enterprises as much as possible to get as much space as possible, as much resources for your rapid development? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181629	Thank you. The answer of the Honorable Minister Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181630	Thank you, dear Parliamentarian. Well, while most of the voters of Međimurac, Varazdinac and Zagorac usually choose SDP in the area of northwestern Croatia, the SDP governments never give back to them in any way in this election process, yet another anomaly and Roma living in Međimurje gave almost 100% support to the SDP. But let's let politics and politics go back to facts and numbers. Thus, the subject and investment in research and development in the Republic of Croatia in 2018 grew at a rate of 18.7%. Therefore, it is not a problem whether a 2 or 3% step in this segment, 18.7% step, very exact, very targeted, very meaningful, of EU money, was expected in the projects of the Ministry of Economy. So, in segment so-called. IR1, R & D, which encouraged the creation of new products, investment in research, development, innovation, we also had an IR1 competition of 155 projects, 87 concrete investment contracts at the level of 1.3 billion kuna and grants granted to Croatian entrepreneurs of 684 million kuna. In light of the effect we have received, it is normal for us to wish for a second intervention of such a competition, it is ahead of some over the call, we have prepared for it in the first step of 770 million kuna and with S3 competitions or competitions based on the smart specialisation segment and the amount of 634 million, we are sure that in this year, not the grants, but the investment of approximately double what we provide through the form of grants, we will encourage investments in the research and development segment of more than 3 billion kuna. That is why we need a slightly more ambitious goal and the average that we have set as a task, and we want to meet it not until 2030, but by 2025 where we want to invest in the segment of research and development to 2.5% of the total GDP and to reach the EU average in exactly this way, we reach a step by step. The section of research and development, or participation within the GDP, already in 2019 has crossed the number of 1% and in this way and in such interactions, in 2025 very concrete and meaningful, investment in research and development, as well as the EU average and in Croatia will be 2.5%. Another segment of this government policy is very important in concrete figures. So let me remind you that some governments before us have abolished the legislative framework that has been funded or made tax relief for investors in research and development. We have returned this project, the law has been brought back, and already in 2019 projects created by this law we have at the level of €53 million, i.e. approved support through tax subsidies at a level of 13 million kuna. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181631	Dear Representative Srpak, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181632	... They received incentives from Međimurje, many will, I believe, still receive, and I am sure that this train still run by Minister Horvat, and I believe that in the future it will go much faster than the one before him when that train was driving some booze from Čakovec to Zagreb, 4 vora, 30 per hour and standing at every ganger. [[Specially enabled.]] So we need speed, we need help from concrete entrepreneurs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181633	The next question will be asked by respected representative Stipe Sapina to the minister of the sea, transport and infrastructure Oleg Butkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181634	The Honorable Vice-President of the HS, the Honorable Prime Minister of Croatia, the Honorable Ministers and Ministers, respected MPs and MPs. My question was addressed to the Minister of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, Mr. Oleg Butkovic. Dear Ministers, in recent months last year have proved to be quite fruitful when it comes to major projects in the railway sector. For years, however, we have been hearing about the necessity and importance of investment in railways, but we have not seen certain results in recent years. Dear Minister, tell us, when will the citizens, when could the citizens expect the realization of all the projects you started last year? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181635	The answer of the respected Minister Butkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181636	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, I thank you for your question. The fact is that after large investments in highway infrastructure, we were unable to invest in railways and that the rail system in Croatia today is quite derelict and is crying out for large investments, and that is what we are in both the government and the Ministry of the Sea, transport and infrastructure most focused. Currently, it is investing in transport infrastructure somewhere around 20 billion kuna and it is mostly in, most of these projects are in the railway. In December 2019 we opened the first time after 50 years of St. Ivan Gradec Žabno and of course we are happy that this stock is finally completed, and in parallel with this decision in December of the month, a decision was made for, a decision on the selection of the largest infrastructure project, not only in the railway, but also in the amount and from the Pelješko bridge, that is to say to continue construction of the railway line towards the Hungarian border, more specifically from Koprivnica, Križevci to the Hungarian border, and at the end of December, more precisely, a grant contract was signed for the construction and start of the construction of the railway line of total value of 2.5 billion kuna, which begins to be built in the term of this Government and this long-awaited railway on the Mediterranean corridor. In addition, projects of Zaprešić-Zabok are successfully implemented, somewhere around 600 million kuna, which should be completed in early 2021 and of course in December, I forgot, the contract was signed on the contractor, the works on the Vinkovci-Vukovar stock, it is also similar to Zaprešić-Zabok, somewhere around 600 million kuna. All these projects, including projects in the river port, totaling 60m euros, are one on the Brajdica container terminal, which goes to its end, the other on the Zagreb coastal container terminal, all these projects are funded by European funds, a total of 85% of the grants, and the rest we finance 15% from the state budget. Somewhere now is currently being invested in the railway 1.2 billion kuna, and what we expect in... Say, do you have anything to say? ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I continue and around 3.5 billion euros would be invested by 2030. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] It's mostly projects in the Mediterranean and the former 10th Corridor heading east. This is scheduled at the beginning of this year to mean somewhere in February that a new 21 new train purchase contract will be signed, for the sake of the HH passenger transport of total value over a billion kuna, also a project to be financed by the EU. I repeat, by 2030 some 3.5 billion kuna would be invested in the railway, which would make Croatia achieve all those objectives of the Transport Strategy and, of course, return the railway to what it really should be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181637	Honorable representative of Stypo Sapin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181638	Dear Minister, thank you for your response, I am pleased with your response and I am confident that all these projects will be implemented in the coming period. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181639	Thank you. The next question will be asked by a respected representative, Dragica Vranjs, to the minister of administration, Ivan Malenica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181641	Your Honor, I thank you. Honored government representatives, respected colleagues and colleagues. I'm asking a question to the Honorable Minister of Malenica. Since we have heard several measures today that will be implemented by this government regarding digitisation, and it is in your portfolio that it is somehow responsible for a lot of administrative jobs that our citizens face daily, entrepreneurs and young parents who are involved in various registrations of documents that unfortunately take them a lot of time. Please tell us in 2020 what concrete measures will you take, which will make life easier for everyday residents from my region of Brela, Baška Voda, Vrgorac cities, Imotski that I deliberately emphasize because it is big cities that have a series of settlements where it is not easy to reach the offices that are responsible for issuing such documents? So here, specifically in 2020, what measures can we expect in terms of the digitisation of the administration? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181642	The reply of the Honorable Minister of Management of Malenica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181643	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear MPs, distinguished representatives in the Croatian Parliament. So you have well noticed that through today's debate, much has been said about digitisation and digital transformation and about this can also announce news that will be presented this year with the cooperation of the Ministry of Administration, with the Central State Office for Digital Society, but also with the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The focus of the digitalisation project and the whole digital transformation is on citizens, on facilitating and achieving certain services, achieving certain rights, and, in that sense, the Ministry of Administration in 2020 implements a number of projects to implement this. I would like to point out the redesign of the Central State Portal, which is a central site that allows citizens to communicate with public administration. So we will contribute to new functionality that will contribute to easier and simpler delivery of certain services. Furthermore, we are developing an e-born project that allows citizens to report the birth of a child online, so it exists and is applied, but we will allow further development through the parent-care child application to enable parents to use services for their underage children and e-authority so that parents can use powers and representation. I would also point out the project e-enrolments, so it is about developing one complex electronic service to users of educational education services that will enable enrolment in kindergartens, primary and secondary schools, applying to the state prom through the realization of this project e-enrolment. Furthermore, we have not forgotten even entrepreneurs, here we are developing an e-authorisation project that will allow for the outreach of powers and representation and communication with the crafts and trade register. Also in realisation is a project and e-Prices that will allow online payment of fees and fees, and we are also developing a new mobile app for m-Citizens that should allow citizens to use the system e-Citizens and their personal user box in a more simple way, and for entrepreneurs a business user box. So, as I said at the beginning, we are making great efforts towards putting citizens in the focus of all processes of digitisation because, in fact, by simplifying the exercise of rights, we will allow both a more efficient and efficient public administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181644	Dear representative Dragica Vranjš.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181645	Dear Minister. I express my satisfaction and hope that as many public institutions and bodies as possible from my territory will be included in these initial stages of digitisation, and of course ultimately I hope that it will be available in the territory of the entire Republic and that the e-service itself will be available in all parts and our citizens as a prerequisite for the application of these measures at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181646	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, that's when the current morning is over. Thank you, everyone who participated in the current morning.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181647	Dear colleagues and colleagues continue to work, Report by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia on the European Council meetings held in 2019. The applicant shall be the President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. 11. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING IN 15.33 HOURS]] The Act on the Cooperation of HS and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on European Affairs. I welcome once again the President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, Andrej Plenkovic, and I ask him to submit an opening statement, please welcome the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181648	I am pleased that on the first day of the constitutional deadline for the start of this session, HS can discuss the start of the Croatian Presidency of the EU Council and present our programme and refer to the last meeting of the European Council held in December. I am particularly pleased that today's debate is just 15 January on the 28th anniversary of the international recognition of the Republic of Croatia, the 22nd anniversary of the peaceful, peaceful reintegration of the Croatian Danube. After just seven years. in EU membership, we have the task, honor and responsibility to assume the Presidency of the Council. It's a duty that only comes in 30 years. After the start of Croatian democracy, after the aggression against the Republic of Croatia, after the war of the great Serb aggression of Milosevic's regime has been imposed, there is a chance to be behind the helm of the second world economy, a community of half a billion people, a great achievement of the entire Republic of Serbia and a great recognition of all our citizens, especially those who gave the most for Croatian freedom, and these are Croatian defenders. Just when we look at today's EU, we can say that it is a community of sovereign states created as a peace and solidarity project in which more developed members help those less developed and in which the principle of solidarity manifests itself through all European policies. When we look at 2013, the Republic of Croatia received a clear 20 billion kuna from the European budget. The EU is a family of European people to whom the Croatian people are attached, is also attached to the Christian roots, has always belonged to that community and we share common goals and values, as well as a common future. Our partners today respect us more than ever, recognize our difficult path and respect the position of the Republic of Croatia. It was best said yesterday by the new European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen when she said that the Republic of Croatia had gone through a bloody battlefield to become the only heart of the EU today. We have prepared quality for this chairmanship over the past years, which of course implies full activity and mobilising of all levels of government and government and HS, resor, diplomacy, our diplomatic representations, we will have opportunities in these 6 months more than ever before in practice to see what European meetings, conferences, numerous topics on more than 200 meetings will be held in the Republic in the next 6 months, and our representatives will hold 1400 meetings in Brussels in this first half of the year. You have seen that last week, when the European Commission and the College visited the Republic of Croatia, we have also shown our cultural heritage, our music culture, the HNK, it was only the first signal from a rich cultural programme that will present the Republic of Croatia across European countries where we will present different aspects of our cultural production. The official programme of the presidency, you saw that we adopted in time, so in last year, we presented the priorities of October 30th at the National University Library, held 4 thematic conferences in Split, Osijek, Rijeka, Varazdin, presenting all the priority groups and Europe that are developing, a Europe that connects, which protects and makes Europe influential in the world. This is how we send key messages that we stand for. We are in favour of what our motto of the Presidency says, and this is a strong Europe in the world of challenges. We want the economically strong Europe to strengthen our countries, including the Republic of Croatia, and, of course, to improve the situation for our citizens. We want stronger European infrastructure, better and better quality human potentials, to strengthen the security of our citizens, and to make the Union a leader on a global stage based on the values we share. Therefore, our first priority for Europe, which is developing, implies sustainable and inclusive growth for all Member States, as well as for all regions within the Member States. In order to achieve development, we must further deepen the single market, support culture and investment permanently in innovation, especially follow the digital revolution, keep up with it and use all the benefits it brings, the growth on which the improvement cannot be maintained unless we constantly take care of the quality of life of all generations of citizens of the Union, which contributes to building a more vital society, especially through the creation of quality opportunities for young people in rural areas. In doing so, we also think about measures of demographic revitalisation that are not only important to Croatia, but are important for almost half of the EU members and are therefore included in our initiative in the EU strategic programme. Quality working and living conditions are also a prerequisite for a high-developed economy generator, a uniform and sustainable growth, and in this respect it should also be seen to combat climate change with all the opportunities it creates. It is precisely on this track that our task will be to monitor and assist the activities of the new EU Commission programme when it comes to the so-called. To the Green Plan, a document presented by the EU Commission only 11 days after the start of its mandate. Europe that connects is our second priority. The Union's progress depends on the networking of our economies and the exploitation of human potentials, as well as the creation of a single transport space. Digital networking, i.e. a common and secure data structure, is a key dimension of connectivity, one of the biggest challenges for the entire European economy. The integration of the Union's energy market through the establishment and implementation of the Energy Union is at the very top of our priorities. Here we see a special place to promote the role and potential of European islands in transition, according to energy sources pure from carbon emissions. Of course, connectivity is not worth much if we do not connect even better and strengthen our citizens, primarily through education, culture, sport, with a special emphasis on young generations and their mobility. Dear MPs and MPs, a Europe that protects, is our third priority because growth and integration can only be achieved under safety conditions. European citizens have repeatedly stressed that safety is of the utmost importance to them. This shows most of Eurostat's, for example, research. That is why we plan to strengthen internal security, but also to protect external borders more effectively. Already now, Croatia's border police, which is the most numerous in Europe, proportionally speaking, have 6500 people, effectively safeguards our long border using the latest technology without walls and barbed wires with respect to all legal frameworks and international conventions. A comprehensive and sustainable migration policy is possible only if Europe projects its strength far enough to remove the main causes that create waves of migration. Security today is multidimensional and involves much more than physical threats. It also includes the fight against organised crime, terrorism, violent extremism, the protection of financial markets and judicial institutions, the improvement of system interoperability, one of the priorities is strengthening the Union's civil protection mechanisms and an effective response to disasters. This area is more important every day, in light of natural disasters as a consequence of climate change. Dear MPs and MPs, our freedom and democracy are an example of many in the world. Our values projected and with the help of instruments, issued, development and humanitarian aids result in a European voice being heard and heard worldwide. The protection of our systems against hybrid and cyber threats, the key to protecting critical infrastructure and the public in general, and raising resilience to external threats surrounds the concept of a Europe that protects. Influenced Europe, our fourth priority. Europe today is the leading international factor in promoting multilateralism, global trade and international law-based order. Europe's credibility in promoting the fundamental values of human rights has no cross in the world. In the fight against climate change, the Union plays a role as a global leader. The Union will continue to strengthen transatlantic relations as well as build bridges with other continents and countries. Today there is no part of the world that is not important for the Union. It is of particular importance that our immediate neighbourhood in Southeast Europe, candidate countries and potential candidates for membership. We will also take care of the countries of the Eastern Partnership, it is about Armenia, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Georgia, Moldova and Ukraine, and in June, after the EU Council meeting in Brussels, we will organise a summit with these six countries. In addition to these 4 pillars, several key political tasks are still on the agenda at the beginning of the EU's institutional cycle. The first is the agreement on a new multiannual financial framework. The key is to make that deal happen on time. It is a budget for the next 7 years, it must respond to citizens' expectations, the expectations of all Member States, to monitor the ambitions of the new EU Commission programme. It should continue to finance cohesion and agricultural policy, but also be able to respond to what we call modernising European policies and budgets, and these are new challenges. The funds for climate change and security and innovation should also be found in this respect. It is important in this context that we take care not only of our unity, but also of the differences between Member States, economic, social and demographic. Together with EU President-in-Office of the Council, who also stayed in Croatia last week, we will continue the talks at the highest political level, make efforts to reach steps towards the conclusion of this framework during the six months. The fact that the highest level of the negotiations will be taken over by the permanent EU president in Croatia's interest. In this way, we have more room for manoeuvre to represent national views, which is essentially good and positive, and we can play our part with active assistance to complete this agreement at the level of the General Affairs Council, at the level of permanent representatives, at the level of trilogues between the Council, the Commission and the European Parliament. The second priority is the completion of the process of orderly, orderly withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the EU. It is a process which, following the final ratification in the United Kingdom, comes to the agenda of European institutions, we are on our part ready to take the appropriate decisions to the General Affairs Council on 28 January and also to agree to the European Parliament and ultimately to the written procedure that will end the whole process so that the new agreement will be in force on 1 February and the Union will no longer have 28 but 27 members. Our task, very important, is that as chairman of the Council we take care of the preparation of a new negotiating framework for a future relationship agreement, and these future relations with the transitional provisions of this withdrawing Treaty should be regulated, negotiated, negotiated by the end of this year. I hope that we will achieve that goal, theoretically there is the possibility of extending that deadline, but only at the request of the United Kingdom until the end of June. The content of this contract must be written in a way that covers those areas that are truly realistic to complete the negotiations. With trade policy, fisheries policy, the management of these relations, security issues, there are still a few aspects that are realistic for the agreement to be reached in a fairly short time, and this is about unprecedented negotiations because of course we have not had such a situation so far. We therefore want this first contractual relationship to be the basis for building future partnership relations based on mutual respect. The third important element is the issue of enlargement policy, we decided to host a summit in Zagreb on 6 and 7 May between the EU leaders and the heads of state of Southeast Europe, the ambition we have is that after 20 years. Since the first Zagreb summit, which was held here at the initiative of French President Chirac and then the Union had only 15 members, and on the other hand the table was 6 countries, the only successful story is the Republic of Croatia, we are the only one who has moved from one side of the table to the other side of the table and that direction has determined our transformative development path over the past two decades. Therefore, taking into account the specific knowledge we have towards this area, the relations we have with us neighbouring or almost neighbouring countries, and the knowledge we possess about the current degree of their approach to the Union, we want to send a message of cooperation, acceleration of dynamics, putting such regular meetings on the agenda every 2nd year, only in this way will the appropriate political impulse with the highest level allow for a better reform process and ultimately a better, better way to conduct negotiations. What we want each of the countries that come to Zagreb to meet the set criteria, that each of the countries is valued on the basis of its individual achievements, we have a special responsibility towards BiH, the neighbouring country with which we are connected in both historical and economic, commercial and geographical terms, and we also have the fact that in BiH, the Croatian people are constitutive and that we constantly advocated their equality, which is rare in terms of both here and here in HS, and therefore we will also question a further European... BiH's path takes special care. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] We also want to be active now, preferably before this summit in Zagreb, to find a solution for the deblocking of negotiations with Northern Macedonia and Albania. Several countries, a very small circle of countries had reserves in October, you know which countries they were talking about, we are having talks at the highest level to get to that blockade, to the deblockation, is one more conceptual character, and the other two are more specifically focused on the level of meeting the criteria of these two countries. I think the current talks lead in the right direction, and what we expect is the European Commission's proposal on the modification and methodology of the enlargement process, and then an additional report on meeting the criteria. When we put all this together on the table, then we can expect that there is a common ambition of all actors to make the Zagreb summit successful and to be recorded as a kind of turning point in the further dynamic of the relationship in the decade ahead. The fourth major political topic is the Conference on the Future of Europe. It is an initiative for which, in the conclusions of the European Council in December, the Republic of Croatia has received a very clear task of coordinating and preparing the position of all members of the Union in order to reach an agreement in an interinstitutional discussion between the European Parliament and the Council on the launch of this process aimed at one inclusive way, in an overall manner, in a period of approximately 2 g. which is ahead of us, bringing Europe closer to the citizens, to avoid the scenarios that we had in the United Kingdom in the future, to touch those key political issues of a kind of fracture between the EU project, the good that brings and the feelings of not many members where part of our citizens feel disfellowshipped, thus developing a negative attitude accordingly. In order to prevent this from happening among other things, and this debate in HS that we are conducting throughout the mandate of this HS. We want the Republic of Croatia to have a leading role in this process not only because Dubravka Shuica, as our Vice-President of the Commission, was in charge of the Conference on the Future of Europe and today held a debate in Strasbourg on behalf of the Commission on the subject, but because we believe that after Brexit it is necessary and crucial for the whole continent. Our international position in the context of these priorities will strengthen. You've seen the dynamics of bilateral relations and meetings at the highest level. We have practically held meetings in the past six months with almost all key colleagues from France, Germany, Italy, Poland, Greece, the Czech Republic, Ireland, Austria, Bulgaria, Romania, Latvia and, of course, all European institutions and all leaders of our neighbouring countries, so politically and diplomatically we enter into these six months prepared to address all those issues that are on the agenda through intensive dialogue. As for this last summit meeting that was held in December, since I have reported these previous several times by the Parliament, I will only mention briefly what were the topics that were most important in our debate. The first was a very substantive debate on climate change, on climate neutrality until 2050, on the multi-annual financial framework, on the Conference on the Future of Europe, with the presentation of a report by European Parliament President David Sassoli, who, among other things, spoke about the very content and quality of the conference of the President of the European Parliament in Zagreb in mid-December and early December. All these topics have also revealed several different views on the issue of climate neutrality in view of the different historical context of economic development, the structures of the industries that individual members have, financial implications and means to achieve this objective, some countries are in a position to adopt more sharply, more quickly, the carbon neutrality objectives by 2050 while some have certain reserves. They want more precise calculations, they want to see funds and mechanisms that will in a way compensate these investments and this topic is on the agenda, and it will be touched through so-called. a mechanism for a fair transition. When it comes to the multiannual financial framework, I will repeat this once again, it is really important for everyone to be clear about what about four positions are currently negotiating, one is the Commission's initial proposal from 2018 on the total volume of 1,114, the second is the position of several very conservative netocontributors in the European budget that want the total volume of detachment from the European budget to be less than 1%. Positions of countries so-called A friend of cohesion who wants more funding for agriculture and cohesion policy because they are still in the phase as we are catching up with those developed who want more funding. And ultimately, the most ambitious positions of the European Parliament that wanted an amount that was approximately 1.3%. What will now take place within these four positions will try to find a solution which, as always as it will be, will be a compromise and will allow us to adopt in time the budget, to start implementing it and to implement operational programmes and to find a solution based on a compromise on the total amount of gross national income that will enable effective implementation of European policies and added value, above all, on the economic development of all Member States. It was precisely on that trail that the résumé was given by the Finnish Presidency, and as of this week, consultations between the Member States began to call for a meeting of the European Council on this subject. Finally, we expect as the Government that the Croatian Parliament in its parliamentary activities, and I know that early next week, the planned meeting of Cossacks here in Zagreb is given as representatives a quality of pain to our positioning in the EU, that the parliamentary dimension of the activities is also visible and that, acting complementaryly in the next six months, Croatia acquires and strengthens the position it currently has. I can say that yesterday's presentation of the programme in the European Parliament by the vast majority of serious political groups and MPs was very well received both by the President of Parliament and by the President of the European Commission. What everyone sees, sees how much energy we invest, how much our priorities are embedded in a way that is complementary and strategic to the Union programme adopted in June on the European Council, how much they are on the line and in line with the ambitions of the European Commission programme for the next five years, how good is the continuation of the work of the three representative offices in which we participated, that is, Croatia and Finland before and before Romania. The 18 - month period was also mirrored in our program. What we would like to see as the final result after these six months, which is to try to achieve several important goals. One is almost certain, we will conclude the release of the United Kingdom and it will remain, two to come to the very end, or maybe even conclude negotiations on the multiannual financial framework, three to put the Zagreb summit at the top in a certain way, the enlargement policy into a new context a better structured and affirmative context than it has been since our membership in 2013 and beyond because practically the real visible progress of any member was not the fourth to restore optimism and interest Croatian citizens, but also European citizens for Europe more than it was today through the event of the Conference on the Future of Europe. These four points, plus the serious work on a package called the Green Plan, with progress on migration-related policies, through which we will prepare further steps for our Schengen area, a further plan for deepening the internal market, preparation of Croatia in the final and continuation of the path towards the European Course Mechanism two and finally implementation of the EU Strategy, are gradually all steps that we will strengthen and strengthen during this period that is now ahead of us. In terms of internal benefit, hence the maturity of the institutions of the Government, the Croatian Parliament, the restor, diplomatic services, inter-resorship coordination, a series of activities to be undertaken, we will have a responsibility that we have not had so far. So far we have always looked at how to achieve some of our interest, now we are putting a different dioptria on our glasses, taking into account the general interest of the EU, taking into account the balance of different Member States' views, regardless of their size, their strength and their role, and we will have to show all of our political and diplomatic skills so that the overall impression that can begin very well, because practically several of these important major events are already behind us, so also the Conference of the President and the College and the President of the European Council and the presentation in the European Parliament and contacts with the most important members plus the beginning of parliamentary work, for now we have more than clear, firm support and sympathy for our partners to realize the programme that we are seeing, you get it all in your boxes or tables, we realize it in a way that is good for Croatia and for Europe. And what is most important to us and why we do this all the time for Croatian citizens. This is our final goal for those of these six months to recognize even better why this project we entered, which we have sought for the last 30 years is good and beneficial for Croatia. That's the point of our presidency. As far as infrastructure is concerned, I am personally pleased that we have decided to complete a major project of the National and University Library and what we have received from this conference and congress hall will remain Croatia, the city of Zagreb, forever. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181649	I thank the Prime Minister. We've got 17 replicas. He's the first fellow Bull. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181650	Thank you very much. In your presentation, you have concluded in the end that the EU's general interest in Croatia... is of general interest, however, I would ask you a little rope. Here we have today as you have announced and what has come to the EU presidency of the Republic of Croatia, but the fact is that what the people expect is whether the problems that would be needed will be solved. We need to know that we have an unresolved exclusive economic belt, that since this year agricultural land can buy foreign legal and physical persons until the Croats in Hungary can't. Of course, demographic measures are very important that today we have two-thirds of Croatia empty 6.6% of foreign remittances and that this is a catastrophic situation. Two-thirds of Croatia are empty. What will you, in the narrow interest of solving these questions? And more of course, I'll have an individual discussion on behalf of the club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181651	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181652	Your Honor, Mr. Bull. We're always working both ropes and wider. In terms of concrete operational activities in the mandate of this government, when it comes to the benefits of EU membership, I think that a large number can also criticise it, but can see what is better than before, from the absorption of funds, the implementation of projects, direct payments, investment in rural development. Otherwise, the transition period according to the accession contract for agricultural land is up to 2023, and that's what I'm thinking once on occasion here and talk about and talk about. Croatia invests in numerous projects of its own infrastructure through EU membership in any case and through other European financial institutions. The benefits are at every turn and in a narrow sense we will continue to work on that individual plan just as committed as we have so far. And this is a wider task to emancipate how good this is and to support it because this is a useful project.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181653	Thank you. Comrade Grmo, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181654	Thank you. Your Honor, Prime Minister. You have talked about EU enlargement, so in the negotiating framework from the EU's general views on Serbia, the pace of the negotiations has been found to depend "on Serbia's progress in meeting its membership requirements in particular in Chapter 23. Justice and fundamental rights." Serbia opened one in June, another chapter in December, which means that the same rhythm continues negotiations although it does not seem to meet the requirements it has taken over in Chapter 23, so correct me if I am wrong. But I do not notice that Serbia is fulfilling obligations in determining the fate of missing persons or in the area of the rights of victims of Serbian camps. And my question is, why does Serbia continue negotiations in the same Rome and open chapters even though it does not meet the requirements of Chapter 23? Is it possible that the negotiating framework for Serbia or your government simply does not care that Serbia continues negotiations with the same rhythm even though it does not meet the obligations set out in Chapter 23? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181655	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181656	Your Honor, Mr. Grmoy. You always have one topic when it comes to the EU. What is good to know is that Croatia has been negotiating for five years and nine months. Serbia began negotiations in 2014 and has already exceeded the period we started and ended, so we opened everything, temporarily closed, and closed everything, ratified and became members. Serbia is not halfway there yet, is not halfway there. Why am I saying that? The process is stricter, harder, with much more filters. Our position is that when there are chapters that are not related to Chapter 23, we look at their measurement, and at the same time we use all mechanisms to invest both bilaterally and through European bodies dealing with these negotiations, pressure to address issues concerning missing persons, you saw this last year, as well as all other residual issues that remained from the time of Milosevic's aggression. And that's what we'll continue. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181657	Comrade Zekanovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181658	Dear Prime Minister, in your presentation, you initially pointed out the Christian roots of Europe and how proud you are of these Christian roots. I must warn you that Christian roots are not what is currently happening in the EU and how your government is currently acting with you. A Christian today is not what your grandfather was, taking sacraments or great-grandfathers and doing nothing, especially in politics must be advocated for both Christian laws and Christian principles. I would like it while here you are now chairing, or the Republic of Croatia is chairing the EU Council, to use as a Christian, and you yourself have just said that you are proud of it, to use the presidency, and to advocate a little bit, for example. for the protection of life and at European level, and of course in Croatia it is your duty, but you have never done anything before.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181659	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181660	Here, Representative Zekanovic, you may find it interesting that on Monday, when this goat is held, we will receive the COMECE delegation, which is the European Bishop's Conference coming to visit the Republic of Croatia, to discuss with us exactly our programme, what we can do together about their views on what we do together. And you've accused me so many times in this House of putting too much emphasis on Europe, I should've gone one 10 times from the Republic of Croatia, dealt with something else, and none of it happened, and you and some others, and you and others. And why are we doing this? We work in the interests of the Republic of Croatia, Croatian citizens, our position, our values, and it would be good for you to, as at the time when you praised the work of our government, say it was the best government, how it goes in the legal direction, to remember it a little bit, look realistically at the substance and then say whether you are satisfied or not.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181661	Comrade Pernar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181662	Dear Prime Minister, you spoke i.e. Not you, others said when we entered the EU that corruption would ring, especially political corruption. However, I see that you are still in power, that since your entry into the EU it has not been ringing but rather that it has blossomed in spite of all the charges and trials that are being brought against the party that you are headed. And also, I'm curious when you were celebrating your entry into the EU, I asked you, Mr. Milan Bandic, or did they sit next to each other with Drazen Jelenić, the state's chief attorney, I ask you, Mr. Plenkovic, who actually gave a message to the Croatian public about how he's progressing in Croatia's fight against corruption, which is more than ever, and that there are no indictees or convicts who don't support you in the election? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181663	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181664	Dear Representative Pernar, I think you're best told by your performances, your social media announcements, your almost support for those who take justice into their own hands, your appeals that people don't split and a whole series of other brilliant ideas that you play in public space, but you live with them, I just listen to them and take them into knowledge and wonder where they come from so much creativity. So, you, and others, I think that today there was one representative here from the SDP who raised the subject, what was really fascinating to me, so you have a situation for the first time in history, 30. democracy, one wonderful event in HNK, then a wonderful event in HNK that impresses both domestic and foreign and then because of simple decisions, protocols, state precedents try to trivialize, banalize and consciousness who with whom he sits, it is representative Pernar irrelevant, equally as And that brilliant idea of yours I was talking about at the beginning. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181665	Comrade Ljubic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181666	... So, especially the way we started that presidency. [[Speaker not enabled]] Furthermore, without any courtoasia, I therefore express the satisfaction and recognition that you are gradually returning, so to focus on enlargement to Southeast Europe, so EU enlargement and also, therefore, putting on the agenda the most important issues for BiH, which is respect for constitutional rights of constitutional peoples, the right to choose their legitimate political representatives, which is the most important interest... So the Croatian people in BiH and I would like you to continue this way with the EU presidency, to return to focus, so EU enlargement to Southeast Europe, so if it is necessary to speak in French, you know that. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181667	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181668	Thank you very much, Ljubic, exactly, for putting it in focus and putting it in a way that will not be similar to what it was at a quality and good meeting in Sofia before 2nd, 2018, because then the main topic was connectivity, so the sectoral theme, project topic, infrastructure, digital, energy, whatever you want, our ambition is to be a political summit, with political messages, with a clear perspective on what the problems are, where we are going and at what speed we are going, and from the perspective of the Republic of Croatia, the situation in this process towards the EU of BiH is very important, and we will insist on this because the current structure of the more advanced Montenegro and Serbia, so slightly advanced Northern Macedonia and Albania, and at the beginning of BiH and Kosovo, is the motive for us to change this situation by taking account and for the situation of the Croats in BiH.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181669	Thank you. Comrade Lovrinović, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181670	Dear Mr Plenkovic, Britain is leaving the EU, which means that funds will be reduced in the European Funds, this means for the Republic of Croatia that it will receive less than EUR 100 million from the Guarantee Fund, 150 million from the Rural Development Fund, which means EUR 250 million less, which is around 900 kuna less. How do you intend to compensate for these funds because our agriculture is on its knees anyway, it was never worse to see, drop production and see from this description, I know that you have to spread optimism, so I would like to, but here it turns out that you are doing more for each other to expand the EU, so defend the interests of the Republic of Croatia, you see that we are not going to increase the funds from EU funds, but now you have to fight to keep the same, and we will get far less, indeed you are fighting hard for the interests of Croatian agriculture, Croatian people, but in particular Let these others go, they know each other for their own interests anyway... [[Intruder: Thank you]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181671	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181672	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Lovrinović, I thank you for wanting to teach me to fight for Croatian interests, I do, I think the results are already seen, this government, this is done by Croatian diplomacy, that is done by all well-intentioned Croatian and well-intentioned European representatives, but I appreciate the suggestion that we are doing it even more. If you noticed in my speech I said it was good for us to focus negotiating is in the hands of the permanent President of the European Council Charles Michel, it leaves us room bigger than it would be if we were fighting for Croatian interests and try to imagine what was the subject of talks with Ursula von der Leyen, Charles Michel, Johannes Hahn last week across the street. If you want me to tell you later because we don't have time for this right now, explain how we're fighting to make the funding in the next financial perspective for the Republic of Croatia enough to catch up with those who are more developed than we are.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181673	Comrade Sabolek, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181674	Thank you. Mr. Prime Minister, you presented the programme to the Croatian Presidency of the EU Council under the slogan "Strong Europe in a Full of Challenges". This time you pointed out how the Republic of Croatia wants to focus on addressing the problem of concerned European citizens. So how will you solve the problems of European citizens when you fail in your own country? I remind you, Mr. Prime Minister, your government is like a flow water heater, so many ministers haven't changed since the Government of Zlatko Mateš since 2016, you've changed your coalition partner, Mr. Prime Minister has no day to beg us for help, people are freezing in their own homes, you and your government obviously don't have priorities as well as the latest car affair, Mr. Prime Minister, and yet in order to talk about strong Europe, you need first to strengthen the state in which you are a statesman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181675	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181676	Thanks to the well-respected MPs on your suggestions, I experience them as well on purpose, so here we are doing the same thing, so we can say that at the end of the term of our government, for example, all employees in the state and public sector will have a salary of 18.3% before we become Government, that the minimum wage is higher by 100.00 EUR, that the average salary in Zagreb is almost EUR 1,000,00, that the average salary at the level of the Republic of Croatia has come to £6.500,00, that you have an investment credit rating, lower interest, for the country of lower interest for the economy, lower interest for the citizens, that we have obtained problems blocked with 4 legal proposals, and that goes to third reading because we want to know if there is anything else, that I am not talking about all the elements of solidarity of the projects of infrastructure investments and all that makes the achievements of this government, whether it's just so bad, let us citizens... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181677	Thank you. Comrade Mijic, here you go, Mišic excuse me, excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181678	Thank you, President HS. Dear Prime Minister, the EU presidency is a major step in the Republic of Croatia, it was nice to see how you presented the EU to the Republic of Croatia, I must confess openly and publicly, I was proud of it. Of course, we are the last country to enter Europe, that we need a lot of help and a lot of things to get rid of, you're behind and all of us for a strong Europe, you've mentioned infrastructure, I'm going to be a little boring, but we still don't have that, especially in the railways that I keep mentioning, and I hope that this year something will be done special to Slavonia. Of course, it is our priority for BiH because there are many Croats living there, we are a constituent people and I hope and believe in you that you will help us solve that part anyway and that our peoples who have not returned, especially my people in Bosnia's Pavina, return to their homelands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181679	Thank you, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181680	Thank you very much, Mišić, we have already discussed the issue of added value of EU membership several times, I thank you for these assessments that you think are good, this is an incentive to do even more, and as far as investment in rail infrastructure is concerned, we have said several times, in the period behind us, that has invested its, which European funds, which other financial institutions, huge amounts in highways, in airports, in sea ports, in fishing ports, there is no doubt that they are now on the railways' agenda. Example of two recents, Karlovac-Croatian Leskovac, Sveti Ivan Žabno-Gradac, a railway from Zagreb to Slavonia, according to Vinkovci, from where you are from, must be part of our priority and investment and faster communication through traditional east and towards Zagreb. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181681	Thank you. Comrade Zekanovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181682	Dear President HS, I request a break from the Croatian Sovereigns' Club for additional consultations on the report of Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic. First, I would say to my colleagues that Andrej Plenkovic is not the prime minister but is the Prime Minister. Boris Johnson is the prime minister. I was thinking whether I would answer to Mr Plenkovic, I asked a nice question that I did not get an answer, whether our Prime Minister thinks, while the chairman of the EU Council advocates life conservation, protection of life from conception, he boasted that soon a group of the European Bishop's Conference will come to Croatia. Great, here I want you to have a pleasant chat and have a nice lunch to show them the cultural sights of the city of Zagreb. And I'll repeat, the only thing I asked of you, will you as Prime Minister advocate what you declared to be, and that's what you said to the Christian roots. Perhaps the roots were your grandfather, your great-grandfather, the great-grandmother Christian, but there is no Christian leaves, so unfortunately there is nothing. I will repeat, as is your duty to implement the Constitutional Court decisions in Croatia, and the Constitutional Court's decision is to pass a new law, you will call it about abortion, I will call it a law on the protection of life as a declarative Christian, and you have just said that it is, it is your job to, and in the EU in particular as chairman, and while the Croatian Presidency of the EU Council advocates, to take life to protect itself from its conception. Once again, I want you and the bishops to have a good time in Zagreb and try to explain to them that you are a Christian, and that you are not to protect your life, I do not think it will pass.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181683	Is anyone else picking up? Then with that saying known Christian who I am to judge another, I'm giving a ten-minute break. It's the 16th 24th hour. We'll continue our work, colleagues and colleagues, please sit down. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 16,37 HOURS]] My colleagues and colleagues, please take your seats. Comrade Bačić, colleague Bulj, please take your seats. Now it's my fellow Replicator's turn, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181685	Croatian police are protecting Croatian borders, you said. But how does he protect them, Prime Minister, how does he protect them? Yesterday in Strasbourg, you had a lot of criticism about it. The president of the Green Lady Group. Keller told you, the property of migrants is being destroyed. They fight, shoot at them. This is not acceptable in any EU member state, but in any country anywhere. The Swedish representative is Mrs. Bjork told you, I quote, the brutality I witnessed was terrible. So, who I was a witness, not who I read about in some reports. Which I witnessed, it was terrible. Croatia will not enter Schengen until the situation with migrants is resolved. Well, Prime Minister, I'm asking you, when are you going to stop terrorizing these poor people who have escaped the war in the fight for a naked life? I know they're other religions and other skin colors, but they're people, Prime Minister. People. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181686	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181687	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I see that you are following the debate in the EU Parliament, I am pleased that you have singled out just those two quotes, the two MPs you are talking about, which means that you must have followed the whole, seen the general tone, the atmosphere and the reactions to the presentation of the priorities of the Croatian Presidency, but I thank you for that. I will repeat again, Croatia will not lift the razor wire, Croatia will not build barricades, especially towards Croats on the other side of the border in BiH. He won't. Croatia has trained 6500 police officers to safeguard the Croatian border, the EU's external border and the future external border of Schengen. In this process, it also respects its legal regulations and EU standards and international conventions. Any possible charge is investigated and sanctioned, and in this way we will continue to deal with what is called the protection of our borders. of illegal migration. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181688	Thank you. Comrade Vucelic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181689	Prime Minister, when do you intend to act by law and deliver to the President of the Living Wall a list of entry and exits into the March 2017 government building? Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181690	... answers. [[Specially enabled.]] Now it's time for my colleague, Bačić Ante. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181691	Thank you, President of HS, the Honorable President of the Croatian Government. .../incomprehensible/... Here are the MPs who followed the debate yesterday in the EU Parliament, we have seen that Croatia has received a number of commendations and has shown that the support and desire for the success of the Croatian presidency came from all political options, so here I congratulate you very much. Already today in the EU, Vice-President of the Commission, Šujica presented a conference on the future of Europe, which is what the Government of the Republic of Croatia can do to ensure that membership in the European family is felt by every citizen. More specifically, how will citizens right through the conference on the future of Europe be themselves co-creators of the same? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181692	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181693	Thank you very much, Mr. Bacic. As regards today's debate, therefore, the EU Parliament is one of those institutions that has first prepared its position and its position on the conference on Europe's future, they want it to be inclusive, that national parliaments participate, that citizens be as involved as possible, that it be also a conference character, but also a digital character, so online, and what we want as chairman and as Croatia, that this very large framework of broad debate on the political most important issues of the EU's functioning comes to Croatian citizens. Croatian citizens, even in other countries, are not very different situations, but our efforts must be even greater and still need a lot of information to be fully aware of what membership in the Union brings us, and we, as Government and through such discussions, and through a number of field activities, as well as conferences in Split on the priorities presented on the security of one of these For example, we will continue to do so. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181694	A colleague of the Ice creams.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181695	Dear Prime Minister, therefore, in your report, so you spoke about the EU's green policy. So yesterday and today, the data came out that Zagreb is one of the EU's most polluted cities. You probably know that there is an EU fund in which you can withdraw funds to solve transport infrastructure in urban areas and that your coalition partner Milan Bandić has not withdrawn one euro from the fund until the restoration of the rotor, and that is how in some way, the transport infrastructure in the city of Zagreb is solved and the consequences of this pollution of the city of Zagreb, where citizens are warned practically not to go out into the streets, especially in New Zagreb is just a bad policy, therefore, those funds that the mayor of Bandić did not withdraw.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181696	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181697	Thank you very much, Mr. Sladolev. I know very well what funds there are in the EU. The engagement of the Croatian Government, especially our Government, so if you want, the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure to help just develop the infrastructure of the city of Zagreb is a project of rotors. The Zagreb Rotor is about 330 million worth of project, 282 come from the EU budget, the rest is given by the Croatian government, one small contribution remained at the level of the city of Zagreb. So much for the government's contribution, if you want the HDZ to the city of Zagreb and its transport infrastructure. We will continue to partner with all units of local and regional self-government to help, support and monitor the implementation of projects that strengthen infrastructure. Everything we can improve in Zagreb and use European funds we will do. At the end of the line you have projects and trams and buses that are also from these concrete financial means.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181698	Comrade Dark Tarritash, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181699	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Prime Minister, it is good to mention climate change. So climate change, the climate crisis is certainly a test of the maturity of our civilization. It is good to mention it, but it is good to know where Croatia is. So in 2013, the EU adopted a strategy and at that time 15 members had adopted national strategies. At the moment, Croatia is in Bulgaria and Latvia's society, which do not have them. In 2017, we had a strategy in a public debate so that it would be withdrawn from the public debate. Again, we have a strategy on climate change adaptation, which I am talking about in the public debate in 2019, with the obligation to adopt in 2019, has not been adopted. It is financed by the EU transitional instrument for Croatia of EUR 770,000 We can only talk about climate change after the strategy is adopted [[Intruder: Thank you.]] where it's stuck, where it's stuck. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181700	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181701	Thank you very much. Representative Mrak Taritas, as you know, we adopted the Energy Development Strategy of Croatia this year, you may have noticed. You also follow public debate, you will also know that Croatia is above the EU average and set targets. Croatia already has 28% of renewable energy sources. So Croatia is in some elements and a leader. It's very important that you know. The Ministry of Environmental Protection is not the only one dealing with the climate plan or the green plan of the Ursula von der Leyen Commission, but we do have an entire working group in which all the resolutions are, because the plan is not just a matter of environmental protection, it is not just a question of energy. The plan is in the future a transformation instrument for the development of the Croatian economy as well as for the development of the entire economy in EU member states. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181702	Here you go, pal Klisovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181703	Thank you very much, President. Dear Prime Minister, Croatia holds the presidency of the EU Council. Thus, the international public's attention as well as the Croatian public is much stronger and much more watched by every move of Croatian authorities. Europe was built a free, democratic Europe after winning over fascism that has committed many crimes against a man especially in concentration camps. The 75th anniversary of the release of Auschwitz is recorded on January 27th. The only EU country that has not confirmed its participation, especially at the level of heads of state or government, is Croatia. So I ask you why? Why did Croatia not confirm participation in such an important event?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181704	Answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181705	You were here 10 minutes ago, Agent Klisovic, if you had asked me, I would have told you that we were going, we informed the organizers. I don't know where you get that information from. What I can tell you, so the Secretary of State will be from the Ministry of Science at one event in Auschwitz seems to me January 20th or 21st, the President of the Republic goes to Jad Yours, I will personally go to Auschwitz on January 27th. And we've known that for weeks. I don't know, I don't know where that data came from. What? ... Okay, that's probably some technical question I don't know about, but I've known about this since we got the call. [[Intruder: You don't understand.]] Okay, well, is it clear now, is everything okay?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181706	Comrade Babic Ante, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181707	Thank you, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Croatian Prime Minister, therefore, in the programme of the Croatian Presidency of the EU Council, relations with the Swiss Confederation are particularly stressed. So through these relations, it is said that Croatia will pay particular attention to this and work to find solutions related to the signing of an agreement between the EU and the Swiss Confederation. Since some 70,000 of our citizens live in Switzerland, I would like to say, if you can, in fact, what will be in the agreement on the institutional framework between the Swiss Confederation and the EU. Just for the sake of the citizens, it's informative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181708	Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181709	Thank you, beautiful representative Babić, I met in 2019 twice with Ueli Maurer, who was in Croatia a few months ago, I think last time we met in Switzerland at the beginning of last year. The subject that is dispute and what is the problem is double. So the real issue between Switzerland and the EU concerns some issues from the financial sector, and there are open issues that have currently blocked the negotiations in this institutional agreement. What you are alluding is the status of Croatian citizens and the freedom of movement that we have talked about several times. In this direction, we will also try as chairman to take one step further in relations with Switzerland throughout the EU, and then given this aspect of which you mean that there is a lot of our citizens living up there. That's our goal. We'll try to unblock that one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181710	And the last replica of my colleague Branko Bacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181711	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Prime Minister, I assume that very few representatives, the Croatian public is certainly not familiar with the announcement that the University of California of Berkeley has announced between the two rounds of elections that Croatia is among the 11 most tolerated countries in the world, between Germany, Austria, Ireland, Norway, etc. At the same time as an obscenity British weekly announces that Croatia is the most corrupt state of Eastern Europe, it becomes mantra in the Croatian public. When on the sidelines of European bodies are mentioned as a picnic news that corruption is growing in Croatia it is becoming mantra by the SDPs, as you saw this morning during the current morning, MPs raise to the level of European Commission's decision to warn Croatia. So I'm interested in how you, as Prime Minister, see this state of mind in which any positive news was based on scientific data in Croatia silenced, and these mantras raise to the level of absolute truth?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181712	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181713	Dear Representative Bacic, it's as if you're asking me whose policy is truly normal in this country. That's the real question. In fact, the question between perception and facts, truth and spin, impressions and what is really done but the simple situation is such, all colleagues and colleagues, and some actors on the international scene also use the smallest element to make sure that Croatia, Government, the ruling party glues some labels. In this exercise with constant repetition, as we hear today, when from all three hours ago, here is Agent Stazic to remember only this little detail to draw this out as an important message in the context of the whole debate to the European Parliament. But we also heard his statements really interesting about unfinished business on Mr. Beljak's trail, and then all that together, I'd say, falls into the labeling phase. Corruption and intolerance, a question that's tolerable and who's not in the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181714	Thank you. Now let's go fellow Bully request for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181715	Thank you very much, President. My colleagues and colleagues. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the MOST Club for ten minutes on this subject. I would just once again warn the Prime Minister and all of us MPs and the public about the problem of illegal migrants entering and crossing the border uncontrollably, doing enormous damage in the area and Dalmatian burns and like essentially within the entire area of our 1,000-mile border that controls and honorably does its job to 6,500 police officers, but not enough number. The prime minister has passed a law where the Croatian Army can help the police and defend our borders and is obliged to secure it under the Constitution. You are obliged to ensure the safety of our citizens and the safety of our property. Unfortunately, this Croatian Parliament did not have the opportunity to discuss the Marrakech compact because not only was Prime Minister Plenkovic gentlemen from HDZ and you from the SDP not only would he be for the Marrakek compact and you, and you were not in favour of discussing the Marrakech compact in Parliament. Budenstage German was arguing. EXECUTOR Plenkovicev is Miro Kovac, who did not allow Parliament Vice-President Bozo Petrov's proposal to vote on him on the board, and is now opposed to Andrej Plenkovic. Neither Davor Ivo Stier nor Milosevic were any of you to discuss our Parliament here, the Marrakech Compact Parliament. Borders are insecure, people don't feel safe. In Vrgorec, I witnessed a man's car being stolen from a garage by the house at two o'clock a.m. Who's gonna pay him for the damage? People are scared. Prime Minister, you are obliged and obliged to respect the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and protect the security of our citizens. The army at the border. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181716	Thank you very much. Ten minutes, till 17.05. It's 4:55 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181717	My colleagues and colleagues, the break is up, I ask you to take your seats. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 17.07 HOURS]] On behalf of the Representatives' Club, the first person should speak for a respected representative, Josko Klisovic, I don't see him here. Here he comes. Please welcome fellow Klisovic, therefore, on behalf of SDP's Club of Representatives, a respected representative, Josko Klisovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181718	Thank you very much, Vice President. I wanted to welcome the Prime Minister, but I hope he's coming soon because what I'm saying is I'd like him to hear it. Of course I also welcome my associates. Here's the Prime Minister. As he enters only to show once again the dissatisfaction of my club, and I believe other representatives that we have not received materials for this item in the morning, so until we read them we no longer have time to consult within the club and I think that practice should finally be interrupted, that the materials for this important item of the agenda we get on time anyway. Today is January 15th, so the day the EU has recognised Croatia and it really needs to be remembered again exactly how important it was for this recognition to breathe life into the emerging state. And in that sense, I think the Parliament should mention it once more. Inside the EU today, there are peoples who are also fighting for their country even though they live in multinational countries, although they themselves accept the EU as a project that is also multinational and multicultural, which only confirms how qualitatively the European project is and how it actually meets the needs of the development of peoples living in EU territory. Dear Prime Minister, yesterday you presented the priorities of the Croatian Presidency in Strasbourg. I must admit that I was very pleased to hear that sentence of yours when you said that Croatia did not choose barbed wire in the context of the migrant crisis. Of course, you made it clear that you are continuing the continuity of Milanovic's government's migrant policy, or former Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic, the newly elected president. But I must note that we did not have a special agenda item in this assembly dedicated to the priorities of the Croatian Presidency. We have somehow always made it through various points so that the European Parliament has received full insight until the Croatian Parliament has had the opportunity. I don't think that's good. Although the foreign minister was in the Committee on European Affairs yesterday and presented priorities and the government's programme in this context, but very late. I think parliamentary representatives should have joined not only as listeners to what the government has prepared but actively in defining Croatian priorities for the presidency. Moreover, today to present priorities is pointless, especially as they have already been presented in the University National Library, and this is precisely why these parliamentary representatives in bilateral talks with delegations from other countries also represented these priorities. So, today talking about them is sooner, too late. In the context of the EU Council Presidency, European values are important to us and we cannot just talk about them in Europe and remain word-level, we must live them in our daily political and civil life here in Croatia. In this context, I would like to mention or remind myself of certain positions of the SDP, relevant to these current events that we have had these days in the media area, which I have made very clear today by the Prime Minister himself, very clearly, in my conversation with Mr. Beljak. So, as for the executions that took place in the former state, and in the context of today's Europe and the position of the SDP, I will now read the two, three sentences relevant in the SDP's historical declaration, it's the official SDP document, it's the SDP's position on this issue so that someone doesn't put something else in our mouth. Anyone who comes out of the box of what I'm about to read does not transfer the position of the SDP, and we also ask all of our partners to agree if otherwise very difficult to move on. So, from the 1990 Declaration. The SDP, which is still in force and has never been put out of force and will not be put out of force. "Political volunteerism and examples of uncontrolled violence were during a war and wartime," says II. The world war "but also later when political opportunities were stabilised and the way in which they were managed could not justify anything. This includes illegal executions and harsh repression towards war-beating military and political opponents. One-sided, negative attitude towards Croatian migration, rough calculations, excommunications, persecution and closure of people of different political beliefs, especially those who have explicitly represented a national position, trials for verbal delinquencies and political action that is otherwise not incriminating in democratic societies."The SDP is determined and clearly distanced from such political practice because it is considered incompatible with its fundamental commitment to political democracy and the economy, the market economy. The SDP considers it a moral and political duty to publicly apologize to all those wronged for political reasons, done harm or injured dignity by the authorities in... Period. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We know that most of the members of the Alliance of Communists ended up in HDZ and smaller in the SDP but there, the SDP took that step. We all know that we also voted in an independent referendum, so 93% of our citizens, including SDPs and younger generations, were not members of that party at all, and today they are members of the SDP. Keep going. The SDP will advocate public respect for everything that is positive in our political heritage as well as for the judgment of certain events and personalities in the historical context. Please, this is the position of the SDP and when someone is talking about a soft SDP reaction to an execution in the former state, then please stick to exactly what I've just read. So, the convictions that the SDP had made publicly about this in 1990. Because what we stand for is, of course, unity, the unity of Croatian citizens that we consider to be spent in the Homeland War. To question him is really not correct, and in this war with equal love and equal heart, they defended both right and left, either as doctors, either as men with a rifle in a trench and let's not ask you to question these things, and that is one of the most important legacy, political legacy of the first Croatian President Dr. Franjo Tudjman, and that is why we hold him to this unity and this balance which he has achieved in his actions as a pledge to the better future of this country. So once again, everything the SDP says about these issues has to be based on what I'm saying right now. And I think this position is in the context of European values. And now I would like to ask Mr. Prime Minister to answer the same question in the context of European values, to comment on the statements of senior HDZ officials that were given during the presidential campaign which was of course everything, many things I will forget, are part of the campaign, but some statements are particularly serious and I think it is clear that you have talked to Mr. Beljak today, whether HDZ is politically behind such statements or not, or those statements are not part of HDZ's policy. One statement by the president of the Split HDZ, Mr. Skoric, our fellow MP from the parliamentary bench, which is that Croats and only Croats vote for HDZ candidate in the presidential elections, which suggests that those who do not vote are not Croats. Or a statement by HDZ deputy president, Mr. Millian Brkic, also a parliamentary representative and vice-president who divided the people in Croatia into Jude and those who did not. I'm guessing it's straight-up. Well, those who voted for Mrs. Kolinda Grabar Kitarovic, the HDZ candidate, is a superstitious one, I guess, and the rest are Jude. So less than a million people are righteous and everyone else is Jude. Is that HDZ policy because I saw that you responded very quickly to Mr. White but I didn't see you react to these two statements. And we want to know if those statements are on the line of the current HDZ policy. Also, Mr. Prime Minister, in this context, it should be kept in mind when monuments are raised to this country and you send ministers to mark this ceremony, people who are EU members sentenced to long-term prison sentences for murder. Yes, these people joined Croatia's defences in the Homeland War, no one disputed, and at the same time they have convictions in EU members for murder. As for getting back to the priority program. The rule of law, or internal security, you said it was one of the priorities. We see what is the situation in Croatia today, you call them incidents, so the situation in Split where one individual took justice into his own hands and committed a crime. We can talk about incidents as well as the incident that when it is rooting for a "guilty club" to get beat up but I do not want to talk about incidents but about the reaction of the Croatian public. If 15 000 people in Split are mobilised to protest then they are not protesting for murder, they are protesting insufficiently the functioning of Croatian institutions. If 30 or 40,000 people in Zagreb are gathered for violence against women in the family, then they are protesting nothing but insufficient quality work of the Croatian state institutions to prevent such practice and require stronger engagement and more quality engagement. If people, 50,000 of them, are gathered for educational reform in Ban Jelačić Square, then they protest that the education system is not working and they want it to work. So our country systems don't work at the level of quality these citizens require, and therefore the incidents are just an indication that things don't work out but the systems don't work and as Prime Minister, I think you have to deal with it in particular. As regards Croatia's engagement in the capacity of the EU Presidency. One of the goals is Europe, which is very good. I would like to know, given that at European borders there are quite a lot of instability, from Libya, Ukraine, where things have not been resolved, to Iran and this crisis that we currently have, and the European position and some leadership role we still do not see. In what way do we materialise this goal of making Europe more influential during our presidency, especially given that the Council of Ministers is not chaired by our foreign affairs but by the High Commissioner for Foreign Policy, and the European Council is led by its President, Charles Michele, in which way do you really intend to materialise this very priority, which makes Europe more influential in a series of political crises that surround us, which nobody is fond of? As far as the Western Balkans are concerned, I think the story is quite clear and that there is agreement and opposition and the ruling coalition on the need to allow northern Macedonia and Albania to start negotiations as soon as possible. You mentioned that high-level talks were held in Paris which is very good and we welcome that, but you didn't tell us if there are any shifts in the position of France which is defacto the key in the resistance that provides that the date of the negotiations is given to these countries, so I would be interested if you could just tell us a little bit more about how France breathes after the talks you had with President Macron? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181719	The next Club of Representatives is the HDZ on behalf of which the respected representative, Domagoj Ivan Milosevic, will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181720	Thank you, Vice-President HS, Prime Minister with co-workers, I welcome you all and I think that in today's day when we mark the 28th anniversary of international recognition, there is still a strong symbol that we are discussing the report with the European Council and at the moment that the Republic of Croatia has taken over the presidency of the EU Council and regardless of whether in this assembly or in the public who is for or against the EU or other EU, I think that we can all be proud of it together. Let me first of all point to the importance of the parliamentary dimension at the beginning of this presentation because there is a parliamentary dimension for the Croatian Presidency of the EU Council. As chairman of the European Affairs Committee this week, so on January 19th and Monday 20th, I will host a meeting of the presidents, so to speak. Kozaka, this is a conference of the EU's Parliament's Committee on Jobs. The meeting of President Kozak will be the first of 5 meetings or 5 conferences to take place within the parliamentary dimension of our presidency. The parliamentary dimension will be completed on the 63rd plenary meeting of Kozak on 24th to 26th May in Zagreb this year. In addition to these two meetings of Kozak, HS will host three other events, or our parent committees. First, on 18 and 19 February 2020 in Brussels, the Interparliamentary Conference on Stability and Economic Co-ordination of Management in the EU, then on 2 to 4 March the Interparliamentary Conference on the Common Foreign and Security Policy and the Common Security and Defence Policy in Zagreb and the fifth meeting of this parliamentary dimension will also be held in Zagreb on 22 and 23 March, a meeting of the Joint Group on Parliamentary Oversight of the EU Agency for the Co-operation of Law Implementation, so-called, you heard that, Europol. The HS will select topics and speakers at meetings and conferences hosted by us to contribute naturally to the achievement of our Croatian Presidency goals. At a meeting of President Kozak on Monday (January 20th), the Prime Minister will personally present the priorities of Croatia's presidency to the EU Council and I thank him for that. At the second session of the meeting of Presidents Kozak, the EU, the National Parliaments and Kozak, we will host the Vice-President of the Commission. Shuicu, who will discuss the conference on the future of the EU, and the first vice-president of the European Parliament, Mrs. Mairead McGuinnes. At the last meeting of this format, therefore, Kozak in Helsinki has shown great interest for all of us, so representatives from the national parliaments for participation in this conference on the future of the EU, so also individual and national parliaments, or the whole of the Committee on Europe. A plenary meeting of Kozak will be open in May to discuss the implementation of the priorities of the Croatian presidency, but with emphasis on the results of the EU summit and the Western Balkan states that will take place in early May in Zagreb. In addition, there will be 4 more topics, the first topic will be the transformation of the labour market, Single Leiber Market, the management of demographic imbalances and labour mobility within the EU. Let me have a little dyspression, so it's been happening for decades and it's developing so-called. the single market and, of course, it was expected that as the single market develops, the single capital market, at some point they will attract more and more people, more and more people, especially from the EU's periphery. To this, regardless of the problems that exist in some parts, and this is not only the east of Europe or us, so similar problems have much richer countries like Italy, so such problems as the outflows of the population, especially that of the young, educated and ambitious part of the population, we think that the problem of the entire EU is, especially today, in the context of talking about the multiannual financial framework, so I think that we should discuss reducing cohesion funds for less developed at the same time as you drag away, I mean the competitiveness of the national economy, and I am not accusing the Germans, but that is the fact that you are dragging young and ambitious people from many EU Member States, that is, if we are working together, then it is and it must be the problem of all Member States and the EU itself, as it is also a question of asylum policy, so at a time when they are moving to some other countries, and this asylum, with great respect for young people in particular, would be a political debate. The third topic at the COSAC meeting in May will be the distribution effects of the EU budget, followed by the European Integrated Chamber Approach and the rights and obligations in the digital space, how to reconcile privacy and accountability in the virtual world. By choosing these topics for the COSAC meeting, we wanted to include natural issues and all four top priorities of the Croatian presidency. Europe that is developing, Europe that connects, Europe that protects and influences Europe. Given the review of the report from the European Council's break last year, it is clear why the Croatian Presidency chose its priorities and we continue to respond through this parliamentary dimension to the current European challenges. The topics that dominated the last meeting of the European Council held in December last year will, of course, dominate our presidency over the next six months and I will seek a relatively short transition through several key topics. There's already been enough talk of climate change today, but allow me a few sentences. So, in December, the European Commission announced the European Green Plan, a communication that sets a very ambitious goal for the EU to achieve EU climate neutrality by 2050. The Commission wants to respond with this plan to the challenges arising from the reality of climate change, while at the same time keeping in mind a new strategy for economic growth. However, the key concept of the European Green Transition Plan seems to be, in terms of transition towards renewable energy sources and climate neutrality. It is clear from the discussions so far that there is awareness of the different willingness of Member States to make such a transition. We support the achievement of climate neutrality by 2050, however, I stress that achieving this goal must not further deepen the differences in development between Member States nor increase the quality of life and the standard of its citizens. I especially stress again from the perspective of young people and not just young people, people in the '40s and '50s are not so young people in other Member States anymore. The second is the multiannual financial framework. As expected, the adoption of a new multiannual financial framework was transferred to the Croatian presidency after the Finnish Presidency failed to reach a compromise aimed at reconciliation of the financing of traditional policies, primarily cohesion policy, common agricultural policy and new challenges to the EU such as migration, climate change and energy transition. In the debate on the financing of traditional policies, Croatia is placed in countries of friends of cohesion unlike Finland, which is a friend of better spending whatever it means, so Finland is a net payer. This definition is clearly distinguished in the Finnish proposal for a multiannual financial framework with proposed cuts in part of cohesion policy, but in border management and European defence. With the Croatian chairmanship of the portfolio of the multiannual financial framework, he returned to a friend of cohesion, so to us, however, we would like to open a debate on cohesion policy from the perspective of the benefits of this policy for countries and net payments. It is not necessary to know much about the economy so that it is clear to you that those who are the net creditors of both the richest and most competitive EU countries have direct and indirect benefits from these cohesion funds. It would be very interesting, and I will return once again to this, given that an initiative has been launched right from our Committee on European Affairs and we have asked EUROSTAT to at least project the impact of cohesion funds on all Member States, so the net payers also. Finally, the third issue of the EU in relation to Africa, Northern Macedonia, Albania, therefore, is the issue of enlargement. As soon as possible, as far as Africa is concerned, I think I've read that the growth of EU funds from the budget for Africa is projected, while I think that's what I was already saying here in the assembly that this is not the right way because if you want some help, then teach him how to fish, and don't send him fish with half that fish back somewhere else when we talk about Africa. However, what is certain is that the issue of Africa and the next decade will be the pathways of the EU, the issue of political and economic transition of the good part of the African continent will have a direct impact on the issue of migration, given the international assessment that in the next few decades, only Nigeria will, for example, have more inhabitants than the EU, or that the new billion inhabitants will live in the African continent's climate change area will not be difficult to assume where all these inhabitants will try to migrate. However, as I said with all due respect to Africa, if the EU wants to seriously debate Africa, then, above all, questions need to be settled in its own backyard, and this yard is called the Western Balkans, or countries that exist today in that area, their transitions and political and economic. In that sense, it remains a disappointment that we have not yet opened negotiations with Northern Macedonia and Albania. We know how this happened, but one thing has to be said, which is that already today, certain political consequences of the EU being unable to make that decision could be seen. At the same time, despite the fact that some of these countries have not even started negotiations with the EU, the number of young people leaving these countries is incredible. So from the talks directly with Prime Minister Zaev, we were told when we visited Skopje that about a quarter of Macedonia's population had left the past 10.15.20 years, the country, a quarter. So by leaving you a quarter of the population, I don't think I should explain to anyone who has an impact not only on the economy and society but also on political relations in those countries. So what's only certain, I think, as far as the enlargement policy and relations with these countries are concerned, regardless of what we have with some of these countries, with some not so good relations, I think it is our national interest to respect all the rules and respecting all those expectations that are included in these negotiations that all these countries have not only a clear perspective and membership, but that they are actually on that path as quickly as possible because if they continue in this direction as we look at it for the last 10 years another 10 years, 15 years then that space will be permanently afraid of looking quite, quite differently, and then it has an impact on Croatia and it is direct. Here, I welcome, in any case, the Croatian Government's insistence that the issue of enlargement be high, high on the list in this Presidency. And in the end, just let two more on Brexit. So it is evident now during the Croatian presidency, Brexit will finally finish, so the process has come to an end. From January 31st, the transition period in which the EU and the Commission, the EU and the United Kingdom need to reach an agreement on future relations is not necessarily going to be easier to achieve than it has been and here are several years to reach this agreement, but I believe that it is all of us and one and the other side's interest that this agreement is achieved as soon as possible and that we do not have further economic and other effects because they want or not the economy to function on the principle of combined vessels, and when it seems to you that something far away from you will not have an impact on you, however, in the 21st century everything is connected and everything has influence. Therefore, if something has an impact on the Netherlands and Germany, it will, of course, have an impact on Croatia. So, no matter what, almost no trade exchange with the UK has spared negative effects. Here, colleagues and colleagues of the HDZ Club will, of course, support this report by the Prime Minister. We invite all of you to do this and I want all of us a lot of success, especially to the government of the Republic of Croatia in this presidency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181721	The next club of representatives will be that of Croatian sovereigns and independent representatives Zeljko Glasnović and Zlatko Hasanbegovic, and will be spoken by the respected representative of Hrvoja Zekanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181722	The Honorable Prime Minister would at first say one fact that no one has said today, which is the government of Tihomir Oreskovic on 26 July 2016, that Croatia's chairman of the EU Council and Croatia could not possibly avoid it. And that's very important to emphasize. So these are the facts that this function, or the possibility of the EU presidency, was elected 3.5 years ago at the time of the government of Tihomir Oreshkovic, and at the time he was your predecessor in HDZ, means HDZ President Tomislav Karamarko. There's only so much to know. Furthermore, yes, and here's the minister, here's fellow Kovac notes he was Minister of Staff Kovac, and that's true. And here's my colleague, I'm glad you reminded me of that, too. In the framework of the Presidency, therefore, it will be particularly interesting to monitor the conference of the future of Europe led by Mrs Dubravka Shuica. It is for those who do not know the Vice-President of the European Commission for Demography. I only hope that at this conference Mrs. Shuica and other Croatian participants will not try to present successful demographic measures from Croatia because that day would probably be free at the conference because there are no successful demographic measures in Croatia. Here's a fellow Milosevic a few minutes ago mentioned from this pay phone that Macedonia has left 1/4 of the population in the last 20, 30 years, right, colleague? Yeah. Croatia left 1/5, so Croatia was 4,784,000 in 1991, today it has below 4 million, below 4 million, that is 1/5. So we're just a little bit better or less bad than Macedonia that you've highlighted as one of the worst countries in the world. And you said later that it caused very big and economic problems and Croatia is causing and will cause, and we need to talk from this pay phone. And this example of Macedonia, which you have pointed out nicely, should be mentioned here too because Croatia is in big, big problems, big demographic problems. And I have to say it's a little bit funny that right from Croatia, which is demographically on its knees, one of the worst countries in the EU, if not the worst that we have from Croatia right now, a delegated president or vice-president of the European Commission for this particular portfolio, demography. That's ridiculous. Here I have to point out one more thing, here we have recently had, here a few days ago a nice feast so I will call it at the HNK in Zagreb, and that is where our Prime Minister also addressed everyone by celebrating the Croatian Presidency of the EU Council. Great, and I would like our president to have said so well sovereigntyally, so not afraid of anyone, though, that he mentioned a little bit that we were still looking for 1,500 missing people who ended up being killed in the Danube, that he mentioned that recently the last major or last major European war had taken place in Croatia, and that he mentioned that we had some unresolved problems with the country and he didn't mention it. Why didn't he mention it? I don't know, we need him, maybe later in the address of Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, the President may tell us later, and why you didn't mention it, I would be pleased. And then when you mentioned that I once praised your government, I did, because I thought you'd say these things, so I waited, I waited, and you never mentioned it. You didn't mention it, but you didn't stand up for it, and it matters to me, it matters to many of your voters what was seen in these elections and past elections that matter to them and most important to them. I must say, Prime Minister, you've made some really nice economic measures, and here I am, I will never criticise you for economic measures. However, you did not do everything you needed and there you made a lot of mistakes, but to Croatian people and voters of the democratic options as declared and HDZ is something else important. There are other things that matter to them, which you unfortunately have not fought for, Prime Minister. I'll say one more thing you may have to point out from this pay phone but you never mentioned. You know better than I do, there are two Council of Europe resolutions, one no. 1481 of 2006 reads the need for an international condemnation of the crimes of totalitarian communist regimes, we have from 19 September 2019, the European Parliament brings a document calling the importance of European memory for the future of Europe in which it leveled and condemned communist and Nazi crimes and criminals. This is no. 2819, never mind. Why am I telling you this? Because you are looking again at the kickings and neither you nor your culture minister that you have delegated to the exhibition of Mayor Obersnel in Rijeka, where you are trying to set up a big five-point star again, the symbol of which regime is known and then you as a great European, European, whatever, ignore the resolutions of the European Council, here it is, the Prime Minister is leaving the Parliament but well, it doesn't matter. So you ignore these resolutions and Nemanja Cvianovic along with Obersnel can do whatever he wants in Rijeka. And it's not right and it's bad, so you're not really even what you're presenting yourself for. And yet I must mention to you, from a moment ago, here to repeat, repeat the six mother studiorum, let a little repetition be the mother of knowledge. So we also mentioned the Christian roots of Europe, so proud. The roots may be, the leaves are no longer Christian, the leaves I don't know, neoliberal atheistic or whatever, here it is, my colleague the Voice is looking forward to, I'm sad. I know fellow Bull is sad about it, I guess. But it is not to be a Christian and declare as a Christian just to say it and go to some mass celebration, to associate with the bishops, but also to fight for what you are for. So if you're the Prime Minister, then what do you do? Then as soon as I can pass the Life Protection Act that's in the process, which I put in the procedure. And the question was clearly addressed to you, you might answer in the end. Will you, if you are already declaring it, and you yourself said it here half an hour ago from this pay phone as a Christian Democrats and as the one who calls for the Christian roots of Europe, lobby and a little fight or say a few sentences on the subject of those essential Christian topics, which is today the protection of life? And it's nice that the Council of Bishops' Conferences of the EU comes to Croatia and you're going to walk around Zagreb with them for a little while, that's great, but here, ask them for an opinion, I'm sure they won't be happy with your attitude or that you're self-determining and not a true Christian, here I have the freedom to say it. So there are a lot of problems in our country, unfortunately the EU has not contributed to solving these problems, unfortunately the EU has made some things very difficult. It has made it difficult for us today to have a free flow of labour that we never speak of from this pay phone that we have one-way and that Croatians and Croats, young and educated, go to the EU and do not return to Croatia. And that Croatia is not compensated for this workforce. So these people were educated by Croatia. To them, Croatia has given a degree in hands. It costs millions and billions of kunas or euros. And no one, nor you, Prime Minister, has asked questions in the EU institutions, the European Council, the Commission, wherever, can Croatia and countries like Croatia be compensated because they give their workforce, means currently free of charge, Germany and other countries? So, the problem is a lot, I don't see that Croatia's presidency of the EU Council will solve these problems, but here I hope that at least Croatia will not be embarrassed.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181723	The next Club of Representatives is that of the Most Independent Lists on behalf of which the respected representative Miro Bulj will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181724	Thank you very much. Dear Prime Ministers, in this case without prime minister, but here, the prime minister said at first that today is important for the Republic of Croatia, and I remember well that time, January 15, then I was as a minor 19-year-old, I remember the moment when as a Croatian soldier I was with my colleagues and comrades who had a feeling from that time, and really now that we're pulling the parallel from there, we'd have something to talk about, but we need to talk about important topics here, important topics for Croatia. I know that the prime minister is looking broadly, his aspect is to look with glasses that have different colors towards the EU, the EU's interests, but I think that the Croatian prime minister should be of key interest to the Croatian government, Croatian interest. To talk about the future of the EU in a way where Croatia, the prime minister, is talking about the future where Croatia is in a demographic collapse and even even democratic collapse, and when we talk about democracy, do we have a Commissioner from Croatia, Mrs. I'm gonna kick out of that resistor. The lady is for democracy and demographics. Let's talk about democracy, I'm sorry he's not the prime minister here. So we spat on associations that collected under civil associations signatures for the referendum initiative for "The People Decisions", for the referendum. So we have to change ourselves first, can't be authoritarian, so bring ourselves to Brussels to represent some democracy in the Republic of Croatia, and that's the key problem of evicting the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and why should I call? I am sorry that the prime minister is not here, he would have called on the prime minister's statement when the last elections were tied to this initiative on election law, when the prime minister said that in the provinces where HDZ traditionally received a demographic downturn. Yes, these counties are pests, here I am sorry that there is no prime minister, these counties are pests, here I will repeat it to the prime minister, but they will hear it here, I guess, there are huge obligations, so it's a huge trio of the Croatian state when a man says who the first man is, we lost the election because in the counties where we win is a demographic decline. And I'm here all the time saying, is it coming from these areas, that the greatest vermin in the Republic of Croatia are exactly the functioning of the county in this way. So inside, they can't agree that we got this very Commissioner, and the Croatian state at least works on demographics and democracy, but it's tightly tied. Here today is January 15th, the prime minister rightly remembered this date, but here is the solution, the competition for the director of the Krka National Park has annulled the inspection, i.e. declared him illegal, that the Croatian Defence Act was not respected because it is much more important for Dujic's staff and the Spider's staff in Sibenik-Knin County, a lady who has both HDZ and HNS cards than Mrs. Zmijanović, who is the Croatian defender has better qualifications. Is that a January 15th message to our citizens? And that's why people leave these parts of the Dalmatian Zagora, Slavonia, like the fact that if we're boasting today with the EU presidency, and we're not solving these basics, we have a Commissioner who boasts that the prime minister has been appointed for demography that it's her portfolio and democracy... that in ruins, spit 400,000 people in the face who have collected the signatures. We didn't get any invalid signatures today. It doesn't matter how we vote individually, but let us not choke democracy. And that's one of the great causes of our people's departure if we call for Western civilization, democracy for everything the Prime Minister calls for. Of course talk about the future of Europe, and Croatia is the state that our Parliament on the Marrakech compact, not to mention the migrant crisis which he is partly only the prime minister mentioned only, the migrant crisis is the problem. The problem here in my county is the problem, here are the people from my county who are here, of course, that's the problem. So let's not close our eyes, 6,500 cops do their job honorably, we have a law that the military can help police in police affairs, not that our people live at the border in fear. But here we are, gentlemen, we are the culprits here and the accomplices are not allowed to discuss the Marrakech compact, the agreement, and it is not only Prime Minister Plenkovic's fault that our neighbours did not accept the Marrakech Agreement, but our people do not have border areas of security. God forbid the route gets stronger in the tourist season and our tourism is in danger, God forbid something worse happens. We have the law, we have the Constitution, so the prime minister is obliged if he crosses the illegal border to include the Croatian army under the Borders Act, is it written here we have voted, most of us were then in Parliament 2016 during Oreshkovic's government on the border and Croatian soldiers at the Croatian border helping the police, and not that our people at the edge of the glides are terrified. It doesn't make sense, Prime Minister. I was with people who stole a car from the garage, and when you show up in that village, people are afraid to be an immigrant, not talking about the humanitarian issue, to help people. Here you have behind you and Mayor Trill who... So ask what people are facing with problems and fear. It's fear, they don't feel safe, and we have a Croatian soldier, we have a Croatian police officer. And what one green person in the European Parliament is going to say to you, I personally don't care. I care because we protect their safety and their ass in Brussels, we protect them, yes, here's the public saying it, and I'll repeat it a hundred times, we protect their safety. We've accepted the Marrakech Agreement and it's not just your fault, it's not your fault. I just mentioned your opponent now, but it doesn't interest me within the party matter, your... The Marrakech Agreement not to argue in the Croatian Parliament was executed by Andreja Plenkovica was Miro Kovac's proposal to Vice-President God Petrova to discuss in the Parliament on the Marrakek compact he did not put to the vote and that is the fact. Miro Kovac, former interior minister, now president of that committee. I'm sorry he's not here so we can discuss it. As far as Croatia's EU presidency is concerned, Croatia has also come forward with the following behaviour. Are we going to solve an exclusive economic belt of 24,000 square kilometers, give protection to our fisherman, our submarine, give protection to agricultural land, give protection, so in Croatia I think it's a land of absurdity. There are three million..., 3 million hectares of pasture, Croatia has only reported that there are 900 million pastures in the herd and it is forbidden to stick to cattle where we have maquis in the herd that is down in Zagora, it is forbidden to stick to cattle at all. The evidence of Croatia's forests chasing cows not to smell there, last this few people who are here. We have increased the import of food products to 3 billion euros, ej and rapid growth, so let's get serious, so here I find it surprising that Slavonia is not fully watered in, and we have EU funds, the prime minister mentioned the EU funds, that we have signed a lot, but how much we have withdrawn the funds so far, we have agreed on, who knows what, now the elections, we will now agree more on what is foreseen in this, in this financial period, but the RH is at the bottom after withdrawing funds from the EU funds, at the bottom, and that is one of the key problems, at the bottom, that is the fact that we are below Malta. When we talk about agricultural land, I will mention once again that it is very important, so 700,000 hectares of RH have unprocessed land, unprocessed, and our farmers are evicted outside, and we import their food, so I remember recently when the Chinese prime minister was here then the Minister of Agriculture signed a protocol on exports of milk and dairy products to China, and we don't have in the city, here in the town I don't know Vrgorec, Sinj, very little we have treasure, somewhere where there were cattle, we now forbidd them to hold people's cattle, so many criteria we introduced, there are no children's kindergarten, Croatian children's kindergarten, domestic products, and we signed a protocol with China on exporting products. The only thing we have on Kukuzovac where he bought us an English dairy fund is 20 years old. i.e. And now it's produced based on that address, produced by a blue milkmaker, I don't know Subotica, some privatisation minister who took the money, bought the dairy and based it on the address on Kukuzovac... in Sinj he exports milk to us. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] What is the question, what is it that I am interested in, what brings us now this EU presidency to the Republic of Croatia? What does it bring us? What will be the results? Here, so let's declare IGP, if the Hungarians don't sell agricultural land let's and we don't sell agricultural land and let's get people back to Slavonia, in Dalmatia Zagor, not us out of 3 million, 3 million hectares of karst with 8 counties of karst, 8, we only reported to the European Commission that we have 900 million hectares of pasture, 900 million, and 3 million have and we defend our people to deal with livestock in that area as owners of Croatian forests, so that's not what the Turks did, all the occupiers didn't do it. Mostly in Dalmatia, Dalmatia was full of cattle, there lived the cattle that had grown cattle and dealt with livestock, wine growing, and the Croatian state was defending cattle farming, that we do not have it, now we are dessertd, we have no large and small teeth of cattle ten, a tenth of what we had before the '90s, and that's the problem of emigration, people can't stay in their areas, we don't have irrigation, we have no emigration, apart from what we have love primarily pre-election when they appear, let's say the pre-election is the love of those regions, and we're the hives that the people choose us, we send us away, what the Prime Minister says, we're excellency, irrelevant, now, let's say in HDZ I was the defender of legend, alci, regardless of what I was founded until he was in it wasn't, so you were the problem. Only I don't like it, I've been raised in such a spirit that I insult people and see that my colleague... That's the kind of place I'm from, that's the kind of family I'm from, isn't it? [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Once again, I believe that this is the prime minister that the EU has come to the Republic of Croatia, which means we are sitting, nothing is significant, but the fact that, I would look at it in a narrow sense, you as prime minister must protect the Constitution of our border, you must protect it, you must, if our military security is compromised on the border, which will tell you some green in the European Parliament that we have no interest in me, what fellow Stazic river, I don't care at all, when a man calls me, my neighbor that his car was stolen overnight by an illegal migrant and that the police found him broken down and that no one is responsible for what his car is broken, nor does he pay the costs, I am interested, I am interested in that the blue field is alleged and that during the season, during the tourist season, it is sold on our markets of Split, that we produce milk, domestic, agricultural products, we don't have a system of irrigation, e, the president of silage from our camp, so we have a lot. And about the ecology to speak, so your minister 100 km transports trash from Vrgorec 3 times more expensive pays Vrgorčani in Sinj for the same sanitary beliefs along the Cetina River, your minister is fed up with it, and he won't delay it if it won't be the Dalmatian Zagora trash can, it won't be you, that Ante Sanader knows that I won't give it to you, there won't be a trash can, you can cut our excellency, you can consider it excellency, you can tell us what you want, but you won't tell us what you want. Except for what you see in these areas, there are voices and nothing else, these ends are extinct, I will live and die down there, and I expect the prime minister to wake up and protect the Croatian people in the area. mainly where they're threatened. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181725	The next Club of Representatives is the voice on behalf of which the respected representative Vesna Pusic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181726	... I must say that today we are talking about these topics or at least trying to stick to this topic of the Republic of Croatia in the EU, including the Croatian Presidency of the Council, the EU Council, given that today and this anniversary, when in some ways with the recognition of the Republic of Croatia, has not yet been recognised by all the countries at that time, but in some ways it has been broken that the existence of the country and the recognition of the country in Europe, and in some ways it sounds nice that today in this same assembly we can discuss the Croatian presidency, among other topics. [[Speaker not enabled]] I must say that I am glad that the Croatian EU Presidency, not because it is a special credit for us, it is sort of going in order, they have pushed us forward to say so and give us this responsibility earlier, but because it shows the result of our joint work as a political community, which is, of course, that we are not in the EU to preside over anything. Thus, the fact that we all worked together to achieve that goal enabled us to be in that place. I hope and want absolutely in this regard full support, that the Croatian EU presidency will be successful. Me and us at the GLAS Club, unlike the ruling such things, do not view it as party and party, we view it as the successes of the Croatian state and as the successes of Croatian society, and we believe that we should work together on these topics and when success is first contributed to it together, and then we can look forward to it, and when it is a failure, it will break everyone's head anyway. Therefore, it would be good and we want absolutely us from the GLAS Club to do well in this chairmanship. A small note or footnote here, picture or image of Croatia in this respect can first profit from this presidency, the second good picture and good image contributes to the influence of Croatia in making decisions concerning daily life of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and is made at European level daily. And we here every day are taking over into our legal, legal framework the new elements of the EU's acquis. The impact of Croatia on formulating this legal gain is directly proportional to the reputation that a country like Croatia has in these frameworks, and the presidency is one such opportunity. Someone was asking, what's he like, what's the use of our precedent? So let's say a successful presidency can bring us a really big benefit in that sense, which is that we have an impact on legislation because we are being taken seriously because we have proved to be a serious country. And one of the things is my footnote that will show us as a serious country is Croatia's participation at the highest level in the memorial or marking to say 70 years of the release of the Auschwitz and Birkenau concentration camps. There is a colleague Klisovic reminded of this, let's not argue, confirm your participation because it is obvious from what has been published on the official pages that Croatia is the only one from the EU that has not confirmed its participation. Whatever whose fault it is, I hope it's a mistake and it's much better if it's a mistake than if it's an attitude, but confirm it, it's a matter of dignity and respect for this country. Beware of the flattering praises, he boasts a lot here about what Ursula von der Layen said, what they said.../incomprehensible/... what the vice presidents said. When I was 15 the first time I participated, participated, my father took me to a conference where he participated, and I was very excited because there were all you ladies and gentlemen who were there praising me, so how nice I speak English, so how nice this and what and then my father said to me, you know be careful about it, and the praises are the result of the fact that they very little expect you, they seem to know where you come from that it's a wonder that you can eat with a knife and fork. And so beware of your praises, they're partly the result of what we're expected to be, but we have to expect a lot of ourselves and we have to set our own criteria of excellence and stick to ourselves and show ourselves to our citizens by the criteria we know are universal and to measure others by them, that we're really good. And in my opinion, that's the only real measure of success. The prime minister spoke here, and before, priorities were presented in the National University Library and later on in Croatia on the priorities of the Croatian presidency, so 4 large groups, within each group of 4 subgroups or sub-groups. However, it is a program, and real life is something else and real life has brought some unusually large topics to the Croatian presidency. Themes we didn't expect to be met. One of these topics is Brexit, of course the entire EU will work on it and Michel Barnier is a negotiator, etc., many people will participate, but yet the Brexit will be defined in some way and half the future relations between the UK and the EU will be defined during the Croatian Presidency. The budget or this multiannual financial framework also welcomed us in some way, again, we will not do it ourselves but as we can see, the Finns have suggested some, the Finnish presidency has proposed some compromise, and in the end this compromise turned out to be so that no one is satisfied, that those who advocate the higher level of funding refused and those who advocate staying at the same level, at 1% also refused it, so we were also welcomed by the topic. We will likely deal with it much more with the topics that have been given to us or who have somehow found themselves on the agenda in the context of circumstances and the fact that they have not been solved before than with those we have planned in that programme. The most interesting of these topics as far as we're concerned is the one that we've been planning and we're kind of given it and that's the topic of enlargement to so-called. The Western Balkans. I never called it enlargement, and today I don't see it as an enlargement, I think that EU enlargement would be Turkey or Ukraine or something, this is what I consider a consolidation of European territory. One is, in some ways, the most grandiose of the objectives of the Croatian Presidency is Europe, which is influential. So, Europe, which is a global political factor. In a situation where instability in the Middle and Middle East has grown exponentially with the conflict between America and Iran, this issue of Europe, which is a political factor, which is politically influential, is becoming further important on the issue of consolidation and the ability of the EU to consolidate its territory, to place an additional emphasis. From that point of view, I think it is good that the prime minister was in France and I would be in France as often as possible because given the circumstances, it is obvious that only President Macron who has in some way led to a halt of enlargement or a halt of negotiations with Sj. Macedonia and Albania, that it will have to be this one, no one in the EU will outvote Macron, so it will have to be the one that will somehow appear with a solution and cancel the stalemate that has taken place and if we succeed during the Croatian presidency, it will be a successful presidency. It is a Croatian interest, I think it is already clear to everyone today, but it is also a European interest and it is also one of the goals of the Croatian Presidency. Europe as an international factor, so Europe that has influence, cannot have influence unless it is able to consolidate its own territory and that is its territory. And finally, since time is about to run out, something I wanted to say about the conference, about the future of Europe. I read some of the reports we received and listened to them talk about it. It's a very important topic, it's almost a key topic, I'd say. Croatia has more influence than one could imagine, first because it starts during our presidency and secondly, because the Vice-President of the Suica Commission is in charge of the operational process. But from the way it's come to this, it seems wrong to me, it seems to me that it's going the wrong way. He's got two ways of leading. It's one way to conduct a public opinion study, so you're looking at what's going on, and then it suggests what gets the highest percentage of votes in some survey, and the other is to lead with the proposed goals, so new ideas that can actually be one of those ideas that Europe has ever had, which is the EU, can lead forward. According to this concept, it seems that it will be leading the way, I don't know, what the Europarliamentaries think about it, what national parliaments think about it, it's all nice and good and it needs to be heard and seen but we need foresters here, we need new ideas, they need people with inspiration to transfer this idea to the 21st century and transfer and surrender to the next generation. Europe has a lot of smart people, Croatia has a lot of smart people, at law school, at political college, at the Faculty of Philosophy, even at the Faculty of Economics. There's this generation of 40-year-olds here somewhere, where there are great people working on these topics, think about it, write about it, mobilize them and put on this project the future of Europe. There are people like Tim Garton Ash, Timothy Snider, Ivan Kruste, Ivan Vejvoda, Steven... The mass of people, Anne Applebaum, the mass of people who think about this topic are first-class minds. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Europe needs first-class minds. We're stuck a little bit, if you'd like in some way and in one of the communications, and in an intellectual communication. And I think that in conjecturing this conference on the future of Europe, we should rely a little on the best minds Europe has, and on what Croatia has. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181727	The next club of representatives is that of the SDSS on behalf of which the respected representative Milorad Pupovac will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181728	Dear Mr. Vice President of HS, the Honorable Prime Minister. My colleagues and colleagues. I'm not going to talk much about the report itself because he's reaching a very long period behind us and commenting on it afterwards wouldn't make too much sense. What I want to talk about is the things that concern our relationship with European institutions first, towards Europe and our management of the whole process. One significant part of us sitting here in the hall, either now or otherwise, as representatives of the government, or as MPs in the Assembly, we remember lively at all levels and how much they participated in European integration affairs. How much all the parliamentary clubs, the parliamentary committees, the ministries worked to adapt our regulations, our legislation, our negotiating positions, and therefore, despite the longevity of this process, we successfully brought to an end and had a state of political, not in all segments, but fundamental political values that can be compared to European values as one of the best we have since the time of independence to date. And how are things today with that? How active are the parliamentary bodies on European affairs issues? How many ministers are coming before key bodies to discuss this? Much less than it was in the period when we approached. How many representatives have a serious interest in participating in this? Incomparably less than it was at the time we approached. And isn't it really a time to wonder if that's a good thing? Is that So, we wanted to, we were growing so much, now that we've come to where we're supposed to be, we suddenly have a reduced interest in doing what we're doing there. [[My colleagues, please, can we let my colleague Pupovec speak, please?]] What should we do to benefit ourselves? On the other hand, in the general public, among the average citizens of our country, there is a predominant review of the Union, its institutions and the government that is still pro-European politics. So it doesn't belong to a wing of states and countries that are open, if not against European policies, then skeptical, selfish, isolationist in a series of moments. And if this continues, if this conflict between what we have in the general public opinion and the citizens' consciousness begins to develop and deepen, not only this government, headed by Andrej Plenkovic, but any next government, will have a serious problem over how to overcome this gap, a very serious problem. What we call the people in the general sense of that word will remain on one side of the coast, and the government will be on the other side of the coast, and we MPs will swim in all the hot water and the more exciting. Some will listen to the voices on one side of the coast, as we hear it, thinking that it will gain political power by liking the recognizable criticism that prevails in the people, and some will try to propose ideas on how to overcome it. If I may say so, Mr. Vice President and colleagues and colleagues, I cannot suggest it to the Prime Minister because it is not his job at this time, that when it comes to the Parliament and when it comes to clubs, I think we must be in this regard much, and committees, much more ambitious than we are. Go to any organised EU member state, and even those not like Norway, how committed their committees and clubs are to European affairs. Until no minister, let alone the prime minister cannot go to the European Council or to ministerial meetings without presenting his proposal. And we have no interest in even discussing what happened. It's not good and it has to change. And the Bureau of Parliament and clubs should discuss it. Another thing I want to say is this document, which is ultimately for this period of the future of Europe. In it I would like to add something and install a proposal here, right here in this House, among us and in the presence of a prime minister who is most often in a position to discuss it. The future of Europe certainly needs to be guaranteed both at the borders and in the streets and squares. And in the elemental sense of every citizen of hers. But the future of Europe and what makes Europe different, in which its fundamental identity is when we talk about identities, and no one disputes even traditional identities, and here today the prime minister mentioned Christianity as one of the traditional identities. Modern identities are freedom and rights. here it is stated in one sentence. But what does it look like today in the EU? Here in Zagreb, members of parliament who belong to the Committee on Foreign Policy and for Defence and Security will come because they have regular conferences, as we know, some of us who participated in this and these conferences are regularly held to discuss the issue of foreign policy, defence and security. It is similar with European jobs, i.e. with European jobs. But it's not the same when it comes to fundamental freedom and human rights. And why isn't it there? Especially today when it is one of the most seriously endangered values within the EU, when it is one of the fundamental things that are seriously threatened in the EU itself, except for our sense of security. That goes for the sense of reducing freedom and rights. And if Europe wants to be promoted as a factor in the world, then it is in today's world averted from protecting freedom and rights, certainly one of the things that should be considered to be an integral part of the work of this body dealing with the issue of the future in that segment and on the other hand, the EU Parliament issue. As far as enlargement is concerned, we welcome several times in this text, and several times in the opening of the prime minister and in the answers during the current hour, a marked place to question the possibility that the Republic of Northern Macedonia and the Republic of Albania will get the green light to start negotiations as one of the high-level goals of the EU presidency in the council. We think it's not only the Union's interest, it's our interest as well. For security reasons, migration reasons, economic reasons and, of course, because of the fact that without this space, the Union is not complete, including, of course, the space of the Republic of Serbia, BiH, Montenegro and Kosovo. It's also here today, on several occasions mentioned today, so I'm going to mention it. January 15, 1996 and January 15, 1998. In 96, a peaceful reintegration began, on the basis of the Erdut Agreement signed a year earlier and on the basis of the Agreement on the normalisation of relations between the Republic of Croatia and what was from Yugoslavia, the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, signed on 23.8.1996, and on 15 January 1998 the process of peaceful reintegration ended. For the time being, the most successful part of the political development of domicile policies and international policies during the wartime of the common country is the period and the policy. It's good to mark it at least as a memorial. But it is good to remember all that has brought about, the return of refugees, the return of exiles, the establishment of peace, respect for minority rights and new enthusiasm in society. And building peace at borders and new relationships. It would be good to remember that more often. It would be good to remember this when we talk about Croatian-Serbian relations in Croatia and Croatian-Serbian relations between Croatia and Serbia. Because then and that period was a period for a new opportunity, which, unfortunately, we have forgotten over the past years, thrown aside, and what we have achieved in that period, unfortunately to a serious extent, threw under our feet and in our country created unrest, in relations with our neighbours we also have a riot and it is good that today, in Vukovar, a group of NGOs marked Europe as a peace project, we must not forget, Europe as a peace project and easily fall for what can lead us far from peace in the direction of conflict. Mr. Vice President, Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues of the SDSS Club will support this report by the Prime Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181729	Thank you very much, we are now moving on to an individual debate and will be the first to speak with a respected representative, Josko Klisovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181730	Thank you, Vice-President HS, Honorable Prime Minister, we all care that the Croatian Presidency of the EU Council is good and quality is that it is a picture of our country in Europe and beyond, and in this context, the opposition, as I have repeatedly pointed out, will make its contribution, we have already given through a series of activities in which we were involved, for example. We were involved in the talks with 60 European journalists, so the press choir from Europe who told them our story about the Republic of Croatia and answered various questions that were of interest to these journalists about the European policies and positions of our party, I think it went very well and that we also gave them a nice contribution to our presidency, there were also meetings with the European Commission, and there are other meetings that will include the opposition, and I think that this is good and that the opposition should be included, in the end we all contribute to the political life of this country as well as the pictures of the Republic of Croatia abroad, and therefore I also had a need to read some of the SDP's historical declaration today so that it would not remain unclear in the European context, as well as to our public who were the SDP's positions on executions that were happening in the former state, so that we would clearly condemn it through our parties. I have not read other things that are certainly interesting in this document including giving up and condemning the enemy's relationship with the Catholic Church and other churches and sectarian relations with the believers in general that was conducted in the former state, as well as the evaluations of the unambiguous collection of the event in '71. to nationalism with the denial of reform, democracy and federalist aspects of the policies of the then leadership, and political and criminal persecution of members of the so-called Maspoka, so the SDP, that's distanced itself from it. We also distance ourselves from the state interference in economic life, interference and the wrong economic policy that has led to a reduction in economic responsibility, a fall in motivation and productivity, and then an uncontrolled borrowing abroad, but a political legacy that is positive, we want to respect today. It is clear to me, since I have known you for a long time, that you are convinced and committed to European values, that you are a confident European and many of us sitting here in this assembly, so it is clear to me that you have quickly, clearly, reasoned and eloquently responded to the question of executions in the former state, but I do not understand that in this context we are talking about you have not responded as quickly to those statements that I mentioned on behalf of the club that came from the HDZ ranks today, do I think that at this moment after we have 30 years. but our own state that we will share the Croats according to whether they vote for one party, whether they are Jews or Orthodox, I think it is wrong, but I also want to hear it from you, that we will share people in this country, our citizens, according to whether and whether the criteria for whether the Croats have a HDZ party card or not, I also think it is wrong and I pray that before you leave, please confirm that it is so or not, that there is the right HDZ policy, that it is clear to all because these statements came from the highly positioned people of your party, it is also very important for the further progress of this country and its future and the foundations on which we build them. As far as the future of Europe is concerned, we have repeatedly touched on this subject during this, this agenda point, reports from the European Council, we have not yet received the right answer whether or not the opposition will be involved in the reflection of the Croatian position on the subject, it is nice that our Commissioner has been given the task to organise it, we are very pleased with it, and I think we may have a stronger impact on the situation of things, although we are only one of the 28, tomorrow 27 EU countries, but not just one meeting in the Committee on European Affairs but a series of meetings to go into one process of making a position on what the Republic of Europe wants in the coming period, it is going to exceed one government, regardless of what it is, it must be part of the consensus of parliamentary parties or at least most of the parliament on where we want to see Europe, where we want Europe, what kind of Croatia we want in Europe, what kind of Europe we wantEurope , what kind of Europe we want for the Republic ofEurope. Therefore, from this point on, I appeal again that at least through the Committee on European Affairs, there are people who know something about Europe and come from the ruling furniture as well as from the opposition, people who have a lot of experience in European affairs in various state functions or have so far shown great interest in such issues, and I think they can contribute very actively to defining the position of the Republic of Croatia on this matter. So that the interactive dialogue of the Government and Parliament I see in this way, I do not see the government and parliament dialogue in a way that the government comes, presents what it has and does not care what parliament thinks, give us the opportunity to really participate in forming a Croatian position on the future of Europe, rather than passively listen to what the Government or someone in the Government who has the power to make decisions about it. I think that in these key issues in the history of the Republic of Croatia, we have generally had such an approach, from the issue of recognition of the country to the issue of reintegration of the country, to the issue of NATO and the EU, and this issue that is important for the whole country deserves such one treatment within the political life of the Republic, treatment and opposition and parliament, is it to say that we want to make Parliament a decent respectable institution, and always ignore it when it is necessary to take part in creating a position regardless of the efforts of parliamentary representatives, most of whom are constructive, I think it is bad. Therefore, we are really going to show by our behaviour that we are holding to parliament, that Parliament is also taking part in drafting some important ones for the future of the Republic of Croatia, and at this point it concerns the future of the EU. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181731	We have one replica of the respected representative God Ljubic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181732	I would like to, therefore, refer here to the night when the results were published and when we had the opportunity to hear them speak, so the newly elected president and current president who shows me that the Croatian state is increasingly being seen as one stable democracy, one serious state, and that its leaders and in the future, and that all of us are bound only by strategic documents adopted in this House, and what I want to welcome, and therefore here is your advocacy that on the issues of foreign policy therefore we have a consensus when strategic Croatian interests are at stake and as a positive example here I want to point out one of our common visit to Berlin when it is the Minister of European Affairs in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic, the German Federal Government said, about the biggest gain of our talks, so I would like to see that in BiH, in fact, I would like to have a significant way that I would like to have done so much in BiH, when I would like to have done so much in the south of BiH, We're still sharing that consensus. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181733	Dear Representative Klisovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181734	Thank you, Vice President HS. Mr. Ljubic, I agree with your presentation, and on my part I will always make sure that we are constructive in international relations and that we are actively discussing all foreign political issues. We don't always have to have the same policy implementation methods, we can really differ, but in policy content, in terms of what we want to achieve, I think we need to talk, I believe that very often we can come to, close and even the same conclusions, or define then an external policy common. The speeches we heard after the presidential elections were held by the newly elected president, including the HDZ candidate, are a good provision for the future, but we must continue to cherish it. I also mentioned the political heritage of the first Croatian president Dr. Franjo Tudjman, she will not survive if we do not inherit her daily and encourage her, especially the unity of Croatian peoples and Croatian citizens if we swear to it, and we do something else. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181735	Thank you. The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Gordan Maras, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181736	Thank you very much, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Vice President, I am sorry that there is no Prime Minister Plenkovic here when we discuss this report and when we listen to his arguments during the day concerning the Croatian presidency, and with what goals we set for ourselves as a country that holds the presidency of the EU and what is the situation in the Republic of Croatia, because here today we are talking about things that are very important to our citizens who, on a daily basis, I would say, live worse and worse and when I listen today to Prime Minister Plenkovic saying that his priority is certain demographic standards and conditions and wishes that Croatia and Croatian citizens are not moving out of the Republic, it is clear that these goals are far from us and unfortunately not achieved. What I am particularly concerned about and concerned about, at this point, we, as counterpart Klisovic said, have the great honour of preside over the EU and want to present our country in a better picture and in some ways show what the Republic of Croatia and how it can contribute to the EU, but the circumstances in which we act as politicians and as a society are not our honor. When people come from all over the EU, here last week, there was almost a whole European Commission here, people come to Zagreb, people meet in protocol with politicians who are under serious suspicion of corruption on charges, indictments and they are pillars unfortunately at this moment of the government of Andrej Plenkovic and they are unfortunately pillars of our society. I am proud of the Croatian citizens who resisted this in the presidential elections, they have very clearly sent a message to HDZ, Prime Minister Plenkovic and all those who think it is normal to sneak and cook with, with people who have the most difficult access to corruption against themselves, ignore it as if nothing is happening to me, today listen to Prime Minister Plenković when I ask him, tell us the Prime Minister until you introduce the Bandić in the City of Zagreb, and when you support this policy and then Prime Minister Plenković tells me, so it's a question for the city's politics, for the city's congregation, as if there's no attitude about it, and that's the reason why the people in Zagreb know and why they're so sure that some people from HDZ already talk to me, they just don't understand why these kinds of policies are inaction, they don't apply to the better people in the city, they don't apply to the people who have a reason why they want to be safe, because they don't know why they don't, they don't want to go to go to go to the way. A savage who has absolutely earned after the crisis in her sector to resign because in the end nothing has been resolved, people are still unhappy, and we have a problem with the compensation of the school year, stories that she tells us that only 2% of children do not go to school are lies, they can be held accountable here because I know, for example, at school where my children go, 50% of the students were not at school last week, so I doubt that the average of 2%, I can believe that the average is at least 10 or 15 times higher than Mrs. The savage, so unfortunately we have a country that doesn't meet these standards at this time, that Prime Minister Plenkovic puts before us, that we have a developing country, that we have a country that protects, unfortunately we see that we're not able to protect our fellow citizens, people feel insecure on the road, people feel that the institutions of this country aren't doing their job, that ex-cops are blackmailing citizens, and when they report to the police, the threat then the police react in a way that they're not protecting who they're threatening, but they're twisting and they're saying that the simple procedures that they've proposed to the injured are not respected. So when a man says he's going to meet with someone who's extorting him, whether it's the police's job to follow it or not, or to leave a citizen to himself to protect himself from a bully or one who's going to commit a crime. So we're talking about a Europe that protects, and we're not able to protect our citizens either, we're talking about a developing Europe, and unfortunately the Republic of Croatia is lagging behind, and the Republic of Croatia is developing the weakest compared to, to, to, comparable countries in the EU. We are talking about an influential Europe, which the Republic of Croatia can be influential in the EU, I am hearing about it from Prime Minister Plenkovic, but when the main partner is a person with so much corruption on your back, with, with, with, with so many problems which in the City of Zagreb unfortunately became a synonym for non-transparent management, for, for, to an unsettled city, how you can then be influential in Europe and almost amazingly hear, when you hear a statement today by Mrs. Schuce who says that many countries, beware of this, means they want a prime minister like Prime Minister Plenkovic, it's almost incredible to hear, I think, I believe that Mrs. Plenkovic is. Swizza grateful, that she's Mrs. Squirt. Shuica thanked Prime Minister Plenkovic for having appointed her Commissioner and this large salary of EUR 20.000,00 probably does something to make such an epithet of syrup, but it is not, it is simply not based on facts, so the Republic of Croatia has no results that Prime Minister Plenkovic would qualify, in order to be desired by either Germany or Italy or France or even Bulgaria, even Bulgaria and Romania, if they did not get angry with Romanian and Bulgarian citizens, they would not want Prime Minister Plenkovic for his prime minister at the moment, he would only want Dubravko Suica. So on this side, when you follow it, you simply don't trust your ears and eyes that your colleagues and colleagues from the government or Prime Minister Plenkovic are talking about the situation that citizens follow every day, which is not what it should be and which is not good for our citizens and I, I believe and want to change it, to change it into the Republic of Croatia such a situation, to get a responsible power and to change it in the City of Zagreb, after that 6 months in local elections, means that I think it is a prerequisite and that it is a much more important thing for the Republic of Croatia than the next 6 months in which we will chair and where the paradox of Croatian society will be able to see all the leaders of European states. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181737	Thank you very much. We have a replica of the respected representative Steve Culey, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181738	Your Honor, Vice President. It would all be nice what a wonderful beautiful Maras says if he wasn't the one in HS talking about it at all. A man who has been taught and taught only once by the synonym of party involvement, from small legs like a chicken from a crate who came here, who is taught only once, who he represents, who he represents, who chose him except for his party boss, who gave him a certain function, of course, without success because man has never sweated for that salary he received in his life. And when you look on the other side Most of them are like that. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] Poor people who listen to them all day. [[Employer Reiner: Dear Representative Maras.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181739	Thank you very much. Thank you. Dear Representative Maras, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181740	Thank you very much. This is what I'm saying not for Mr. Culey's sake, but for the citizens who are watching us here. I've been chosen by over 14 grand, almost 14 thousand of our fellow citizens to represent them here, to do it in the best possible way, and to represent attitudes, and to fight for what I truly believe in. I'm not like Mr. Culey jumping or jumping around Skora to Colinda, I've had my stand from the very beginning and it's sad that my fellow citizens and fellow citizens, you have to listen to these MPs, but that's democracy for you. So I'm also fighting that Mr. Culey can speak, and if I could, I'd give him another minute to hear what kind of bizarre representatives we have in HS. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181741	The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Mira Bulja.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181742	Thank you very much, Your Honor. We only see the prime minister's report last year. However, we see that the salvos of praise with Croatia's EU presidency, but I would remind you now that you know that Gordan Jandrokovic, president of the Parliament, was shortly before the chairman of the press poll last year who chaired the EU, did not know the answer. So this is the sequence of events. All EU members preside over the EU. And of course, the prime minister says it broadly, in a broad context, he is a convinced Eurofil, and okay, he is in a broad context and he is looking at the EU of Brexit, of those things that, however, we parliamentary representatives have to listen to, we need to hear it and we need to, however, question fundamentally, what it brings to Croatian citizens. Whether demographic growth, whether economic growth, is 6.6% of GDP from abroad. It's according to the CNB, so what the CNB has without what's given in cash to its relatives and so on. So that's the message that 2/3 of Croatia is empty. We have a Commissioner for Democracy and Democracy. Neither of us has this government done anything but neither. I have to mention another referendum initiative on, the People decide, which means that they have collected 400,000 signatures, unfortunately they spit on that initiative. A civil initiative has killed itself, and that is the worst that can happen for democracy. And that's one of the reasons why people leave this country. If the people say, let's go to a referendum on election law, let's let's let people choose the name and last name of 3 representatives, let's go to our evicted citizens who drove this government and all those who worked against Croatia, so that they can vote electronically by those who left Slavonia, from Zagora, from like, and this government didn't give it. And we get a Commissioner for Demography. I'm sorry for democracy and demographics. So the basic values of the EU democratic, to which you are calling, are crushed because it is hypocrisy. Here, we have here, most of it is, I don't know, the one who's a believer, we know we have seven deadly sins. Do you gentlemen know what is the key sin here and not among the 7,7 mortal sins? Listen. Obedience. Obey, gentlemen. At a given moment, we should have had the courage and the courage of this House and say that if the people have gathered signatures, we are asking for a referendum to be called because the government comes from the people and we have not done it, gentlemen. And we can't, folks, it's hearing, it's sin eight. There's a book. 8th mortal sin, so we have 7th not to count, but this is the 8th mortal sin is obedience. So, colleagues and colleagues, you can't say that the referendum was just the fault of Andrej Plenkovic, no, and you're guilty of which is not the People's referendum initiative, because of democratic standards going to the referendum no matter who will vote. Now imagine what the message is when someone collects 400,000 signatures in very difficult conditions where the government is against this initiative and we do not allow a referendum to be called on amendments to the electoral law. That's not a good message for democracy. That's why people leave. People are leaving because, here, today came the solution, on today, on the 15th, I will repeat it, on the day of the international recognition of the Republic of Croatia. We all remember that time and remember where we were that day. Of course, I was 19. For 19 years, I was on the battlefield, I remember my colleagues and colleagues, each of us at that time was somewhere. We were happy. But today, I read in the media that today in the National Park of Krk, after a powerful verdict and after an inspection report, the Law on Defences was violated because Mrs Ljiljana Zmjanovic was not appointed in accordance with the law, because the law was broken, but a person who is good with Dujic, Pharaoh Dujic, who stands behind Bauk who has two party cards of HNS and HDZ, amcipients of two cards. You know, if you're playing the cherry, three of them down the Dalmatians need to know, accumulators of two IDs, and the prime minister has been calling you on this day. I was in uniform at the time and proudly I remember the joy of everyone, I was then a boy. But with two IDs to win in front of the defender, it's a disaster, it's Dujic's policy. It's the prime minister's policy that drives our people out. I would be happy to mention that equality, mention equality, freedom of the market, yes, but why Croatia imports EUR 3 billion in this freedom of the market, and that is growing every year. Why don't we in kindergartens have domestic milk from karst areas, and we don't defend keeping cattle and restricting people in karst areas, why don't we irrigate fields and we have EU funds? I'm interested in the effects, that global Brexit of course, the prime minister when he was in Sinj said Excellency Bulj would solve so immediately Johnson got there with, so almost solved, you saw how you encouraged it. Why? Because you're making fun of these attitudes, I'm here by accident, so I'm just being voted by the people here, not by the incubator Prime Minister, speaking out of my heart, not out of hatred. Croatia is empty. I am interested in being human right now I want to stay here and live our family in these areas, karst area, Dalmatian Zagora, Slavonia, I am interested in equality and freedom of the market, all right, and di, freedom of the market, so why in trade chains in Croatia where the owners of our wife's cashier have 10 times less wages than in Austria, Germany if we are the same market. Why don't we have the courage to say that there must be 30% of domestic products on drawers if local self-government in Austria does so, why don't we have the courage? Who are we afraid of? So I know when we were entering the EU that we had to bow down and bow down, we had to shut down all the generals, the Homeland War mud, we didn't have the courage to declare an exclusive belt, but we made some kind of hybrid, we didn't, we didn't do anything.../incomprehensible/... literally nothing. There's been a toast to Charlie Del Ponte's arrest of Gotovina, these are ugly messages, and we're going to forget about it, and we're going to forget about it. But now, if we are sitting in the EU, if you boast, regardless of the president of the assembly, it is absolutely not known who he was last year, which country was chaired by the EU, everything will preside circularly, it is true. That's true, but I'm curious about when my Sinj field will be irrigated to keep the farmer of the sea alive. To keep this product on the Split market at the time of tourism, not to have Italian pomidore come to me which are GMOs or I don't know how they are produced, which 3 years are in the same condition when you buy them, which are poisoned with glyphosate. The Dalmatian prosciutto is mentioned below, so where are they, I don't see pigs. Let's be honest, we're telling the truth. How much do we import? Did we protect our farmer, the peasant, the heavy, the fisherman? We didn't. Can I now be more interested in the Prime Minister in this if we are already holding the EU presidency, what are the effects for us? Okay, Brexit, okay, everything, okay, market freedom, but our cashier in that chain that's the foreign owner has a 10 times lower salary in the EU. Is that equality? Did we protect the agricultural land? Have we declared an exclusive economic belt? Did we protect our territory? We accepted the Marrakech Agreement, we accepted the Marrakech Agreement without discussing it in the assembly. And it is not only Plenkovic's fault, but the eight deadly sins that are not written, there are seven mortal sins, the eighth hearings, the present hearings of the leaders. Manny, I will never forget the session led by Miro Kovač as the board of directors, God Petrov suggests the conclusion that only the Parliament discusses the Marrakek compact he does not allow to vote on it. So you know what Croatia has been through, what terror to enter the EU and how we have worshiped the Dorms, penitently. I'm interested in what now Prime Minister, what our people now have to do with it. Under these lights, say down on the earth, on the cross, and on Slavonia. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181743	We've got one replica of the esteemed representative of Curray. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181744	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear fellow Bully can't quite agree with you in the great majority, especially the inaccuracies you've made, but I believe you're doing it in good faith, and that in fact we all want to do the same is just the question of how to get there. But one thing was not clear to me, and it sounded pretty clear to me, so I'd like to see if I understood correctly that in Austria, local self-government units or states have limited or put a certain limit on what products they might be on the shelves, you mentioned 30% of domestics that they must either be minimally or I don't really know that I didn't hear. I know it's contrary to the protection of competition, but I'm curious if that's the case, if it's the first one who wants to protect domestic production, domestic producers and domestic products. If there's any chance I'd like it to explain clearly how and on the other hand it might support but I'm interested in what you really meant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181745	The answer of the esteemed Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181746	Well, of course there is, so who bothers local self-government in certain markets and deals, of course, that's what trade chains do, and that's what they do in other countries. Of course, it protects its production and educates people to buy in markets, including shops and chains, and to give them some kind of benefits to sell it that way. Well, that's natural and normal as long as there are naturally domestic products. If there isn't. But what's the problem, I didn't mention, and you're experienced in energy, we have, when I see how many wind power stations, wind parks and why, just nothing like pears after mushrooms, who mushrooms after rain, you can't believe it, but we pay a billion and per kuna to whom we give, to strangers in the pocket of subsidies, instead of putting on every house, every microsolare, and that the product of microsolar each from the Republic, this foreign product, in other people's pockets, we give money to us through the law on renewable energy sources that doesn't benefit the Croatian state, or Croatian consumer, absolutely nothing. except for foreign producers. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181747	Next, the next individual debate will be a respected representative of Davor Stier, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181748	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President, Mr. Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues, a few words about the Croatian Presidency of the EU Council, particularly on topics that will mark this Croatian presidency. The first topic is quite certain, at least the calendar brexith that will be by the end of this month, the topic which the Republic of Croatia did not choose to be in this period, it was simply such a will of the British citizens who voted in a referendum on Brexit and will in the last elections where it received the party, so the majority who decided to implement the agreement reached between the United Kingdom and the EU, the decision that the UK made, we have talked about this several times here in this high home, more for geopolitical reasons, and the less taking into account the perhaps standard of living of British citizens, certainly not EU citizens, of course there are excuses and for this geopolitical, traditionally Great Britain has watched that the continent be fragmented, in this way based its foreign policy, as well as today and in the 21st century, so this is their decision, it has some of its own, and the Croatian presidency will be partly marked and will be more important in terms between the British and the UK. Then, the multiannual financial framework, therefore the EU budget of its kind, and if acting as Chairman of the European Council Charles Michele is the one responsible for negotiating, that at least manages political negotiations on the future of this European budget, it is absolutely certain that the Republic of Croatia, chairing the EU Council, has one important role here, therefore a key debate in this respect between those Member States who want to continue to make strong cohesion so that a good part of the budget remains committed to reducing the differences between the more developed Member States and those Member States that continue to receive funding from the European Funds so that they can reduce this difference and that the EU is more effective in this respect, and on the other hand those countries which are the net payers who want to put into some other priorities which are as important as research, development, but of course where they see greater benefits, because mainly their agencies, their businesses may be able to reach such funds as from some of the new EU members of the EU and thus have serious debates, so that the importance of the need for the need of the need for the need of the need to be addressed and the necessaryness of the necessaryness and standards. companies that come from the Republic of Croatia that can not compete equally with those companies from developed EU members and in this Croatian diplomacy, as far as I am aware, are already working and I think it is important to achieve the desired result. Then the issue of enlargement policy, or the summit that will take place here in May in Zagreb, is important for the Republic of Croatia to have this enlargement process experienced the desired reform and better results than it has achieved so far, it is important for our national security, everything that happens in the southeastern Europe directly affects national security of the Republic, and today's enlargement process has lost that strength to reform, to really encourage these countries to make the necessary reforms, to meet all the conditions, to europeanise, and it is in our interest to have the situation in our neighbourhood as much as possible, to achieve as possible, to achieve European criteria, and not to make this a single security threat to the Republic of Croatia, and therefore to reform that process that could be achieved, therefore, the water here talks, have different views on it, but the reform of this process if it is achieved at that summit in Zagreb will also mark Croatia's EUCouncil. And then the conference or preparations for the future of Europe, we heard more about it today, I would stress one element, which is that exactly the future of the EU and the very idea of European integration is very important for the Republic of Croatia and Croatia. Look in our Constitution, in the original foundations of our Constitution right now, and we know that they were written directly by the first Croatian President Franjo Tudjman, where he mentioned that they had just changed in the international order, and these were changes that enabled the end of the division of Europe, the reunification of Europe after the fall of communism, after the fall of the Berlin Wall, and these processes of unification of Europe also enabled national emancipation. A new wave of democratisation, as well as national freedoms and national emancipation, made it easier, of course, to and to achieve the thousands of years wish of the Croatian people to have our own national state, sovereign and independent state. So in this respect, we must also look at Europe's future, and the present Europe what we see today is that this concept of a whole and free Europe is threatened by divisions, threatened by one fragmentation process. We have ideas about Europe more speed, we have ideas about how certain Member States should be grouped against other Member States. These seem to me to be processes, fragmentations that harm the very idea of Europe, which may not be so damaging to large countries, but will greatly harm countries such as the Republic of Croatia because in this process, the whole and free Europe of Croatia could best protect its national interests and strengthen its statehood. In this respect, I think we must also remind ourselves that this European idea that we have, and often in Croatia, tied rightly to Adenauer, to De Gasperi, to those democracies who led Europe after World War II, that it was only one electricity that advocated the European idea, that democratic current that emphasized the common Christian roots, the identity that then brought together different peoples in this peace project. There's another idea, so-called. Functionalist Monea, who spoke about how Europe should be built by co-operation between the countries, is particularly popular among European bureaucrats, and it is gaining power. And then the third one's socialist, for example. The Italian Spinelli, who thought that now the national states can no longer solve all the problems of this society, should then be made one bigger country, Europe as some of the United European countries. These three currents were actually advocating European ideas, but they were different and they were somewhat balanced. Sadly, in the early 21st century, this democratic idea began to lose power. There was a debate about when the EU Constitution was discussed to mention Christian roots and it was rejected. And this was an indicator of how weak this very democratic idea has actually led to the weakening of the very European idea and the very idea of Europe that can truly be whole and free. That is why, in this debate in the future, I think we need to bring Europe back into balance, that again if we and we from Croatia have to have that voice to remember these common Christian roots, they are not the only ones, but they are certainly the key to defining the identity of Europe, and that they are crucial to defining the identity of the Croatian people and the future of Croatia in a whole and free Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181749	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas. He's the first respected Uncle's representative, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181750	Thank you. In your debate, you touched the future of Europe, as well as the first Croatian President Dr. Francis Tudjman. The first Croatian president has just seen Croatia's place in Euro-Atlantic integration, i.e. the NATO Alliance and the EU. Given that today there are even among us colleagues who doubt where we belong, and if we do not belong in the NATO Alliance and the EU, where we belong. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181751	The answer of the esteemed counsel Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181752	Thank you, fellow Stričak, you have said exactly that the first Croatian president saw Croatia in Euro-Atlantic processes, integrations, today as an EU member, was then the European Community. This is also highlighted in the inaugural speech of President Tudjman on 30 May 1990, which I believe remains perhaps one or perhaps the best speech on the vision of the development of the Croatian state, which is still current today. I had this morning on a radio program to discuss it, about demographics, which is really a key problem. However, when we see some countries in Southeast Europe that are not EU members, where more people have emigrated from than for example. from Croatia, we can indeed conclude that our problems would not have been better solved if we were not in the EU. Therefore, regardless of all problems, EU membership is.../Speakers speak at the same time./ [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181753	Thank you. The next replica is respected MP Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181754	Dear fellow Stier, I am pleased that you mentioned the importance of the Presidency of the Croatian Council of the EU. The fact is that it is not of little importance to decide on a multi-annual financial framework that will be applied since 2021 and then for 7 years and decide and actually look for ways to improve despite the fact that one member is the biggest nettor, how to further develop Croatia, in which direction and how to actually enable cohesion policy and agricultural policy in Croatia and Europe.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181755	Your Honor, Mr. Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181756	Yes, thank you, colleague, it is indeed an important role, I think, and an opportunity for the Republic of Croatia. It's clear that the Republic of Croatia can't do it alone, but it can go through a process called the so-called process. to focus this debate on all acts where, after the political agreement of that European budget, it is going to define those implementing criteria so that both our companies and our businesses and not only our own but also some of the new Member States can be much more competitive than today because often when we talk about cohesion, it is thought that it is only some help coming to those countries that are receiving, but when you look at the structure of who benefits, which the companies that are receiving in these tenders are often seen that a good part of these funds is then returned to those countries that they have paid, therefore must be, Democratisation of these criteria, and Republic of Croatia [[Intruder: Thank you]] He's got a chance to do it now. [[Intruder: Next...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181757	...is the replicas of the esteemed representative of Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181758	Thank you very much, Mr Stier, in your debate there is much to hear about how our precedent should pass, or what kind of messages we send as the Republic of Croatia, what kind of attitude I am interested in, is it normal for the Croatian, Republic of Croatia, the EU presidency, that the prime ministers and presidents of EU countries are coming to the Republic of Croatia, and here are welcomed by Prime Minister Plenkovic with his main coalition partner, Mayor Bandic, the suspect of numerous affairs, many of whom are currently at the stage of the trial in the City of Zagreb City of Zagreb, what kind of message sends the RS presidency when the main partner in that presidency is Prime Minister Plenkovic's mayor Bandic? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181759	Your Honor, Mr. Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181760	Col. Maras, I would like to point out here that Croatian citizens expect all of us at this time to take care of what state interests are, which is important for the Republic of Croatia, what you mention about some small football that you want to do, can be relevant to you, and for Croatian citizens it is important to what kind of standard of living, what kind of Croatian presidency will be, what it will bring to them, and not what it will possibly bring to a political party such a bickering, and my debate was precisely in that sense to point out what the priorities of this presidency really are, which are the important events that will take place during the Croatian Presidency and what will really be important for Croatian citizens and for the Croatian state, if you can understand it would be good, if I don't think that you really need to make a greater effort.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181761	The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Mira Kovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181762	Thank you very much. Mr. President, here's Mr. Pupovac no longer here, he was talking about a skeptic who exists in Croatian society, not just in Croatian society, so first of all, when we look at what things looked like 8 years ago. At this time, so we're eight years ago. We had a referendum in the Republic of Croatia on EU accession, and when we look at that data, then we will find that we only had 66% of our voters to join the EU at the time, and that only 43.5% of the voters enrolled, that means that we had support among voters of 29%, that's the reality, so now we talk about that there is an incorrect in the Republic of Skept, and it's not true, that the skeptic immediately appeared or was concrete in the referendum after the difficult process of accession of EU membership, I was then an ambassador to Germany, a senior official from the legislative authority told me,... suggest that we enter the EU with so little support for the public of citizens when it comes to the EU. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, it has been going on for several years, but let us not forget that this process has been so difficult because people have been frustrated in the Republic of Croatia by this length of the process and by the compromises that we had to make to join the EU. That's why, that's why I'm a foreign minister and there's one associate of Mr. Plenkovic's already in '16. With the consent of both the Presidents of the Republic and of course the Prime Minister, we voted to use that word, to come early because we were not programmed in 2020. to be chairman, we should have come to order later, but we took advantage of the opportunity after our friends in Great Britain decided to respect the will of the people and signaled to the EU Council that they would not be able to secure the presidency, so our previous HDZ government has consciously decided to take advantage of the moment, but not because we were unrealistic and we thought that we would have a great profit in the Croatian public, we will not have, this is not only the case in the Republic of Croatia, but also elsewhere, but to reset the state administration, that people working in the state administration have a motive again to show that we are working correctly, that there are capable people in the state administration and that the Republic of Croatia knows how to handle the Presidency of the EU Council, this was a motive after the referendum on the exit from the EU and we have been confirmed by the decision of the EU Council in July 2016. I'm going to say a little bit about the presidency itself, and I'm not going to go into these more important topics like the Brexit, the multiannual financial framework, I'm not going to talk about the green plan, I'm going to talk about two things. First thing, expansion like that. I've been listening to Mrs. Devereaux. Pusic spoke on behalf of the GLAS Club today, and it is true that if he succeeds, if he succeeds in making a decision to expand the start of negotiations with Northern Macedonia and Albania, it will be a success of our presidency. I firmly believe that, I believe Mr. Macron will make a compromise, he's raised a manual and he's looking for a new methodology when it comes to negotiations. The new methodology will be agreed, it's a good thing, it'll be a quad pro quo that people can... feel from the accession process itself and we'll get a decision to open negotiations and we'll be able to boast about it. If we are remembered as the chairman state, I will be personally happy as a representative in the Croatian Parliament and as a man from the ruling majority. But what is much more important to me when it comes to Croatia, our membership in the EU is the role of national parliaments. And here we come to this second point that is important to me, and it must be important to us, which is the Conference on the Future of the EU. The only way for us in the Croatian public, in the public of other member states, to reduce skepticism when it comes to the EU is to participation, including national parliaments. I was amazed when I saw that the proposals on the European Commission were not at all about the participation of national parliaments, there was no such proposal. Then the Germans, the French of their foreign ministry, came forward with some joint proposal, again it was not about national parliaments. Only the Bundestag and his colleagues from the National Assembly have submitted a joint letter and it has been stressed that national parliaments must be involved. So imagine how you intend to discuss the future of the EU only in the European Parliament that people from the European Commission, from the Council of the EU, with some social partners, are really irresponsible. If someone has to participate, if someone has an influence on the public then it is us here in the Croatian Parliament. Far from this parliament in Strasbourg and that building in Brussels, we are you, we are the best "agents" transporters of what people, what people, are expecting from the EU. Who better to explain than Mr. Šipic from the field, Mr. Lucic, Mr. Bačić, or, say, Mr. Strick from the Varazdin County, who better to explain than them? It's a reality. Therefore, we must insist, we here in the Croatian Parliament to be actively involved in this debate. We said that, he was a colleague of Maras at the meeting, I thought Mr. President of the European Affairs Committee Milosevic was Mr. Stier in talks with Mrs. von der Leyen, without that there is no real debate on the future of the EU. The eased circumstance for Ms. Shuica to be the European Commission's vice-president to play a role in this process of bringing up the EU's future, she told us at a meeting that she would appreciate it. I see in the latest proposal that it is envisaged that in the European Parliament's proposal to be between two and four members of national parliaments involved in this debate, but I will do so again, I was incredibly surprised to express myself diplomatically, that it was not intended for national parliaments to be involved. It really... about not understanding at all what's going on. In the end, the British decided to leave the EU because of these Eurosceptic feelings. We know best who we are from the European People's Party, the process started at the end of 2007, the eighth year, first they left the Club of Representatives of the European People's Party and then they decided to leave the European People's Party and they founded their own group that I will soon leave because 31 January the state as such leaves the EU. So we are you and it is up to us here in the Croatian Parliament to pass through the President of the Croatian Parliament, but also we who are on various committees are the necessity to be involved is we who can best convey the feelings of those who voted for us in the elections for the Croatian Parliament. If someone lives in Trilj, Zagreb is already far away, let alone Strasbourg or Brussels, it applies to the people in France, lived in southern France, they lived in Paris very far or in Germany if someone lives in Bavaria it is Munich far, let alone Berlin or Brussels. Therefore, national parliaments must be involved and this is my presentation of a kind of call, an appeal to strengthen this awareness of the necessity of our participation. There are capable people here, smart people will be in the future, but of course I'm back on a fellow bud who was critical of how we work. E. We need to sit down a little bit and discuss how the Croatian Parliament and the bodies of the state administration are involved in the decision-making process when it comes to our membership in the EU. It may be for a wider debate after the next elections for the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181763	Thank you. We've got more replicas on your exhibit. First of all, he's a respected representative of Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181764	Thank you very much. Mr. Kovac, I have a question for you. You have spoken some of the principles, but since this is important and will take place during the Presidency of the Croatian EU, and you are one of the candidates in the HDZ lead, I would like to know how you see it and if you are satisfied with how Croatia has put priorities or how the Croatian government's leadership in the Republic takes place? So this is a very important topic, given that the HDZ election matches the presidency, I'm interested in probably being one of the most important topics in the internal campaign itself, I'm wondering if you're satisfied with HDZ policy right now? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181765	Dear Representative Kovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181766	Thank you, Mr. President. I am pleased that Mr. Maras, as head of the SDP, appreciates the strongest party in Croatia, HDZ. And I'm glad that the processes in our party are being followed, we're the main party, the biggest party was, and that's how it's going to stay. I can only tell you that we are a serious party, that the processes in our party will be serious, and when it comes to the priorities of the Croatian government during the presidency it is high-level. What I see is that people in the government and in the state administration are generally highly motivated. I got good signals and after this concert, it was a nice setting, but now I'm waiting until the end of June. I am personally optimistic when it comes to our EU presidency. Thank you very much, Mr. Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181767	The next is a replica of the respected representative Klisovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181768	Thank you very much for the Vice Presidential Assembly. Mr. Kovac, to correct you a little bit, after the last public change study, the SDP is the strongest party. All right. I wanted to replicate something else, so you mentioned a referendum by the citizens of Croatia on joining the EU. So that's one question where I've never had any doubts, and there's a larger number of people working on it, including people sitting here today in government benches, as well as sitting in HDZ benches. And I think that we have done a good job never for Croatian citizens had doubts where they belong and never doubted that they have a strong emphasis on both Croatian national identity and European identity, and the EU is only one good manifestation, an institutional manifestation of that European identity. And that's why I think that's how well we've managed to find common ground at such strategic priorities. It's a guideline for some other issues of common interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181769	Dear Representative Kovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181770	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Klisovic, this polling thing, it's a trick you know, we at HDZ are the strongest party, we're kind of letting go of what's the trick to see, that you believe in it at the end when the moment comes we have to win, that's what we know, I mean the HDZ. But what I'm saying is, I'm glad you're talking about consensus and consensus, we're with journalists the other day, and we had a high degree of compatibility of attitudes when it comes to foreign policy. Foreign policy needs to show seriousness, that's logical. The lands that are arranged, the systems that are arranged, there must be one seriousness. Another matter of internal policy, but I am glad that on this plan and around BiH there is also fellow Ljubic and he knows it, he admits it, around BiH, and I do not expect the newly elected president of the Republic to change attitudes, especially national interests, and when it comes to BiH, this is what we achieved together in 2004 when we created that committee to monitor the negotiations. The agreement in this area is necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181771	Dear Representative Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181772	Thank you, Vice President. Well, dear counterpart Kovaca, I am absolutely sure that most Croatian citizens know and understand that Croatia's membership in the EU is actually a tool, and how well it serves some tool depends on how you can use it. However, I would like to stress that this tool is now becoming a double tool actually. On the one hand, our membership is a tool to ensure a better standard of living for our people, there are decisive examples such as the Czechs and Slovaks, the Poles. I stress the Czechs and Slovaks because they have lost nothing since they joined the EU, I think that neither the Slovenians, so it is exclusively up to us to use it, I am now not just talking about cohesion funds although they are not irrelevant. And another tool is that when you look at global challenges that are ahead of all of Europe, it means in front of the entire Western civilization and many other civilizations actually together in the EU, we will certainly find better ways to deal with global migration, climate change challenges and other challenges facing.../The speakers speak at the same time./... [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181773	Dear Representative Kovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181774	I recently agreed with my colleague Klisovic that he would not raise himself, a consensus with my counterpart Milosevic, I am particularly in agreement with him. So we've achieved a great thing we've shown that power when it comes to sovereignty, we're a state-run sexist, so a successful story. Independence, democracy, freed themselves from aggressors, reintegrated their areas, entered NATO, entered the EU, etc., a day of peaceful reintegration. Now this membership depends, of course, on how capable we are, how strong our institutions are, so we must strengthen our institutions. And if we know how to strengthen our institutions, our resources we know will be much better set up to be stories, if we don't know we'll be an uncreative, uncreative subcontractor, if we want to be a creative country within the EU for that, we need to reorganise ourselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181775	Dear Representative Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181776	Dear colleague Kovac, here's the surprise of your discussion. Finally, in HDZ, someone dared to say something different. First, you said that the minority introduced Croatia into EU membership, and we know a lot of conflicting laws, etc. Another person can think in HDZ. But what I liked, you know we from the party change Croatia we will whenever someone says something good in the interest of the citizens. You said the following, we want a debate on the future of the EU, you remember that here on several occasions I asked Prime Minister Plenkovic not to be a newspaper reporter from Brussels but to open a debate on the future of the EU, rather than for someone to know where to go without anyone asking us. Therefore, my question to you is quite clear that you want to be the president of the HDZ, if you come to this position, will you immediately open this topic in the Croatian Parliament on the future of the EU so that we can finally start talking at once.../The speakers speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181777	Dear Representative Kovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181778	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We are in the debate here, we have a debate here on the reports of the Prime Minister on the meetings of the European Council and we are discussing some of the topics concerning these meetings and we are now discussing not the HDZ, although I am glad, even in the case of my colleague Maras, that it is such an interest for our party, it shows that we are a quality, that we are strong. We'll handle it in our ranks. I also agree with you, we here in the Croatian Parliament need to discuss the future of the EU and have our own and influence on the EU's reorganisation process. That the reorganisation is necessary, shows the end and exit of the UK from the EU, is the main thought. It means it's possible to stop the integration process. This is what the British have now shown, and that is why we need to talk about it and make a contribution to how to reorganise in the EU.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181779	The next replica of the respected representative Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181780	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Kovac. So, damed in the 1990s until 2000, the Croatian state was the object of the debate in both the UN, the OSCE and the European Parliament. Today we have become the subject of all these institutions and given your experience and we who go to these international organisations know what it means for certain countries in our environment from BiH, Serbia, Montenegro, Albania, the Euro-Asian countries, not to say what it really means to us as Croatia. Today, we are chairing the EU Council and we do not need to minorise it in any way, though. Today it was an opportunity to talk about the Croatian Presidency programme for the European Council which was used in this point. What you were talking about was the role of national parliaments, but that... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181781	Thank you. Dear Representative Kovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181782	... Mr. Babie, if you only allow one, one precision. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We didn't become a subject, we forced ourselves to be a subject, we fought bloodyly to be an entity in international relations, and we're proud of that, and I know you think that. I was just a little bit of a pussy when it came to linguistics about linguistics. So we've done a lot of things, and when we say look at our neighbours in the southeast, it's sky and earth. Our status, their status and their status are of course to change their status. But we now have the next task of becoming an economic success story. If we compare ourselves to Poland, the Baltic countries, especially the Czech Republic. Today, the Czech Republic has reached almost the level of Italy,... the EU average per capita according to the Czech Republic's purchasing power, Italy 26%, given... percent. So this must be our goal as becoming a long-term successful functioning economy of the states. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181783	Thank you. The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181784	Dear ladies and gentlemen. The conflict currently being fought in the Assembly is in fact a conflict between two types of globalists, left and right who essentially have the same attitudes and positions on all issues, regardless of whether it's the Marrakek Agreement, the Istanbul Convention or anything else that I have to say globally. As soon as it crosses the Croatian frameworks, according to Brussels, the left and right sides say. And I'd like to say who the globalists are. Globalists are like Mr Plenkovic who were in Brussels yesterday, today in Strasbourg, tomorrow in Davos they are people who feel everywhere and nowhere at home, those are people who visit the world and who watch what the world has to offer for them, and they do not wonder what the future of their own people is. Prime Minister Plenkovic's loyalty is not his own state, his own people, but his loyalty to the highest bidder. Today those who pay the most on the global market of human souls are Washington and Brussels, they pay the most and according to this Mr Plenkovic is loyal to them. But he is not loyal to them because of the well-being of the Croatian people but because of his own well-being, because of his own career. What is the problem is not only Prime Minister Plenkovic, the problem is the people on the other side of the political spectrum that are presented as left, but in fact the problem is neither left nor right, the problem is human character, the problem is people who put personal breakthroughs in front of the public. Politics should be a struggle for the common good, however, the question is whether today people sitting here in the Parliament, decisions they make, make motivated by the common good of all members of our community or making decisions motivated by personal breakthroughs? My judgment is that the great majority here are looking at their careers, looking only at themselves, unaware that we're all passing through here and that we're a cartoon in time. And that is why I consider my duty to point out the policy that leads our people to disappear. In 1950, the average woman in Croatia had three children, today she has only 1.4. Croatia's population has also grown on every census since '48. Until '91. when we were 4.7 million, but then we decided on one project, a project that proved to be fatal to the Croatian people, which is one criminal and puppet government that actually dissipates the domestic population, which destroys social values and actually the family as a fundamental unit of society. The result of this policy is very easy to see, we can see it by living in Croatia today less than 4 million people, which means as much as 700,000 less in translation than it did before 1991 or before HDZ came to power. However, where the HDZ stood, the SDP has always continued because both parties do not represent a different idea concept. You will not find a conflict between HDZ and SDP on the role of the Central Bank or on the construction of LNG terminals. We all know that the gas that will be dragged to Croatia through LNG is more expensive than the pipeline and that the resulting price of gas will rise. And then they argue, say HDZ and SDP about whether the LNG terminal should be floating or land, and no matter how the terminal is made, it will create a loss. The only difference is that one is more expensive and the other is more harmful to the environment, but both are essentially more expensive gas. And in that advocacy to these foreign forces, they don't choose means and ways. When foreign forces from Europe or Brussels say you must work until 67, then Bernardić and Plenkovic will vote both Milanovic and those who criticise them here from both parties, they will vote each other for work until 67. And the equality that HDZ and SDP offer to the Croatian people is next, they often talk about gender equality, so there is gender equality that men used to work until 65, and women by 60, and now in this spirit of gender equality will work both by 65. We'd be working until 67 if the signatures hadn't gathered for the referendum. And I want to tell you that this equality that puppet rule offers, equality in suffering, equality in exploitation. And the question arises whether the Croatian people want to support that policy? When I saw the result of the second round of presidential elections where the outcome was about a million for HDZ, the million for the SDP then I realized, in fact, that most of the Croatian people unfortunately still want that policy and that they think that this and such policy will have a better life or better tomorrow. However, if we have had this policy in the past and if we have seen where it has led us, we have to wonder where this policy will lead us in the future. Albert Einstein's famous physicist said in his own time that the definition of stupidity is to repeat the same thing expecting a different result. What voters who vote for HDZ and SDP are doing is repeating the same thing by expecting a different result, i.e. voting for the two parties in hopes that tomorrow will be better. And the question is whether or not we'll be better off tomorrow with those two parties at the helm of the state? Not in my court. And what most citizens don't know is that the biggest crime involved in monetary policy is that the Central Bank is a currency exchanger and that all money is defined as debt, and that's why our debt as a society is constantly growing. And what's going to happen? It happens that our children are born in debt and it happens that people when they're adults or when they get older die in debt. And why is that happening? Because it is a debt that follows this model, it is a debt that kills this society, and it is all actually conceived in a way that we as a society are forever in debt, that we are forever without money, and that foreign creditors are slowly taking over not only the property of our country but also political power through a way that the powers of the legislative bodies are delegated to Brussels and that more and more decisions are being made beyond the borders of our country. And the politicians who conduct this policy and that policy as I say are called globalists and I would call them careers with the lowest initiatives. These are people who have nothing sacred, people who change coats, people who talk to each other today, tomorrow. I wonder what's in your head, I wonder how you can't see which way you're going and where you're going to take it? I invite you Croatian people to sober up, open your eyes and see what he saw when he left Jerusalem for Damascus, he saw. But I'm afraid a large part of the Croatian people will go to the other world rather than see. And why is that? Because of the media, because of the corrupt media that manipulates and manages them, which governs their choices that tell them who to vote for, and every option that the media suggests is good, positive, cheerful, fun or whatever. Every option actually serves globalists because these same media serve globalists, that's what you need to know. So the media as well as the political elite in the service of the same structures, and every change that the media is offering you is always a change within the set frameworks, and the frameworks are such that the economic exploitation of our country and the demographic disappearance of our people continues. Now, perhaps the Croatian people open their eyes, perhaps not, were alive to see, but I am sure that future generations that will come will still be bearers of change because their brains are not as washed up as unfortunately to many people of older generations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181785	The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Lovrinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181786	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens. When I listened to Mr. Plenkovic's statement today about the situation in the EU and the Republic of Croatia, I definitely realized that we do not live in the same country. His picture of Croatia and the EU is idealized. The real picture of Croatia is with a lot more gray tones. What's not the same, why don't we see the same? We economic experts, and I belong to the economic profession, we respect only the facts, the arguments. 6.5 years ago, 1.7.2013. Croatia has joined the EU and what are the results? You see, during this period, there was a decline in the standard of living and the level of development and the degree of development of the Republic of Croatia in relation to the EU average. We fell 61% to 59% of the facts, dear citizens. We're not even in Schengen today, and watch the Presidency of the European Council, so isn't that a little funny not to say weird. Furthermore, corruption and crime are booming, so I call on the Prime Minister to use at least these six months, so when they come here, foreign means representatives of other countries and those countries leading the EU, France, Germany to finally assist in the calculation of corruption, so that at least we can benefit from the presidency, and that this presidency is not just one parade of the Prime Minister and his associates, where it is seen that the stardust from Brussels, Frankfurt is spilling, and when the six months pass, we see grey. We do not need a presidential event here but a defence of Croatian interests and that what we want within the EU is achieved because everything and everything has been promised before EU accession. Let's go in, people, in a few years we'll reach their standard, all of these are now seen by dear citizens of deception and lies. In that sense, which is still a fact, because we are talking about arguments, we from the party change Croatia we just want to talk if we are serious people and we are about arguments. We have a strong outflow of workers and the population in general, you see, so that freedom of movement, so we had freedom of movement in the EU when we weren't members of it, you have a passport. And you know what else is most important? If you have money in your pocket, if you have money in your pocket, you can travel wherever you want, not just in the EU. But dear citizens, I don't know, but in how much, however, the majority of Croatian citizens have no use for that freedom of movement because there is no money to travel. And what I would like to stress is that it speeds up the decomposition of sovereignty, the remaining parts of the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia, first and foremost with one unreasonable action and let's just say it's simply a violent action, a campaign to introduce the EUR-o into the Republic of Croatia as soon as possible, and thus wants to nail the last nail into the coffin, so this action. Let's see what the EU presidency brings here. Well, look, it's one more, as I would say, a ceremonial organisational function. Of course, it can promote, promote a country within the EU and the world, as our athletes do. I expect as an economist, an expert, that only hotels in Zagreb and catering facilities will profit, and unfortunately nothing more. This is what we will see 1.7 when the presidency of the Croatian Council of the EU is completed. It's a big parade as I said about the prime minister and associates, and in office I hope parliamentary elections, and I'm sure they'll never win again. The next question I want to update is the decline in EU financial support to Croatia. You see, I hear and hear here colleagues and colleagues that you, most of you, are not informed at all what's going on. So we release optimism, so we all have good wishes for Croatia to break through, export, etc. However, you see this Croatia has achieved 70 billion euro deficits in the past 10 years, all data are official statistics, in an external trade with the world. If you want me to turn into kuna, that's about 520 billion kunas. One Serbia covers imports 75% with exports, Slovenia 100%, Croatia now below 60%. What are you gentlemen boasting about, what are you boasting about? So don't deceive us anymore, we're talking about data. You have dragged us in and treated us and so fight in such a way that the shelves of trade chains, foreign trade chains that for 10 years have not paid one piece of profit tax are flooded with apartment goods, destroying our production of especially small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. That's true. And that's why I call upon you fellow citizens to resist the next parliamentary elections to support new people, new parties, us who fight hard, for the time being quite lonely, but all power is in your hands to support us to finally change the schedule of power here and to make this assembly a council, not someone's front, forgive the expression. Is there a bigger absoluteist than a man who's the head of the party, the head of government, he shakes the assembly, he edits everything, one man. And since I'm here in the assembly, I see it, I know it and that's it. There's no democracy here. Let's do a democratic revolution in Croatia. I'm inviting you to do that. What will Croatia gain less in the EU now by going out of Britain? EUR 100 million will be paid less from the guarantee fund according to the experts' calculations, EUR 150 million will be lower for rural development, which means around EUR 250 million or if you want a billion 900 million kuna. Who will make it up to us, where new sources come from, and agriculture is on its knees never produced less by our farmers. Why? Because incentives are shared even where they are not produced. The important thing is that you're in a party, a party, and nothing else. Two, three words about the problem of agricultural land. Two years ago, the Agricultural Land Act was passed here, not a single hectare assigned to our farmers' producers, not a single hectare. In recent days, Croatian forests have banned pasture in karst cattle areas. So it's pressing from all sides. Why? Because in the middle of this year, it stops the moratorium for sale to the farmland of foreigners. Then what's it gonna be? Well, of course you can see that home land is not given to domestic people agriculturally but simply prepares for someone else, and that was visible through Lex Agrokor when 30 000 hectares of the most fertile country in the Republic of Croatia by automation, means by the decision of this government assigned to a follower of Agrokor called Fortenova instead of our producers, so it's nothing but a planned strategy for how the Republic of Croatia to disintegrate, how to exhaust the end of so many resources. Now a few words about the role of the EU you see, I think that's true gentlemen, I'm sorry there's no Prime Minister, that's true what you're talking about the EU, so that would be great, but here's the fact, gentlemen, here we see assistants, counselors, so at least you know that the EU is no longer an important factor in international relations. I was in June at an international meeting in Moscow, 4, 4 countries can only arrange, let's do so, modern world, stabilize it, it's the United States, Russia, China, India, nobody mentions the EU anymore, I ask why? So she says, well, she can't stabilize herself, fix herself, understand, so that's true. EU 1980 It was a community then, it cost 30% of the world's GDP, you know how much it participates today? 22%. The process of disintegration has never been what it is, and yet you do not want us to discuss the future of the EU in the national parliament. Why? Because all you want to do is perform and listen blindly, and push us like geese in the fog, or be lost because there's someone there to think about. I have a lot to say, at the end of the day when I was in Russia, all exports there, the Germans are making a northern flow with the Russians, the French are exporting cars, the Germans are exporting their wines, this government hasn't made a move to take 6,000 tons of Mandarin out to the Russians, so that's the shame, that's this government, and we have to finally move it off the scene.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181787	Thank you. We have a replica, dear colleague Ivan Pernar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181788	Mr Lovrinović, I am sure that the Croatian people are not aware that the amount of money the EU gives us under quotes, because we are, of course, paying a membership fee of half a billion euros, that it is only a small fragment or small in relation to the money that we give each year to pay off external debt to those same Western countries. Please tell the Croatian people to open their eyes, to understand the ratio, means how much about billions of euros a year the RH gives these foreign creditors from the west to pay off the external debt, and how much money it gets, that difference as surplus membership fees from, like, some kind of grant from the EU, I think it would open people's eyes because people all the time think that the EU is full of pockets, and they don't realize that it is sucking money out of our pockets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181789	Thank you. My colleague Lovrinović's answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181790	So here I repeat the formula of the European Fodnes, you see, from 2014 to 2020, it was planned to be EUR 10 billion, you see what the EU formula looks like, listen to the ones you advise, 10 billion in order to withdraw we have to pay 5 first, so we have 5 left at our disposal, of those 5 billion, 60% is the least import components, so -3, we're left with 2 billion. But what my colleague Pernar asked, we're keeping out about 20 billion, which means almost 150 billion kunas with negligible 0.1% interest, and over the past years, we've been in charge of 4-5% and we've been talking to the Maltas not that she's organized a celebration of how she owes us cheaply. So they paid at 150 billion 7.5 billion a year for their money, for our money, for interest, and practically for our savings and depositors nothing, this is the truth of respected citizens about the EU, this government and what is happening.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181791	Thank you. We move on to the final word of the esteemed colleague Mira Bulj on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181792	Thank you very much, my fellow Members and colleagues, in the end, again as I began on behalf of the club at the beginning, said that today and what everyone said both the Prime Minister and the President of the Parliament today remembered that on today 15.1. The international community recognised the Republic of Croatia after the 9th century. And of course, when I remember those times, on that day of the day, especially all those who have defended the Republic of Croatia, who have been in trenches, we remember that day and the squawk that we experienced today, and today when we see the Prime Minister's report which is here, it presents its report from the European Council in the broader context of how he loves the word "Prime Minister" by looking back from Brexit to other things within the EU, but in a narrow context since '91. and the recognitions of the Republic of Croatia to this day when we look at this context, here is all the happiness we have for our free Republic of Croatia and now that we are in the EU for 6 years. We know that we have suffered a lot of hard work, that we had to, that our people had to toast Carly Del Ponte when we arrested our hero generals, that we had to arrest, locate and transfer, that we had to be simply servants of that system, we had no strength and courage to declare IGP, we did not in these frameworks protect the agricultural land so that the monatorium expires, I also gave the law here in the proposal and amendments to the agricultural land to ban the sale of agricultural land to foreign, foreign and legal persons, unfortunately not accepted, but here today the chairman, so these days the EU's presidency began, regardless of what it would have presided anyone here at, on, on this, on this, in power, because it was agreed and every Member State will do so. However, I personally am interested, as an agent, so if we are talking about demographics then we must say that 6.6% of GDP is from our citizens' figures according to the CNB statistics. These are the ones who moved out as a labour force and neither did Ireland when it was the hardest in it, had as much as 6.6% of the relationship in GDP as Croatia has. So you've evicted this people and that money that comes to Croatia according to CNB indicators, no matter how many more people give in money to families, that's much more, so that's 18 billion kuna coming to the Republic of Croatia from evicted Croats. We have economic growth that is not good, there are two-thirds of Croatia. Of course, we are talking about the financial framework in the next EU period, the European Commission, but the fact that we are at the bottom of the current framework is the last of us to pay for EU funds. We are not talking about contracted funds, but after the withdrawn prime minister's funds, Croatia is at the bottom. And when we talk about demographic measures, what demographic measures. What are effective demographic measures now? Here I am talking about the Dalmatian Zagora, so what demographic measures. I would be most fortunate if we had jobs in hill-mounted areas and... areas, if we didn't have a tax for five years, that we had a moratorium on entrepreneurs, that we had better conditions, I suggested it. And we have laws on mountain-mounted areas and undeveloped areas, but there is no financial framework or regulation. We have the equality that I am for equality, but the equality of our cashier who works in a foreign trade chain in Croatia to have the same salary as where it comes from from the EU trade chain. That's not the way it is, gentlemen. Regardless of not paying taxes on their products, imports, we prohibit in the karst area, we only reported 900 million hectares of 3 million hectares in the karst area of 8 counties, we only reported a third for cattle. And what do we have today? We don't have cattle, we don't have milk, and we're boasting that we're going to export milk to China, the protocol written in the Ministry of Agriculture and China. So, I expect security, security is the most important thing, that the Croatian army protects our borders, is that we have it in law and it is constitutional obligation, the security of our citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181793	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bull. ... Reporter, Honored Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia Mr. Andrej Plenkovic. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181794	Thank you very much. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected MPs and MPs. Let me end this debate on two topics that we have essentially brought together, perhaps this has not been seen because of some technical issues from the agenda, but the topic of today's discussion and debate in the essence of the Croatian Presidency programme of the EU Council, and it has also been united with this latest European Council Conclusion Report of December with of course... a report on how we do it all year round, so that you could see from my presentation that practically 90% of the exposure was on the subject of priority. First, to explain once again what the presidency means, what to expect from it and what benefit it brings to Croatia, because it seems to me that in the presentations of a series of colleagues there may be too many expectations, and on the other hand, what we have done and what we are doing is minimized. It's not a good approach, it's a bad approach. This approach shows first and foremost the first ignorance, and second inaccuracy in terms of what the government is doing and what is continuously doing in the field not only of promoting European values in Croatia but of strengthening our position in the EU. And it would be good for us to understand each other, and then also in the context of this debate, and some of the representatives referred to it as important. They are a kind of mirror of understanding of these topics both in parliamentary clubs and in political parties and even individually regarding MPs. Each debate is in a certain way and revealing in terms of attitude and understanding of European processes. So, first of all, all we did to prepare this presidency was also a long prepared and content quality, including all those who were supposed to contribute within the Croatian government. The debate on this same topic was also held yesterday at a joint meeting of the Committee on European Affairs and the Committee on Foreign Affairs, led by the foreign and European affairs ministers. So this is already the second debate in two days. Thematic discussions have been suggested by all ministers, I call on the Committee presidents to call on the relevant ministers to give their section of the Presidency because there are different Council formations, presentations to the Assembly Committees and to see concrete and detailed what is done both in the legislative and operational programmes, initiatives, key topics both further in certain areas and sectoral policies. As for the presentation on behalf of SDP's representative, Col. Klisovic, I have the impression that you're turning the saw upside down. You're turning your drink upside down, and you've been doing it all the time for the last few weeks with regard to those who, in relation to HDZ and the SDP, and even in this presidential campaign, had rhetoric that was toleranceal and those who didn't. So your candidate had exactly intolerant rhetoric towards the president of the Republic in the first round, and according to a number of other aspects as usual. So this saw upside down that you're suddenly champions of the world in community, and if someone else hadn't, it doesn't stand for me. You can try to portray her as one of your own policies, but it can only be someone who's very uninvited or who suffers from amnesia, so that's what's very important to keep in mind. And that's what you saw at the end of the line today on your current watch, the chicken will never go wrong. We know very well who is tolerant, who is inclusive, and who antagonists and who shares, so that's the first. As for counterpart Zekanovic, who also exhibited today, he spoke about values, he may have said in a way that he did not follow what we said yesterday in the European Parliament. We also talked about the Homeland War, we also talked about aggression on the Republic of Croatia and Croatian defenders and in a very firm, clear way we also showed European representatives and the public the European and even during their stay here in Zagreb which are the foundations of the modern Croatian state. There were no dilemmas, and that's also good for a lawyer named Bulj who spoke on this subject many times. And also to follow those details and see that exactly what he thinks we're not saying, we're very clear, explicitly, convincingly speaking. And as for this connotation of rope and wider, we work wider so that we are all respected and not in this way as MP Pusic said evoking her experience as young girls while she is professor i.e. Dad, I took you to meetings and suggested caution. We come there with credibility, we don't come for the first time, we come by our attitudes, our positions, our choices, our alliances, our preparations for our positions in coordination with others have worked for several years. We're not on unknown ground, we're not mercenaries or God knows what nebuloses we're not going to hear here from some MPs about who pays for who he works for, that kind of rhetoric is really inappropriate and under every level of political communication, not only because it's untrue, false, it's primitive and I say it very firmly and very responsible because it's slowly already through eight semesters with the best effort to make these exercises to be public information exercises and respect the Parliament, listen to nonstop statements so many times and so many times in a row, I really have to admit that it may be a little too much for the most tolerance among us. But unfortunately, it's an opportunity for everyone to communicate, so let those who say it take care of it. As for the political concrete achievements we will make, and keep an eye on those six months will pass quickly. There will be a few things left that will be in the legal character, and there will be a few things left that in phenomenal character will mark this presidency. I see there's a lot of ambition, a cry for a big debate on the conference on the future of Europe. So what do you think the purpose of my initiative as Prime Minister was in 2016 that we have this kind of plenary debate in the Croatian Parliament? Surely, it was not an intensities to listen to us as mercenaries or to beware of someone who might praise us or to apologize for the campaign’s statements. Well, it wasn't either intensity or the content of this report. The intensity of these discussions is that it is you as Parliamentarians, and some of you want to be multipliers and agents of these European messages, who are taking part in a substantial debate based on the knowledge of policies, knowledge of European law, the budgetary framework, concrete opportunities that Croatia can do, and what it can do now when the EU Council is chairman. There is no claim here that one fact that we have a rotating presidency becomes the ultimate PR of one's own. On the contrary, if it were to be an effect in the PR sense or a public rating of what we are doing on the European or international agenda, it would probably be 100 if I were looking at it realistically. But since that's not the case, then only those who have a problem with it, is there a little bit of anger, has little desire to put it together or minimize it or hide it in some way, and most often with numerous statements and banalizes it becomes quite redundancy compared to what we really want to do with these discussions. And that is why the debate on the Conference on the Future of Europe, so on the content of the project itself, and I will allow myself a few words because if I could explain it thoroughly to my colleagues in the Commission, I will explain the Conference of the President of the European Parliament to you, and I think that this is very necessary for Croatia. We have an amazing political phenomenon in Croatia, which is a young member, who entered the Union seven years ago, which since President Tudjman's speech in the Croatian Parliament on 30 May '90s clearly marked that its strategic goal is to be part of European integration. So that's where we defined the framework of political institutional, foreign-political state action, and most of the governments of key actors worked on that goal. There is even quite a serious and solid national consensus in the time of the negotiations. When the accession agreement was ratified here, I think only one MP was restrained, but I'm not even sure it was one, maybe just one. That's what we're talking about forerunners in the councils that were in this room. Why am I saying that? Because, meanwhile, something has happened that is happening in other members of the Union. In the phenomenal sense of the scene were the political parties, the movements of the most common protest movements that in Croatia not only existed then, they were not organised as political parties, they were not supported by voters, they were not simply sitting in the Croatian Parliament, they were not there. These are new actors, actors who can't and won't identify themselves with what some others have been doing and trying to do, not for themselves, not for their wages, not for being someone's mercenaries, but for Croatian people to live better. They weren't involved in it. When a person is not involved in a process at all, then he can be the leader of the opposition party using the strutting formula. So, if you as the leader of the opposition party who claims to be prime minister tomorrow you are able to pronounce to represent Croatia and to present it actively, argued, contentally, appropriate to what our size is and what our influence at European level means to you, then it is a huge content problem. It's not a rhetorical figure, it's a reflection of misunderstanding. Ununderstanding the situation of Croatia, governance, participation at the level of the European Council where the heads of state and government are, these are serious and experienced people, people who have their national agendas, their ideological frameworks, their political parties, political families, but understand that there is no progress at national level today without being strong and strong and quality and that you understand the European framework. If you don't understand that framework, and you show these statements that you don't understand, then you're not fit for that game. Not everyone can play every game, and quickly, and especially in such debates, it's a shame that they last a long time, which is a little tiring, which is what happens later in the evening few listeners, they're repeating the revealing. They're revealing to the end, and that's exactly who they are, what material they're made of in a political sense and what they want. And that is why the issue of the future of Europe must touch Croatia at this very core, let us see where this political problem is, where this lack of connection between Croatian citizens, their political representatives and what Europe today is or is not. How do we see where this social or European fracture that clearly exists exists? If we are developing political movements that are against the Priors, they have not moved their fingers to be in the EU, they do not understand what is happening there, but they are against it. In a casual, uninformed, basically one politically irresponsible way, but a part of the people listen to them. They have their own audience, maybe part of those people really thinks they're right, that's exactly what they're saying. Now that must be part of the debate, it must be part of the debate on the future of Europe. How in the time of the 4th Industrial Revolution practically in the digital time of direct democracy, where information that is available to everyone so large, so numerous, and verifying this information, verifying the source, whether or not it is true, in time, so for many because of the technology and disturbances of attention, this verification is not happening. It's given to spins, flossules, false lies, to be quite explicit. So then such situations lead to results both in the elections and in the referendums, it is not the people's fault, far from it, the people are wise, but part of the people use it to achieve their political goals, and here in some way to demonstrate the processes that Croatian serious political actors, key political parties, key institutions, wanted, wanted, wanted, worked on, reformed and positioned to be actors. For years. To stage some who will say it's strutting, that they're all mercenaries, that it's for personal interests, that we have to solve some of our interests right over the last 4.5 months. That's not good. It shows ignorance, it shows immatureness, it shows inadequacy to the subject of being quite explicit. And that is why the purpose of the conference on the future of Europe must, in my opinion, be, not a debate on institutions, not a debate on changes in the basic Treaties, not a debate on the budget, not a conference on the future of Europe, intended to be an inclusive, flexible framework, to substitute regular topics on which national parliaments or lower representative bodies speak at the level of the European institutions, not so. The purpose of this conference is to enter the very core, and the very core must be what European democracy is, what our national democracy is today, how we are making our interests come true in the time of technological change, that is the essence of this debate and where this fracture between those who do not feel perhaps the benefits of this project, which feel excluded, marginalised, who do not see where the pluses of this debate are. This must be the core of this topic, the political core of this topic, and it will be one of the topics. And in our communication in the documents that we do internally now as the chairman of the council, we will examine other members as they see it. Not all members see the conference of the future of Europe as seen by the European Commission or are seen by political groups in the European Parliament. Each country has its own view, and Croatia has a chance not only to give its view but to unite the views of the Member States at a time when we are considering what sovereignty is in the third decade of the 21st century. Is this the sovereignty of the 19th, 20th century, is this the definition of the textbook of international law on territory, on the people, on sovereign authority, or we will think about what sovereignty it is if we gather it to a European level in the context of an organisation that has existed for 70 years, if we bring it together and strengthen it in this way. We strengthen our own sovereignty by being in the EU. Not only as a rotating, chairman of the six months, but as part of that organization. Now, that's the debate we have to open. So maybe the topic of whether to liberalise the acquisition of agricultural land in 2020 as alluded by those who may know the details but deliberately say that it is this year, and probably because we already had that debate in 2023, they won't say that, and 2023 is, and others have passed that. So we'll talk about what the issue of emigration is, which is, the mistake of one government of this or one, or that is one broader context of one of the four fundamental freedoms of the EU, freedom of movement of workers, freedom of movement of workers is one of those freedoms that the EU makes to the Union because that would not be the Union, it would not be the Union, it would not be called that. Why is it called the Union? Why is there rasmus since '87?? So probably someone goes to study in another country for a while, learns another language, gets specialist knowledge, and then becomes competitive on the labour market, not only in their own country, but also in other countries, so they don't say that they've been strutting on that scholarship for a year, but they're getting new knowledge and they're getting better quality, so maybe they'll go and come back, that's the point, we're talking about freedom of movement. So instead of making a cynical reference to the fact that the very Republic of Croatia has put demographic revitalisation into the initiative of this Government as a European topic, it is someone who knows little about the competences of the EU, which are divided by the competences of the Union and of the Member States, which is the competence of the Member States, that they should recognize as one fine shade that even no one else has previously remembered, has not remembered, there is no act of boredom other than the strategic programme of the EU which we adopted in June at the European Council in which the demographic revitalisation is explicitly referred to as a common problem in half of the Member States that have a negative natural growth as well as we, there are countries that are still in a more demanding position than we, and where the cocktail of the negative nature of the people with the freedom of movement, and the fact that the fact that the people of the people from rural areas in the urban areas, from the developed, in fact, in fact, in fact, this matter of the very much of this number of the people have become a problem, which we, in fact, in fact, in fact, there is a lot more important number of the people, because of the people are not so much more important, because of the people, because of the fact, the people, the people, the people, the fact, the fact, the fact, the fact, the fact, the fact, the fact, the fact, the fact, the fact, the fact, the fact, the fact, the fact, the fact, the people, the fact, the fact, the people, the fact, and the people of the people of the fact, the fact, the fact, the fact, the fact, the fact, the fact, the people are the people who the people are the people are the people are the people that they are not the people who have the people are not the people are not the people are the people who are the people who are the people who have the people who are the people who are the people who are not the people who are the people who are not the people who are not the people who are the people who are the people who are the people who are the people who are the people who are the people who are the people who are the people who are the people who are the people who are the people who are the people who are the people who are the people that they are the The conference on the future of Europe must be inclusive, and I am glad that there are representatives in HS who want greater activists on the subject. Here, I propose, there is no fellow Milosevic here right now, that the next week after Kozak is here again, the minister comes back to the board meeting, the colleagues from the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs come back again, to hold a debate on the position that the European Parliament has held today, that they present to you exactly what the European Commission is thinking, that perhaps in the closed part of the session, they tell you what is going on in the Council, so that you can be more detailed, that we know where these processes are going, that is not the technical process, that is not the framework process, that is a substantial, a meaningful attempt to conduct a debate together, and that we can make it both RH and Europe better, closer to citizens, that is not the point of these discussions here to be further away from citizens, but to be closer to be, and we can be closer to understand what it is, that we should be able to get a little bit more informed. And therefore, esteeming the contributions of many MPs who have had excellent interventions of high quality and very useful, we will consider them, we will take into account them, we will take account of them at the time of our presidency for the next 6 months, we will try to make this presidency for the Republic of Croatia in international positioning an opportunity to be stronger than we have been, to be more respected than we have been so far, we have achieved a lot on the external political agenda, but the degree of profiling we will have these 6 months will not be able to measure with any activity so far in these 30s. without any dilemma, without any dilemma, and we will see that it will benefit from that and the Republic of Croatia in a political sense, that the administration will come to a higher level, that it will also be more effective in taking a position both in co-ordination and in monitoring European and global movements, will ultimately be more effective in the next financial perspective and absorption of the European Funds. It's not bad to be at the beginning of 2020 and have 83.5% of the contracted funds knowing that none of the deadlines M+3, which are 3.g. By the time the funds can be spent, it is not missed, but it means that by 2023, we will be able to do what we agreed, spend, and these money, 10 billion will be invested in the Republic, and end-users will benefit, whether those entities are economic or local self-government entities that may have carried the project, prepared it, or those actors who participated in its realisation, if that's the added value, that's the added value of our membership in the EU, those who are longer inside make it faster, more efficient, they are more brutal, they have had more training and games in their feet, we are still coming to that level. And this opportunity in a political sense, hunting in the face of so many topics, so many powers, so much interest is one level of game that requires that those who can and who know it play in it, and that's very important. That's very important to know. And that's why we're going to continue that profiling convinced that we've been preparing well for this, not for one month, not for two months, not for six months, not for the mandate of this government. Many actors in this work today dedicated 10, 15, 20, or 30 years of their work, and then that difference is evident. If a game is played by some who have been so prepared, then we are calm, confident, aware of what we can and cannot do. What we can already show and how much further we will strengthen through this, we will sum it up when these six months go by and I expect this process and the Croatian Parliament in an institutional, substantive sense to come out stronger. We do not have to agree on certain topics, we can discuss dynamics when it comes to, say, the euro introduction strategy, I will mention it one more time because I see that this topic here often causes reactions of parts of people, don't forget the accession treaty, we are a political and legal obligation to approach the euro area taken over. ... We signed in 2011, we took that obligation, ratified it, voted in the Croatian Parliament unanimously, maybe not everyone who was here today, those who weren't there today, so they couldn't say no hurry. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] In 2000, it was said, there were people who, when the Zagreb summit was held, with all due respect to the opinion to signal you go like geese in the fog, we will end up in Belgrade. But we didn't, but we didn't, did we? We are not, as far as I can see, Serbia is expecting and careful today and through this debate what Croatia is going to do about enlargement, watching what we are going to do because they understand our position. And then, with all the signals, the skeptics, the historical experience of certain actors, we didn't end up in Belgrade. Let's just say this one time clearly that we hear it and that we understand it, we're not. We ended up in an organization based in Brussels. Whose Parliament is in Strasbourg which is also the Croatian Parliament because we directly choose our representatives there. We didn't end up in Belgrade, we ended up among the most developed countries in the world. In both political and democratic, economic, social, any way we want a view. And there are no other organisations that would help us in our national development more than the EU. There isn't. See statistics from 2004 to 2019 in Central and Eastern Europe received a transfer from the European budget total of 365 billion euros, 365 billion Euros. Those who think that Europe is not good for us, it is not useful, let them look at the numbers, let them look at the numbers, always look at the numbers. They're also revealing, they're indicative. I'm saying this because I've been following this topic for years, I'm not saying it in a way that I need a pre-prepared speech, I'm not saying it in a way that I'm not sure who's responsible for what it is, I'm saying it with the conviction of someone who lives this topic, who lives this topic and who knows it's useful and good for Croatia. And so when I know how much we do to make ourselves better, I also want the Croatian Parliament and all its representatives to like or not to love this party or that party, this or that government to understand that this process brings us benefits. Membership in the EU is not harmful to us. It wasn't the point of this process since May 30, '90, so until now, the 30 years are a great symbolism to make us worse than to get better. We're better off. And there's no such spin, no lies, no difamation, no misinformation, no disinformation of what we're doing that's gonna change our attitude and our engagement, that's what I'm saying for those who'd qualify as if there's a strut and tomorrow they'd like to do that job. Don't try to prove it, it's not good, it's talking about you, so I'm saying this, with full conviction, because I'm behind it, I know how many engagements it is, and I know how many people who aren't so easily identified are willing to say something that isn't good. Yes, yes, yes, to talk about it, you talk more about it than the city council, that's the point of that topic, and the public needs to know, the public hears it somewhere, all of it being recorded somewhere and seen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181795	I thank the Prime Minister, Mr. Andre Plenkovic. We have replicas. Dear colleague Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181796	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. You say in the EU our young will go to other countries, gain knowledge, return here. Unfortunately, right now it's the other way around. There's a doctor, a pediatrician, one goes abroad. A finished product, meaning our children who are almost simply leaving. And when we talk about numbers, I'm not going to give you a touch or tell you about disclosure, we import 3 billion euros in food products. There's absolutely no such thing as cattle, no agriculture anymore. So how much did you withdraw for irrigation? Here is my Sinj field not watered, no karst field is irrigated. People are leaving, they're out of work. Just watch that little rope. Your width, you see the EU, the interests of the EU, see 2/3 of Croatia that are empty. And people leave and don't come back. That's a huge problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181797	I'd like to thank my colleague Bulj. The Prime Minister's reply, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181798	Dear Representative Bull, you should look at the numbers, too. Take a look at the agricultural exports from Croatia, the Union's largest last year, last year's largest. Look at those numbers when you say that. What am I trying to tell you? I want to tell you next. Croatian farmers received funds as direct payments from the European budget and rural development funds that were not available before EU membership. You know where they came from? From the state budget. They came from the state budget. The purpose of our entry into EU membership is here and there are people who deal with finance, when they remember two columns and a calendar of time when it will be. The funding from the Croatian budget is lower, left for other themes but from the European Council. Take a look at these numbers, get information, and see if it's good or bad. That would be important to you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181799	Thank you. The next replica, dear colleague Ivan Lovrinović, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181800	Dear Mr. Prime Minister, by analyzing your performance now, it's a shame that you didn't give a speech like 10 of these two years ago, and it would be very likely not to happen to Brexit, you know. But you will talk about the figures and do you know the prime minister that Croatia has been in the deficit of trade, foreign trade, for the last 6.5 years? Over 40 billion euros, my dear Prime Minister. We fell from 61% of the EU average to 59%, 300,000 people went, etc., so let's talk numbers, you're a big Democrats, so here's a critic for your colleague Kovac who will soon be your competitor, he's pushing for us to hold a plenary session here about the future of the EU, I've been begging you for the past two years, let's keep it, that people, that we talk in Parliament where we're going. Never, so you never let it happen, so come on, we'll clap, do something concrete and spotty... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181801	Thank you, colleague Lovrinovic. The Prime Minister's reply, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181802	Dear Representative Lovrinović, you've been taking part in this school of Croatian economists who are quite reserved for the euro, have I understood you well through these discussions in the past few years, is that correct? Seems to me like it is. So that's the message I understood. Do you think that I, as Prime Minister, could not launch this initiative with these discussions and come to the Assembly only practically for the current morning or to the budget as some other prime ministers have done or have come here with the goal of 8 semesters to open a European topic at a plenary session? It is very difficult to have a debate with such a procedural organisation through parliamentary form, a debate on a conference on the future of Europe. That's why there are two committees, organize a committee, let it take all day's debate. I'll bring you foreign experts, and if you need me and all the ministers you need, we can't bring that debate here. That you need to know, we can't run it here and what we're hearing here isn't every time encouraging to make it content to...... [[Intruder Lovrinović, not understood.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181803	I thank the Prime Minister. Mr. Lovrinović,...... Mr. Lovrinović, you had time for your replica and please...... [[Intruder Lovrinović, not understood.]] Please take care of it later. [[Intruder Lovrinović, not understood.]] Next replica, esteemed colleague Nenad Stazic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181804	Mr. Prime Minister, you are constantly talking about the benefits that Croatia will benefit from the Presidency of the EU Council and the merits of Croatia's presidency and the merits of your government for this presidency. There is no merit, it is the result of the rotation, the countries are changing in the presidency, so Croatia has come to order. It would be Croatia's turn if you were prime minister or if someone else were prime minister. There won't be any use for the citizens. Want to raise their salary? They want their pensions to grow? They're gonna cut the cost of their lives? So the only benefit will be for you personally because you will get a great opportunity to lobby for yourself by the EU institutions or by the European Commission during your shift or by your HDZ, Kovac and Stier or when you are replaced by citizens in the next election as your candidate, Kolinda Grabar Kitarović.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181805	Thank you, Prime Minister's reply, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181806	Representative Stazić, what are they doing in Brussels, Picula, Borzan, Fred Matic or colleague Jerkovic? Who do they work for? What was Mimica doing? What did Milanovic do to you as he went to the European Council, did you tell him? Was that a whisper? What was that? I appeal to you to stop it, you're short, you're weak, you're jealous, you're empty, you're nothing. These arguments are similar to some like Zekanovic, Mrs. Zakanovic. Dark Taritash and the like. who have been telling me here for two years will go to Brussels, he came here only to go to Brussels. So what's the truth? What is the truth of Milanovic's thesis in Brussels, who came back from Brussels? Who in Croatia returned here to the national mandate, paid national to work for Croatian people in all elements? That's enough of that. That's all the lies and diphthmies you threw away, so Bujanec and so on. It's... That's a lot to say. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181807	Thank you. Next replica, dear colleague Gordan Maras, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181808	Thank you very much. He looks at us, Mr. Plenkovic, a lot of our citizens on television, after your debate, a lot of them have already been asleep because it's been so calming quite difficult to follow, but here you may now be following this energetic "sufficient" and waking up few people but what bothers citizens a lot more is that you keep explaining to them that you are trying, that everything is great but they don't feel it or see it. Now it's either you or the citizens. So should we, Mr. Plenkovic, replace the people so that you are happy or should we replace you to make the people happy? Let's try to make a deal here. Are we going to replace you or the people? We can't, we can't both. So one of your own, it's probably easier to replace you. So try to understand that...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181809	... Indica Brkić: Thank you./...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181810	...as much as you explain this together, no one sees it or understands it...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181811	... Upadica Brkić: My colleague Maras, thank you./...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181812	... and even until today you have not declared your best man Bandic's support,...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181813	... Insect Brkić: colleague Maras./...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181814	... I invite you once again to say "enough"...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181815	... Insect Brkić: colleague Maras./...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181816	... but say "enough" to corruption in Zagreb. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181817	Based on an article. In 239, I give you a warning because I warned you a few times to watch your time. I've tolerated you for 10 seconds and yet you've continued. The Prime Minister's reply, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181818	Dear Representative Maras, therefore, what have you always been? Zero zero seven, right? Zero zero seven and we didn't join the EU parliament, so what do we do now? And now we have to talk here about city issues at national level where it's not a topic and so, here's three years. And so for three years. A conference on the future of Europe wouldn't be too bad for you and your club. With a few honorable exceptions. It wouldn't hurt. She'd light up a little bit. There'd be a little illusion, something new would come out, something would learn, and they'd remember why when you took power after HDZ negotiated membership, you couldn't figure it out. I didn't need a breakthrough. In a second, we hooked up, like a charger in a cell phone. And you haven't had enough for four years. And that's what the people know, and they know it and... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181819	Thank you. Thank you. Next replica, respected counterpart Josko Klisovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181820	Thank you very much, Mr. Prime Minister. She drank backwards. Who turns the saw upside down? You or me? Condemned by the Croatian people or citizens in the presidential elections where the issue of unity and division was one of the main topics and so much about it and I think the story is closed. But you did not answer me that HDZ and you as president are behind the statements of your senior party officials, that Croatian citizens are shared in people and religious ones. Nationality to the Croatian people is confirmed by the vote for HDZ candidates or HDZ membership cards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181821	Thank you. Answer, Prime Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181822	Dear Representative Klisovic. Are you standing next to your fellow Stazic who is here in front of you, who said that some have not finished their jobs at Bleiburg? You're standing by it? Are you standing by the white man, are you standing by the white man who is able to write in illiterate English who, I'm not going to say, I'm not going to quote him what he wrote wrong and what language, who is to blame for the wars and who are the ones who did 91-99? Are you aware of what he wrote? Are you standing by your coalition partner? You answer me that question. Those sentences, these two statements are much bigger than political sentences within a political campaign when they respond to your candidate's rhetoric, which is all we just don't wake up together. We release the phase after the election, we talk about the election. Did you listen to the confrontation? Did you hear the tone, did you hear the contempt?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181823	Thank you. I thank the Prime Minister for his reply. [[Upadica Plenkovic: Representative Klisović, you answer that.]] We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Dear colleague Klisovic, you had a replica, I hope you will not abuse it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181824	He's injured 238. Mr. Prime Minister, if you'd listened to what I said on behalf of the SDP Club, you'd have the answer to your question and don't manipulate it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181825	Dear counterpart Klisovic, I have kindly warned you that you are not abusing the Rules of Procedure's Infringement Institute. Based on an article. In 239, I give you a warning. We move on to the next line, dear colleague Sasa Djujic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181826	Thank you very much. Mr. Prime Minister, you've seen this final address as obvious as the adjudicator's exam today. And you haven't learned anything, you haven't changed anything, you've been talking to us all along, you're telling us who's tolerating, who's sharing, you're going back to the former government of Zoran Milanovic, and here I am now under the impression, I have to say. You said we were weak, poor, weak, and what are you like when we beat you twice in the last six months? When are we so poor, so weak and weak, we win? And you lower your loss at the loss, I don't understand it, so give me a little explanation here. Then another thing, now you're talking about lies and spins, so listen to your colleagues for talking for the last six months about lies and spins in their discussions? I'd like to sign some of the things you said, give them a little explanation. You and your club need a conference on the present of Croatia to see where people live and how they feel, and when you talk about whether or not we've seen the confrontations, give yourself a look in the mirror how your performances are [[Invader Brkić: Thank you.]] And what your tone is. [[Upadica Brkic: I thank my colleague Đujic.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181827	The answer, Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181828	Your Honor, Mr. Djujic, you've been a little out of line for me. I did not mention the current clock at all, this was very precise about your colleagues and their statements regarding the Croatian presidency of the EU council, not the Government, not the HDZ. Whatever it was, it could have been yours. Would you like to take a walk then? Would they be strutting back then? Go ahead. I'm glad you're signing some of my statements, that's good, the thesis that you beat us in the EU elections I haven't noticed, I haven't heard it, I don't know if the numbers, the ones that are bigger, are bigger than the ones that are smaller. Yes, it is, it is. You look at the percentages and you'll see. But it doesn't matter. You look at the impact. That's your standard. The impact is measured, not that number. And that's where we beat you. And as for the presidential election, I congratulated the winner. In 2016, I didn't hear either that you or that defeated candidate of yours were congratulating us. It's a culture. [[Invader Brkić: Thank you.]] It's a community, it's a community I'm talking about. Take care of it. [[Upadica Brkic: I thank the Prime Minister.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181829	The next replica, dear colleague Slaven Dobrović, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181830	Thank you very much, Mr. Prime Minister. I see the topic of environmental protection, climate change, the Green Deal, so it's increasingly mentioned in your speeches. And it's clear at the prime level, it's actually one, one decoration, these are topics and real implementation should be seen in sectoral policies, primarily environmental and energy protection, however, both in other restaurants and when it comes to seeing how the relationship is declared important, so it's spoken from your level, which is fine and in line with EU policy. And what's going on in the field, then you can see we've got a big problem. So there's nothing in sectoral implementation and clientele runs the entire sector, I warned you about it, there's a particularly big problem in the waste management sector.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181831	Thank you. The Prime Minister's reply, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181832	Dear Representative Dobrović, let's split it into two aspects. One aspect of the implementation of all that is operational with regard to environmental, energy, waste management and implementation of operational programmes through the financial framework we have today. The green plan on the agenda is much wider, it is a transformation plan for both the European and Croatian economies, and what we see, we see it as a chance. It's not a resort where you worked as a minister in my government and I repeat, I appreciate what you've been doing, I'll say it one more time and wherever you need to be. It's a horizontal theme in which almost all the resistors have their assignments. And we are working to make this an integral part, such as the cornerstone of human rights, an integral part of the EU's foreign policy, so the green plan will be part of all economic and sectoral activities of the EU and Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181833	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed colleague of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181834	Thank you, Mr. Prime Minister, for not giving you the right to tell me and my colleagues behind me that we are not for the EU. Yes, and we are fully aware of the benefits Croatia has for EU membership. However, it is one thing to advocate EU membership and another to tell the truth about the EU presidency being a technical job. Sometimes when the EU had six members, it was a little different, but today it's a technical job. And you resisted showing it to a different extent, to the extent that you spent a million and 400 thousand kuna on that pathetic televised tripod. Well, that's worse than the traffic renaissance of Croatia. And he talks about how much you don't believe in what you've been saying for days that the presidency is something that has raised Croatia to world policy pedestals.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181835	Thank you very much. The Prime Minister's reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181836	Dear Representative Grbin, who said that I said you were against the EU. I didn't say that, you have this habit of pulling something that isn't said, it's not the first time. I'm just talking about the approach and attitude of several of your colleagues from the SDP Club who almost despised the view of something that is Croatia's great responsibility. You've never heard from me that it's something unusual, something superior and something that's above all other subjects. No, absolutely not. For me, it's just like getting into a car on Saturday morning when I got news from Minister Bozinović right away to Andrasevec, go and see the tragedy right now, this was more important to me than this presidency. But unlike you and your colleagues, especially the preconceived government presidents, I know something about this subject, not yesterday, but a long time ago. And I'm doing it with confidence for Croatia's well-being despite your false thesis and you haven't accepted the invitation of the Croatian government to a cabinet meeting in your hometown. And that's what our pullegans need to know about the integrity of the institutions you're growing.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181837	Thank you. Next replica, respected colleague Davor Bernardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181838	Dear Prime Minister, you've come here to be high and boastful as usual if you'd had a fight with SDP agents if you'd improved your position in front of the party's election. And all we've been looking at in these half-hours of exposure here was actually strutting. Take a walk here in the Croatian Parliament because you can't and can't strut in Brussels and Strasbourg. You're smaller than a masculine grain there, you're looking at the floor, you're listening to the instructions of those who give you instructions. But if you had listened well to them then you would have heard that in a detailed report the European Commission has written that you run the most corrupt government in Croatian history. And I've learned something in politics, it's not safe that anyone from the SDP will either, but it's much safer that you won't be prime minister anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181839	Thank you. The Prime Minister's reply, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181840	Dear Representative Bernardic. Here I was a representative at the Euorphic Parliament for 3.5 years, working in Brussels as a diplomat, working in Paris, going to European councils now for the 4th year and listening to what you say to the Croatian public that it is happening there. You, like no one from your party at those meetings, you don't exist there, you don't exist. Did you hear me right? You don't exist. Because if you were being polite, if you were being cultural, if you were being nice, you wouldn't be oblivious to this kind of nebulist and lying at all. It's your shame, it's not an insult to me, I'll shake it off the lapels like this, but it's your shame. It is your shame, your ignorance, your unwillingness to lead anything, let alone be part of the European Council. That's the ID you send to messages like this. And you're at the level of some... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181841	Thank you. Next replica, dear colleague Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181842	Dear Prime Minister, I remember when you said that the reason you lost the presidential election was because a lot of people moved out of the county under HDZ control. I think it would be nice to ask yourself why these people moved out, if it had anything to do with the policy that you're running. And as for your promise of 8000 euros that people will work from home, i.e. From Mrs. Colinda, who was your candidate, people are still waiting 1000 euros for the newborn your previous Karamarko promised them and they haven't received them yet. The public simply doesn't trust you, you've seen it now and you'll see more defeats in your life, they're only ahead of you because you've read the book. And that's it. I may not have a future in the politics of Mr Plenkovic if the Croatian people determine it but I think you will not do the same, and it will be a much greater loss for you because I am not a materialist unlike you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181843	Thank you. The answer, Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181844	Dear Representative Pernar, I do not know what the Croatian voters will do, perhaps you are re-elected, there may be people I respect, who believe that what you are saying to the Croatian public and to your colleagues in the Parliament, and even on this topic now, let alone about other topics is good and correct. I respect that, I disagree deeply. I disagree with your thesis on the occasion of paraphrasing them, almost giving them the right to take justice into their own hands, take a long weapon and kill people in broad daylight in Split, these are your messages. Do you think that as a man with a elected mandate from the Croatian people, you send a good example to the Parliament? You like to take pictures with minors and students, think about it. You're appealing that people don't get inoculated. Your messages to me as an informed and educational man if I wasn't this, they wouldn't be attractive, they'd be filtered quickly. Unfortunately, there are people who are okay with it. And that's democracy.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181845	Thank you. Next replica, dear colleague Arsen Bauk, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181846	Mr. Prime Minister, you've been on your way lately with statements that have begun to quote, I personally liked the one about the so-called. the hard co-habitation between the President of the Republic of one political option and the Government from another political option. That's where the Constitution has already set up some frames. But what I'm afraid is that there is another co-habitation between you as prime minister and the new HDZ leadership, it will be that co-habitation in the soft if this is hard, but it will be smooth and densely chasing... I just want to know what it would look like, then who would be the government, who would be the opposition? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] How the state will function, so you'll have to take care of your citizens instead of taking care of them while you run the government. Can you explain that to me? I don't get it. Some say you can't do that, and you might say you can. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181847	A fellow bogeyman, I'm glad you're holding on to the subject, but here's a response from the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181848	Dear Representative Bauk, as an excellent mathematician and constitutional-legal expert, I'm sure you may and may not... You know how it would be, it doesn't just have to be hard and wet, it can be in... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Bauk and I are in Hvar-Marriage Relations and basketball so we can afford this. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It will be in accordance with the Constitution, in accordance with the competences. You, I am sure that through the activities of the Assembly Committee, you are very well aware of the powers of the President, or the President of the Republic, which are the powers of the Government and the Croatian Parliament, and that means that. That means it. With two significantly different political options. We've had these occasions before, we've seen it. I will repeat to you today, we have had the opportunity of a president who was a member of the SDP, before Josipovic, who supports the collapse of the government before the end of the negotiations, it is this great political responsibility, to support Facebook protests, not to finish negotiations, we might be at this summit that we in Zagreb will have on the other side of the table that these intentions have succeeded and you wanted it. Take care of it. ... Yeah, yeah, it's time out, three. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181849	I thank the Prime Minister. Next replica, dear colleague Grozdana Peric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181850	Dear Prime Minister, you have lived the European path for many years. What you have pointed out is that some of the representatives here are reducing the importance of the EU as well as the importance of Croatia, and that is exactly how these malignancies actually share in this home, and I think it will remain that way. As a state, we can only be sovereign as much as we show that we are thinking about problems, that we are involved in European problems, as well in the European budget, but also in all the topics that concern us. Therefore, we can only be as big as we think about ourselves within the community in which we belong.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181851	Thank you. Your Honor, the Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181852	Your Honor, I agree with you, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181853	Thank you. I am concluding the debate, thanking the Prime Minister for his report and his associates and associates. We'll vote on this point when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181854	Now let's go to the vote on the debated points. The first is the report by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia on the meetings held by the European Council in 2019. The applicant is the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. In line with the proposal of the HDZ Club of Representatives, the Croatian People's Party - Liberal Democrats, the Croatian Democratic Party, the Croatian Social Liberal Party, the Croatian Democratic Union of Slavonia and Baranja, the Club of Representatives of National Minorities, the Party of Labour and Solidarity Club and Independent Democratic Party, I am voting for the next conclusion. A report by the President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the meetings held by the European Council in 2019, which forms an integral part and programme of the Croatian Presidency of the Council of the EU from 1 January to 30 June 2020, is hereby adopted. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the vote is 79 for, 34 abstentions and 15 against that conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181855	We move to the next item of the agenda, that is: - Proposal to launch the issue of trust Blaženka Divjak, Minister of Science and Education in the Government of the Republic of Croatia The applicants: 31 MPs in the Croatian Parliament are 31 MPs and representatives in the Croatian Parliament on the basis of Article. 116. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The government has delivered a statement, please the proposal's representative, Mr Davor Bernardić, to give us an additional explanation of the proposal, please welcome fellow Bernardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181856	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, here is first and foremost another important debate on one important matter and there is talk of a system of education that is due to the ruling majority and these governments being pushed late into the night. Why? I guess citizens can't see the shame the education system is about, how another social pillar on which our country's future is actually falling apart and how it's devastated. You hid this debate from the eyes of the citizens just so they wouldn't look at the shame in the education system that you've just produced, Prime Minister and Resolute Minister Divjak. We all agree that full curricula reform is necessary for Croatia and should have been implemented long ago. However, the reform has been halted. It was stopped for alleged, imaginary ideological reasons in Prime Minister Tihomir Oreskovic's government. Unfortunately, in the current HDZ and HNS government as a result, the HDZ and HNS government, as a result of voter fraud, voter betrayal, defection, an unnatural coalition that is exclusively interesting and materially bound, served as a fig leaf and as an excuse for coalition. As she took up her post, Resolute Minister Divjak said that exactly the curriculative reform would be the focus of her work, what she will advocate, what she will fight for, and the Prime Minister has stated on this topic, I quote, in this new situation, the Divjak is able to find the best ways to make this topic a topic of gathering, not a topic of separation. Soon, however, both Divjak and Plenkovic, themselves, and then the entire Croatian public, were denied. The School of Life project is not a complete curricular reform as it wishes to be shown. In addition to the fact that the minister rejected the foundation of curricular reform and the roof document, so-called The framework of the national curricula, it has kicked out of the School of Life and important components of full curricula reform such as, you have expelled the systematic and quality education of teachers and teachers, further, what you have thrown out, you have thrown out a change in the system of monitoring, evaluation and evaluation. You've also thrown out more selectivity in senior high school classes, you've also thrown out systematic solutions for gifted students and students with difficulties. So-called The school for life of vocational schools is only partially covered, and only in general, and the three-year schools are in the second experimental programme. The new solutions for art schools are completely lagging behind. And in this way, through this rejection of all the essential elements and strategies of education, science and technology, which was adopted without a vote against in the Republic of Croatia, we can conclude that educational reform, and thus neither the curriculative reform practically exists. Furthermore, on the basis of the results of scientific research, which was conducted in collaboration with the Institute Ivo Pilar by the Association of Croatian Teachers, the experimental program of the School of Life, he received barely a passing grade, sufficient 2, by those who actively conducted him in the school year 2018/2019. So, from teachers, from teachers, from professional associates, from directors, they gave him barely a passing grade. Their common finding is that the school of life has been introduced violently, recklessly, under-prepared, and therefore the key educational institutions, such as the Agency for Education and Education, the National Centre for External Evaluation, the trade unions in education, for example the Renaissance, the Association of Directors of High Schools, the leading experts in this sector have justified the lack of thorough preparation for the frontal introduction of the School of Life in all schools and have been appealed to the Ministry, but also to the Government, to delay the introduction of the same for a year. And despite all these appeals to the expert public, the government and the ministry have not given up their intention. However, further in implementing the reform due to irregularities in the public procurement process, as this always comes back to the story and this public procurement of textbooks and illicit double funding and methodical manuals from EU funds and the state budget, the EU will not re-fund part of the amount on those items of the School of Life. In fact, 6.4 million kunas will have to be paid out of the state budget because of your failures. So here are the mistakes made, of course and the damage to the RS budget. It is also a slow purchase of pills that equipped schools involved in experimental implementation of the School of Life. Namely, after several months the tablets were screened, and the high cost of repairs had to be borne by the parents of children attending schools. Most of these professional trainings for teachers, teachers were conducted online, through the Lumen platform, and about this same platform teachers and teachers expressed themselves explicitly negatively in protesting the market. But then the plot begins. On October 10, 2019, after the union and government’s peace of mind collapsed, a strike in primary and secondary schools began. The minister who runs this resort is responsible for a never-long strike in the history of Croatia in which children and their parents suffered. It is also responsible that there is no educational reform, which this educational reform has actually come down to supply, to the public procurement of cheap pills that half of which don't work, but that's not what I said. That's what the teachers at the protest said. That's what the witnesses of the administration's non-implementation of education reform said. Of course, it gave up on the things foreseen in the development and education strategy, it gave up on 9-year-old compulsory education, it gave up on different evaluations and evaluations, it gave up on the state's way of graduation, it gave up working with gifted children and children with disabilities, it gave up on children. Unfortunately, it gave up on children, their future, and the result was demoted and bitter teachers who showed in never a longer strike in history. Today, however, it will be interesting to watch the resolution minister defend those hypocrites from the government, the ruling coalition and HDZ that attacked her in those months. Let me remind you of what her coalition partners were saying about the minister. Minister of Labour and Pension System Josip Aladrović, quote, is it correct of Blaženka Divjak to distance herself? He's been running a resort that's been collapsed for 29 days. My personal position that the minister should make order for all the forces in the guide, not to get away from the side and transfer responsibility to her colleagues and to the prime minister. The end of the quote. Radovan Fuchs, the special adviser to the prime minister, I quote, the minister's statement that she does not agree on any side is untrue. In fact, the minister voted in the government for the adoption of a budget in which the union's request was not financially incorporated. At that point, she regrets that there are no union requirements in the budget so that, by voting for the budget, the minister has hardly taken sides against the union requirements." Akadamik Željko Reiner, vice president of the Croatian Parliament, quotes: "I personally realized that Divjak resigned. When you are a minister in the government and say that you do not want to participate in the power games between the union and the prime minister, that you cannot be classified on either side, it is actually resigning." Minister Oleg Butkovic, 11.12.2019, quote: "It is not normal for a coalition partner to attack the current President Kolinda Grabar Kitarovic, who is the candidate of that same coalition partner with whom you are sitting in the government." Kolinda Grabar Kitarovic, 4.12.2019: "The results of a series of research show that our education system rather than moving forward, unfortunately goes backwards, we cannot possibly be satisfied with those results for 2018. Unfortunately, I think it is one of the proof that this reform of education that we are talking so much about does not bring results and that we have to move harder." Milan Bandić, Mayor of Zagreb and main coalition partner Andrej Plenkovic, quote: "Mrs. Minister, not only does the poor girl not understand anything, she's experimenting with the children, which is dangerous. "The school of life is a private experiment by the minister that none of the experts supported or discussed but is not all. Minister Divjak does not understand what it means to be a coalition partner and is blackmailing the prime minister. What she doesn't know and doesn't understand is the problem of the prime minister who's holding but not my problem. I can't forgive her for breaking the law, I can't forgive her for throwing 8 million kunas at methodical textbooks and I can't forgive her for getting pills at even twice the price they can normally get." Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic: "Every minister is responsible for the portfolio. I remind you that we are members of the government here, not members of the union." Here you go, ma'am. Ministers, this is what your coalition partners and your boss said about you and I will remind you of what you said on November 19th when you said, I quote: "Today's situation where the system is actually in a complete blockade is actually the result of the game of power and competition between the union and the prime minister and I can't and I don't want to participate." Later, explaining this statement of behavior by some members of the government, you compared it with the behaviour of immature people that you brought to you by saying "the truth of pain." You see respected members and members of the ruling coalition, teachers showed you by last strike that people are not goods and that you can't buy them as you bought this parliamentary majority. We live in a country where the government mocked teachers, in this way you have shown how much you care about the future of our children and the future of our country. On the other hand, Minister Divjak only pretended to care for the teacher, that she cared about the salary increase, and the first time her chair was threatened, between the teachers and the rest of her chair, she naturally chose to stay in her chair. She's always suggesting something, but the Prime Minister doesn't hear it, doesn't see it, ignores it, actually the president of the HDZ wants to tell her as well as his coalition partner, you're irrelevant. It only matters to me when you come here on Fridays, when you come raise your hand for my ruling coalition. And apparently, in this immoral coalition there is no agreement on anything other than the self-interest and one sick desire to remain in power. And in the end, everyone knows that the second semester started but in some schools like the OS Nikola Andric in Vukovar, children still don't have textbooks. At the beginning of the second term, children still do not have textbooks, in Croatia, in the 21st century. Is this an educational reform? Unfortunately, there is no educational reform, and you have ruined everything so much that you should have left the minister's position a long time ago.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181857	Thank you. Continuing on behalf of the promoter, dear colleague Sabina Vosovac, please welcome,
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181858	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected ministers with associates. Croatian society has shown how much it cares about education and how much it realizes that education is important for Croatia, it showed on three occasions. When it came out on the streets, so in the last four years, three times our fellow citizens went out on the streets, all three times for education. For the first time in 2016, the second time in 2017, wanting to support changes in education, full curricula reform and last time a month ago, on November 25th, solidarity not only with union demands to correct the injustice that was done to these people, but also by sending a very clear message that education is unfairly neglected in society and that they want a different, fairer distribution of social and state goods of social and state money. You have also participated in grand protests for a better future of education in 2016 and 2017, and when you came for the minister, many have waited for you as a cold sun, as a cold sun, you have awakened hope. We did not vote for you in this Croatian Parliament, but we said on the board that you would have our full support to continue what we started with, to do something good, to ultimately implement what the Croatian Parliament, the Strategy of Science, Education and Technology about which there was no dispute in the Croatian Parliament, there was no vote against. However, when you came to the Minister's place first what you did you stood over the unity of this Croatian Parliament, you denied the strategy of education, science and technology. You took the right to all these people, no one was against the strategy to say no, I'm not going to implement the Strategy of Education, Science and Technology. You did not adopt an action plan for the implementation of the Strategy for Science, Education and Technology which you were obliged to do. Secondly, the entire curricula reform that was an integral part of the strategy you stopped, or you took documents, one part of it and as the shopping centre said no, I will only take the curricula in question, for children with developmental difficulties I do not care about. For gifted students, I don't care, let art schools wait for their chance. Preschool, no, that's not what I'm interested in. Monitoring evaluations and evaluations, that's not what I'm gonna do. A stronger education of teachers, teachers, no, I'll do it my way through the lumen, force them to collect badges to make progress in this way, and then, with the advances and their wages, they'll be tied to the collection of these meaningless badges. All the parts I'm talking about now that you've rejected are part of the whole, and I'm stressing the full curricula reform that was supposed to change the paradigm from preschool to high school education. You didn't do it. From that, you rejected the strategy, you humiliated the Parliament, you put yourself above the law, and you decided to introduce the experiment you called the school of life. An experiment you called a school for life. This experiment was reduced to the tabletisation of Croatia, more specifically to the purchase of tablets that shoot screens, which do not have read codes, or have no cameras, which would mean that you have disabled access to digital content for students, which of course is completely illogical. Secondly, you've brought your project down to a lumen that I've already said something about, and which has caused the anger of teachers and teachers, you've seen it in protest, if anything is the loudest whistle, it's whistled at that humiliation, that humiliation, the administrative burden and that humiliation, and you've reduced your reform to the introduction of information. So other than violating the documents and strategies that are at the level of the law, you're also making independent decisions that you don't have a mandate for. You have introduced information, information is not prescribed, the introduction of mandatory information in the Education, Science and Technology Strategy, nor has that decision been prescribed by any other body responsible for, nor by the expert working group co-ordinated by Mr Fucks, nor by a special expert committee that monitors the implementation of a strategy led by the Prime Minister himself. You made the decision on your own. But that doesn't surprise you. You made the decision the other day, so faced with the fact that so many graduates have never failed on the summer deadline of the national graduation exam, especially since now a negative trend has appeared in Croatian. How did you decide to solve the problem? Do not improve the competences of our children to make this transition to the prom more or reform the graduation which should be done in full curricular reform according to some new waves in education. What did you say? So look, we'll sort it out the way that here I've decided to know that here's the essay where a very large number of children handed over empty papers on the summer period and hence, and the essay is a condition for passing, passing the graduation from Croatian language and literature, you said he would no longer be a condition for the Croatian language graduation. What kind of message is that to the kids? What kind of message is that? So you can hand over the blank papers at the Croatian language graduation and you'll pass the prom. And on the other hand, the fact that in the PISA study, we say again that we are below average in mathematical literacy, in natural literacy, but also in reading literacy. Reading literacy is simply a prerequisite for understanding tasks in mathematics, physics, natural sciences. That's how you solve problems. The other day you're making a decision on the time period of national graduation, you're forcing your graduates to go to prom for six days, out of essays, out of essays, out of essays, out of essays, out of essays, out of essays, six days before the senior year. Regulation number, article 16, states that the student cannot access the prom unless he has successfully completed his school year. How to get a child on an essay when he can't get in yet for finals, for finals. So what's a minister? You're making crazy decisions on your own, past the rules. Not to say that there is no framework for national curricula in the entire curricula reform. This may not mean a lot to you now, colleagues and colleagues, but if we want to get from drumming content in schools to the application of knowledge and the acquisition of competences, the only document in which it is described and a roof document of the framework of the national curricula was prescribed, the minister rejected it. She brought some of these below, what she did most, those 450 teachers and teachers who worked at the head, headed by an expert group with Mr. Jokic and no frames. So we missed the story because in that integrity we simply executed ourselves. Violently introducing a school to live in schools this year after an unimplemented evaluation of the experiment that was conducted at 74 schools is a couple of excellence negations of any scientific approach, you are a scientist. Today I see on the HNS page like this, there's an ad like that, a sponsored ad, to whom you would leave the future of your children, a minister who's a teacher and a scientist where she's shown smiling in color, on the right side of her in black white as petty politicians where they're from photos of Maras, Grumoje and, and, and Pernar, whatever you think about these MPs, they're MPs in HS, and you as a scientist should know that you're not introducing a project frontal in all schools before you have an evaluation, evaluation of the experiment, you just did it. But now that I don't speak from the perspective of a person who doesn't participate in this, in these processes because I really don't participate directly, I don't work at school, I don't work in the ministry, I'm not in the agencies, but I have to trust people who are in the system, so when you're in the process, you decided to introduce a frontal to all schools full curricula reform, the profession asked you not to do that, asked you for a year's delay. In a month and a half of summer months, the rebirth union collected more than 3,000 signatures from teachers and teachers by name and last name that warn you and the prime minister that this reform was not well prepared, that there were no predispositions for her, for her introduction, and that you would be wrong if you forcefully introduced it into schools, you did not listen. It was also warned by the Education and Education Agency, the Master and Teacher Education Board, you didn't simply listen to them, you deafen them to it, they warned about the research conducted by the Institute Ivo Pilar, who evaluated, assessed the experiment in his evaluation, score 2. Many warned that things would not be good, that we would give ourselves a little time, that we would go on a thorough approach, you wouldn't listen to it, you claimed that everything was fine. We as observers on the side and those who do not participate in the process can trust you that everything is under control or people who carry the whole story, I don't know why we wouldn't believe them, they have no interest in lying to us, to upset parents, to disturb the Croatian public, they have no interest in it, they can evaluate it, they carry the whole story, is something ready or not, but you have decided simply for another approach, you gave up the delay required by the profession, and you have introduced a simple violent school of life, the experiment of the School of Life in Croatian, Croatian schools without preparing the story and without having provided for the end and the value, the material evaluation of people who should have worn it all on their back that you didn't do it, you didn't do it. We can talk here about the prime minister's responsibility for the strike, the prime minister must have contributed to the fact that the strike lasted so long and that it was the longest strike in history because by avoiding dialogue, by humiliating, so little by one stubborn approach things were too long, 36 days, 16 days for compensation, the kids started school early, they won't have spring holidays, the longer the summer, the summer at school, it's the prime minister's fault, yes, because why? In the end, he gave in to what he could satisfy on the second, third or fourth day that we don't have such circus compensation, hysteria, and nervousness, but you're also responsible. You know why? You should have prevented this strike, you should have provided material conditions for your project, you know you entered the coalition, you assured us here for education reform, so why didn't you condition a coalition partner like some MPs here did to say you guarantee us the implementation of full curricula reforms and better material status, you didn't do it, not only when you entered the coalition, you knew that the reform went frontal to school, that you would burden teachers, you raised your hand for the 2019 budget. where there were no increased funds for teachers and teachers, then you were in June of '19. You were able to provide better material rights through additions, the second time you did not do so or third, and what you did in the course of the strike when you pretended to be on the side of teachers and teachers at the moment when they needed you most, you said I in these games couldn't participate, you, yes, so you said Mrs. Minister, and then you used your power at the government meeting and chose your way against teachers and teachers for your ministerial chair, you voted for the budget, and then your HNS representatives here supported the same budget, the sapien clock – smart enough, so much for your care and your path and your choice, you chose yourself, and you gave a shower to those you convinced until yesterday that you were on their side. And finally, about the non-transparent spending of money will be an opportunity to speak even here, it is a special story that requires much more time and special attention in the second act and only one thing, so because of you Minister Divjak 6000 children receiving social assistance did not receive money in time for textbooks at the beginning of the school year, because of you children, assistants do not know in the follow-up every year at the beginning of the school year whether they will receive salaries or not, children with difficulties do not know at the beginning of each school year whether they will have an assistant or not have an assistant. You're, we've stopped you here to have your students, students with disabilities kicked out of the dorm room on the street within a month, that's what you wanted to do. Also, you simply lost touch with reality, you undermine institutions, meaning the National Council for Education and Education 3.g. It doesn't work, there's no quorum, there's no appointed members to be appointed to your proposal, and the Education and Education Agency, the key body for the education of teachers and teachers, which you say is very important in this reform, you've held for three months without a board of directors, and eventually the principal left, it's a living disaster. Also, the Ethics Committee on Science and Education doesn't work, you haven't done anything to function, and you're also losing the battle on the introduction of order in higher education. I also want to know why the Higher Education Quality Insurance Act has only been withdrawn for one day, and why do you not stop or stop this circus at Croatian Studies, or why do you act as if you do not have the authority where you have them and where you should stick to the same law and you overstep? And what one of my colleagues would say, I end up, there are ministers who control the ministry, they're the best, they're the worst in control of only the building and there are the worst ones who control their tables. Unfortunately, Minister, you're just a desk in the Ministry of Education.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181859	I thank my colleague, Voter. We have several replicas, first replicas of the exhibition of colleagues Bernardic, the first replica of the respected colleague of Christmas Macar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181860	You have begun your presentation with a statement that this is about shame and I agree with you. Your request for Minister Divjak's recall is a great shame. Why do you keep trying and want to stop education reform? Do you think we should wait another 25 years? Your arguments are really cheap and rickety, anyways, as well as your speech on election night. You often refer here to the conclusions and report of the European Commission, and today you have called. So why didn't you mention that education reform just received three commendations from the European Commission, last in the 2019 report? You've been reading to us for five minutes, so let me tell you a quote. Zoran Milanovic said in "Sunday at 2", "The reform of education is good" and today in one week, your colleague Veran Zupa said "I still have to admit that I don't understand why the SDP launched this initiative after her shift."
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181861	Thank you. Answer, Comrade Bernardic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181862	First of all, this first fellow concerned is not our colleague, second of all, be a little creative. Now you're starting to overwrite Mr. Brcko's thesis. So give it a little bit more creative, don't overwrite it if someone else in the HDZ was cheating. Yes, it's a shame, it's an absolute shame, it's a shame that you've replaced Jokic, it's a shame that you haven't done anything with the reform, it's a shame that children haven't gone to school for over a month, it's a shame that you've given up on a better position and a way of estimating for gifted students, for students with difficulties, it's a shame that you've given up on changing the way of evaluation, it's a shame that you've given up on the state's concept, it's a shame that you've given up on the things that have been adopted unanimously in the Croatian Parliament. And you know what the biggest shame is? It's a shame you betrayed your constituents. That you humiliated them, that you deceived them, and that's how you cheat and now you cheat on the citizens, you cheat on the children, and you take the future of our country, that's a shame.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181863	Thank you. Next replica, dear colleague Ljubica Lukačić, please welcome your colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181864	Comrade Bernardic, you said there were some systemic solutions left for students with difficulties. This government and this minister brought in what you haven't been in four years, and that's a rule on assistants or assistants in class. You know how long we've been waiting for him, and that's the most important systematic solution that helps students with difficulties to attend school neatly. So don't use students with difficulties because it's not nice, it's not nice, and you could add it here even in development because that's how it should be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181865	Thank you, answer, colleague Bernardić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181866	Your Honor, ma'am. Lukacic, yes, it's really embarrassing, it's embarrassing that it really gave up a special program for disabled students. But you know what's even more embarrassing than that? The shame of this government that you haven't been able to for three years for people with disabilities to pass an Inclusive Supplement Act. It's a shame, it's a shame to people who unfortunately have disabilities and I wish you'd helped but you didn't. It's a shame.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181867	Thank you. Next replica, dear colleague Stephen Curaj, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181868	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear colleague Bernardic, I didn't think I'd hear from you or get the impression that you agree with the soon-to-be former president, I hope soon to be the former mayor of Zagreb Milan Bandic, but let's say you're against the future president, so I got the impression from your presentation because they, you quoted them, are what confirms your thesis and your intentions. So one, the other. For Milanovic, I know you're not exactly eyes to eye, but I didn't know this. What I read was that the minister was supposed to go to you, resign, go to the new elections you think you're getting, and then you'd give that raise to teachers and teachers. And that's the problem now because there's someone else who gave it and people get it right away or they get it instead of waiting for six months. something that may never come. And I see it as one of the main reasons of this impeachment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181869	Thank you, answer, colleague Bernardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181870	First of all, no one mentioned the election, you must have not heard or listened carefully, but I mentioned something else. You tell me, it's the second semester, and the second semester begins. How is it possible that children in Vukovar in OS Nikola Andric still don't have textbooks? Here is your coalition partner at the state level, as is possible in the 21st century Croatia at the beginning of the second half that children do not have textbooks? Isn't that embarrassing? So why don't you ask about it? Is this an educational reform?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181871	Thank you. Next replica, dear colleague Bernarda Topolko, please welcome your colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181872	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague Bernardic, you said in your speech that it gave up on disabled children. They are not children with disabilities but with special needs, and if you were a little more in the assembly, at least as many as you were not heard in December when your colleague thanked the government and the school minister for signing a school contract for children with special needs that has been waiting for quite a long time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181873	Thank you. The answer of my colleague Bernardić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181874	First of all, you probably did not follow the changes that took place in this legislation. There are no people with special needs, we all have the same needs, the same desires, the same dreams, the same feeling of happiness. All persons, all persons in accordance with the Constitution, yes and therefore the term of the disabled person is used, ask Mrs Ljubica Lukačić. Do not insult people with disabilities. What special needs, what special needs? That came out of termology a long time ago. It's about people with disabilities. You need to be a little more directional when you go into these discussions.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181875	Thank you. Next replica, respected counterpart Milorad Batinic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181876	Thank you, Vice President. Well, my colleague Bernardic, I'm surprised that you were in the first place discussing this topic in general, I expected that it might be one of your colleagues who's far more directional, who won't have to read literally to say a word. Because the purpose of the curricula reform "The School of Life" is logical, logical thinking and conclusion. I didn't see that in your debate, and your debate is crawling with a series of lies. First of all, here's just to mention one teacher's education, from October 2018 to August 2019, it passed over 32,000 teachers. So when I said that I was surprised that you were supposed to read something or prepare to read it to you, not like this, you're sending a message to those kids to keep raving, to keep scrambling, not to make them think logically, It's even more dangerous, you told them they shouldn't read. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181877	Thank you. Dear colleague Bernardic, here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181878	I don't understand you, Comrade Batinic. What did you actually say? You resent reading some data here. What do you support that children at school don't read? So I think if that's your educational reform in which you want children not to read, in which you don't have to read, in which you don't have to read anything, if that's your educational reform, then your intentions are clear. And that's why this reform doesn't exist. And that is the reason, but fortunately, we are not in the 19th century, but in the 21st century and these things when they fail to punish themselves with voters, among Croatian citizens. Because this is what parents of kids who didn't go to school see. Parents 70,000 children each year who miss a better chance of living, a better chance of living because education reform is not being implemented. And they see it and they blame you for it because you're at the head of that resistor.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181879	Thank you. Now we move on to the replicas to the presentation of the esteemed colleague Sabine Vosovac. First line, dear colleague Peja Grbin. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181880	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Glasovac, the question I'm going to ask you concerns a higher education, two of which. And it refers to the minister's role in two processes currently taking place in the Republic of Croatia. One is the establishment of a medical study in Pula. Is it normal for the minister not to react to the situation where the click around Mr. Kostovic wants to boycott the establishment of the university? The second issue concerns Croatian studies. Is it normal for the minister to accept, tolerate and do nothing about a series of illegalities that occur in Croatian studies such as emergency situations, forced administration, employment problems in these studies, and all under cover of university autonomy? If you ask me, the autonomy of the university is not and cannot mean irresponsibility, especially not the minister of this state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181881	Thank you. Dear colleague of the Voice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181882	In the ministry, the Ministry of Science and Education is obviously normal in the Croatian education system to deprive students of the Faculty of Medicine in Pula even though we have a disabled staff, and on the other hand they are enrolled in the registers of the Faculty of Philosophy, for example, in Croatian studies without the Ministry knowing anything about it. Although the predisposition to enrol in a college register is actually the consent of the ministry or the decision that the founding act is in conformity with the law. And then the minister wonders how they joined the register, and she hasn't made any decision. It's all normal for you, Mr. coat of arms. Not to forget, Minister Divjak welcomed three administrative oversights at the ministry in a drawer from Mr Barisic. One about the interim dean of the Faculty of Philosophy, the other about the change of status of Croatian Studies from the Student Centre to the department and the third about illegal employment at Croatian Studies. She didn't do anything about it. Why? I don't know.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181883	Thank you, colleagues. Next replica, respected counterpart Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181884	Thank you very much. So colleagues complete Kuricular reform should cover all levels of education and offer complete solutions as you have said all groups of students. So, all education from preschool to high school and all groups of students. The "school of Life" on the other hand is like you said the experiment. As a person who survived both as a teacher and as a student of several reforms, I can say from experience, anything that is implemented like this ad hoc, and in order to be spent, will not come to life, will not receive root and will not yield results. So I guess "The School of Life" children don't have a textbook in the second half, get it, get it. Reform, the only reform that exists is a pyr project, nothing else. This government and this minister keep trying to convince us that they put, watch out, on the Golf unit they put a spoiler and they want to sell it to us as a Passat, that people just don't go, it's just makeup, it's just a surface under which there's nothing.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181885	Thank you. Answer, colleague Voter, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181886	I would support any logical intervention in education, and I don't know why it didn't continue through which it was good, for which we have legitimacy, ultimately and HS, and that's a national Croatian policy, a strategy of science and technology education, we don't have any, we don't have any better. Its component was a complete curricula reform, maybe it needed a little more preparation, it wasn't enough to praise someone in one term, but they were dangerous interventions, I understand someone's need to leave a trail, to make something, to leave something behind, but in that desire mistakes can happen that will damage generations of students and we have to bear in mind, the education system isn't any system, it's children, there we need to be special, especially sensitive and therefore I'm sorry that perhaps in some even good intentions at first there have been mistakes that will cost dearly and chaos that many other people will have to solve and clean up for a long time.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181887	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed colleague of Anka Dark-Taritash, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181888	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. Dear fellow Glasovac, you mentioned teachers, teachers, teachers and lumens in your presentation, you know when to go mountaineering, those who hikers have their own booklet and how to win which peaks get stamped. And apparently the minister in the sense of including a teacher to get quality decided that they get badges, so then how does someone get badges, when you're hikers, when you have that book full of stamps, then someone praises you. I suppose there was a theme here too, and a desire to praise someone. There is no reform, there is no project, no matter what we call without cooperation with, in particular, with teachers, with teachers, with teachers, all of them are people, and people who clearly told Minister Divjak what they think of the Lumen and what they think of such a way of education, if that's how they decided to educate teachers and teachers, so they can just decide that for the students.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181889	Thank you. Answer, colleague Voter, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181890	But colleague Mrak-Taritash, the minister had people, so I never, ever remember when in the Republic of Croatia so many teachers, teachers, parents, society, solidarity with some announcement of change in society as in 2015, '16, '17. with curriculative reform, people filled Zagreb and the markets of other Croatian cities to say that we want to, in schools was ruled by enthusiasm, 3.g. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. worked with these people, they believed it, that wave was supposed to ride, that way was supposed to go on, not lead you to the same number of people 3.g. After a strike in that same square, he protestes, detests, angers because you humiliate them, and because you demean them, if it really takes to be a scientist and an expert, to make enemies of friends and to make fans and associates haters and those who don't support you, here's what you really need to know, every honor to the minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181891	Thank you, colleagues. Next replica, respected counterpart Milorad Batinic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181892	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Voter, one suggestion, the second time you write to the president of your party what to say in the Parliament then arm him with accurate data. Secondly, what I would like to emphasise, your argument and your written and now that you're the president of your SDP party strategist, I'm going to express myself with the football jargon, it's questionable whether it's for the yellow card, not for the recall. Furthermore, especially in your debate, you've been dealing with feelings, relations between politicians, political parties, you see, there's a big difference between you and us, we're focusing on content, on the reform that's being implemented, and you're dealing with cheap politics.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181893	Thank you. Answer, dear colleague of the Voice.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181894	Let us then take the arguments that are sufficient for the red card, doubting the setting up of the microbit computer tender to the special adviser of the President of the Republic of Croatia for STEM, of 25 million kuna from the European Funds, the European Commission is asking us to pay the penalty, we citizens of 6.4 million kuna. Revision alerts 2nd. in a row the ministry to violate the Law on Local Servants in a way that pays 9.6% on author's contracts and fees last year and 8.6% on the previous year, only 2% of the total wage allocations in the ministry are allowed. If this isn't, and I'm not talking about non-transparent payment of astronomical prices for methodical manuals, there's still going to be talk about it, if that's not enough for red, then I don't know how your scoreboard works.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181895	Thank you. Next replica, dear colleague Angelko Strick, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181896	Thank you. My colleagues and colleagues, we are witnessing another extremely serious impeachment by one of the ministers or ministers of Prime Minister Plenkovic's government. That's what the statistics tell us, but only 23 SDP deputies were willing to sign this pamphlet. Tonight, only 10 of them are ready to defend that pamphlet, and on Friday, only five of you will come to the vote on that pamphlet. So we're talking, so we're talking about one really serious clock, another attempt to recall one, one of the SDP's ministers or ministers, only 10 of you are here tonight, 10. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181897	Thank you. Please, colleagues and colleagues, do not disturb your colleagues while they are arguing and do not enter their word. Answer, dear colleague of the Voice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181898	Thank you. Our tenth, but we'll discuss all ten. I don't suppose there's gonna be much debate between you, I suppose I know why. But that's why at Friday's vote, we're going to raise our hands even for what we don't believe in and we're silently saying that we disagree. It's called political trade, it's called an interesting coalition, unfortunately it's allowed in politics and that's what we enjoyed here. So I don't understand the point of your replica at all. I don't even understand myself why I answer to your line.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181899	I'd like to thank my fellow voters. Comrade Sasa Djujic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181900	Thank you very much. Fellow Glasovac, you mentioned this famous article directed by the CNS as this marketing venture in which one image is on one side, yes, and I know who the author of it is, but see, therefore, it best paints the work of both the HNS and the Minister and the Resor. So, this article where the picture on one side of the minister on the other three fellow MPs and writing politics, look at this, my little girl in kindergarten, they're putting such images there, and that's the level of work of this minister and the HNS and that marketing venture. Here is a colleague Batinic now talking about politics, so they had one in the ministry to perform now, but see if at least half the energy they invested in the campaign so much that teachers got their rights three, four months ago, to raise their salaries at least half of that effort, maybe today they wouldn't be discussing this at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181901	Thank you. Answer from my colleague, Voter, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181902	Well, I don't even mind being judged as being called a politician by someone in politics, but what bothers me and where I would correct the quote and the part where the minister is shown where the teacher and the scientist writes, and that's where I would write the policy. This may be politics or it doesn't depend on what perspective you're looking at, but the minister is definitely a politician, she can't run away from it because it's the policy that makes decisions, it's the policy that makes fate. She can't pronounce herself a professor and a scientist and vote for budget, vote or not vote. If she hadn't wanted to vote for a budget where there wasn't an increase in teachers' and teachers' salaries, teachers and teachers would have had higher salaries a long time ago. She has power, she's politics. So that they rated us as some of the politicians, that's their full right. But to refuse to recognize themselves to politicians, and to use the benefits and power of politics, is already another problem. And she is a politician.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181903	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed colleague of Stjepan Curaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181904	Thank you, dear Vice President. I'll try to be quick. Dear colleagues. So you're talking all the time about the full reform, and if I get it right, we should still be waiting, we should still be working, we should be delayed, and so on and so on and so we actually get to where we are today, where we're still as citizens waiting, waiting for a lot of things, a lot of things we wonder why. Late tablets, yes, late ten days late, month, two, late ten years. But let's wait even further, it's not enough, we have time as citizens, so let's move on. The question is, did this reform do something wrong, worse, the same or better, in your opinion is better, but it's not good enough. Okay, your right. State graduation, 2011 was April 4, 2013 also in May, the world did not stop. As for the basic school textbook Ivo Andric, they are textbooks for children who attend the minority programme, and in the mandate there were governments and SDPs and a year waited when new textbooks went.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181905	Thank you. Answer, dear colleague of the Voice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181906	First of all, pills aren't reform, if you're on it, it's not imaginary reform. It's an auxiliary means of reforming, waiting no, waiting no. I said you've brought down something that's been reformed to some discount that carries in itself the pillation, the introduction of information, the lumen, and part of the curriculative documents only part. Why am I saying it's not a complete curricula reform? Because it just isn't. It would be complete if you had also taken over the framework of the national curricula and a special approach to curricula for children with disabilities and gifts and a special way of monitoring the evaluation, involving artistic education, involving preschool education, so was the idea of reform. All at all levels equally in stages. But you didn't, as in the supermarket, take what suits you, reject what you don't think you'll be able to implement, estimate it's harder or I don't know what logic you've been going through, it's not reform, it's even less complete curical reform, it's your experiment where rabbits are unfortunately children.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181907	Thank you. Next replica, respected colleague Ljubica Lukačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181908	Thank you very much. Comrade Glasovac, you know very well that the minister is not and cannot be blamed for the problems at the beginning of the school year and related to the assistants in the follow-up. Well, the Minister can't be responsible if some school hasn't delivered the paperwork in time. That's exactly what happened at the beginning of the school year if you forgot, and school records couldn't have been submitted in time because they didn't have it. I don't know if you know that. It would've been good if you'd gone through it a little bit so you'd seen how many kids there were and even during your term of office when this was a pilot project, how many kids were that they didn't even have the right to an assistant in class. Now that the rulebook came in once, it had to be dealt with in some way.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181909	Thank you. Answer, dear colleague of the Voice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181910	My colleague Lukacic, I know, and you know how I appealed here last school year that no payments were paid to the assistants in the teaching class at the beginning of the school year. The next day it's paid. Who made the payment? The Ministry. How isn't the Ministry responsible? Yes, the ministry was late, when we called them here you were a little angry with me, but we did the mission, people were paid. Last year, if we talk about the availability of child assistants, if you mean the minister's decision is hers, the commission has annulled certain decisions by the lower-level committees that determine the appropriate form of schooling and thus denied the assistants to some children. That's not normal. Either cancel the county commissions or level the criteria. How can two expert committees at two levels, one estimate that the child is entitled, and then the minister cancels it. We know very well what we're talking about and that the scissors and the skirt are being held by our minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181911	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed colleague of Ines Strenja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181912	Thank you. Since I've been involved in two recalls and I know what to prepare, I can tell you that you've been very good, clear, and you seem to know this matter well. I'm going to get attached to what you said, and I'm going to read a text. Because apparently they didn't hear those 40,000 people who clearly said, not only talked about the raise, but clearly said that this reform was not well-designed, the way it was implemented was not good and specifically looked back at the non-transparency of spent money. And then I'll read to you, the theme about the resources that individuals have received to participate in the experimental program "The School of Life" is a topic that I really don't have enough information about, says one, and I don't know which one of the experts participates, or how much money and for what they get or get, what I can tell you from my ministerial experience is that the best way to end rumors about alleged payments is 150,000 kuna and more individuals who participate in various activities in "The School of Life" is to publicly announce who is doing all the activities and how much money for each individual activity they receive or will get. I mean, of course, methodical manuals, manuals, that's what my colleague Radovan Fuchs said. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Please comment on that.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181913	My colleagues, I'd like to ask you nicely, be careful on time, please, colleagues. Here's Sabine the Voice.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181914	Yes, I know my colleagues Strenja said that Mr. Fuchs said this, but Mr. Fuchs is not only a former minister, he is now a special adviser to the prime minister for education and coordinator of the expert task force, and the expert task force is the group headed by Jokic, who was the key, roofing for monitoring the guidelines and implementing the entire Kurikular reform. And yes, it was written, and I expect it here to be denied that some selected non-transparent teachers and teachers received one handbook, let's say one teacher 205,175.63 kuna for one handbook. Mr. Ljevak, a longtime publisher, says the market price of the manual, otherwise amounts to between 5 and 20,000 kunas net includes copyright fee, editing, lecture, correction, graphic design, printing, digital support. I don't know what's going on here.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181915	Thank you. Next replica, respected colleague Ivan Lovrinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181916	I have a question for my colleague Bernardic. Before I tell the party, we change Croatia's support for this shift initiative, but I want to say something that I'm very sorry that just for years the SDP has kept with it a single party of HNS which is clientelistic and if it hadn't dragged us home and we wouldn't be discussing this at all. But a specific question from my colleague Bernardic. Do you think a clienteleist party through such a powerful PR can be transformed into an enlightening party under the blessing of Prime Minister Plenkovic? And we know what kind of party it is. Do you think that's possible, which is the meaning of such a strong PR that's being paid out of the budget that it now wants to mean HNS in front of the public to show one of the enlightening this party, and we know that they run the key companies JANAF, HEP, the Ministry of Environmental Protection, so it's a miracle one. So here.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181917	I thank my colleague Lovrinović. Let me remind you, you've replicated your esteemed colleague Sabina the Voice. Here you go, comrades. Voter, answer. Comrade Voter, would you like to respond? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181918	My colleague Lovrinović, I honestly don't think anything, will be told about HNS by all their voters, and the minister has already been told a lot about it on November 25th at Ban J. Jelačić Square, not only by teachers and teachers but also by all those who support them, they are solidarity with them. Not only in order to improve their working conditions, but also in order for the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry to have a better attitude towards the education system and to start more justly deploying social and state-owned wealth, not how it has done so so far. So those who create the future should be more on the list of priorities. That's how I understood between the other and the message from Ban Jelačić Square from November.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181919	Thank you. Appreciation of the government, the respected Croatian Prime Minister, Mr. Andrej Plenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181920	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear ladies and gentlemen, MPs and MPs, as we have also said in our written statement, the government has rejected allegations from the proposal to launch a trust issue with Minister Divjak, noting that there is no basis for a vote of no confidence. When this debate, and from your submission, tries to sum up what it's essentially about, it's about two topics. One is a reform of education, and the other is a matter of strike that we had a few weeks ago, or more than a month and a half ago. As far as education reform is concerned, I would say it is one of those key structural reforms for Croatian society, for all the calls of the Croatian Parliament, and also for the government and for this process we will persist. However, it is a structural reform of the portfolio that has been negligible for many years, and the evaluations we have received in these European Commission reports which these proposings rarely call for are positive on education reform. That's something to say. As for the government's position on strategic enlargement in education, it is unique, regardless of who is of the actors in the parliamentary majority. Why? Because we need to step up and to link our education system to the practical labour market in the future, it is an equation that we need to solve for the benefit of our children, our competitiveness and our positioning in both the Republic and the world. As for the specific data, one that's pretty important at 4pm. The mandate of our Government of the budget of the Ministry of Science and Education has been increased from 13.8 billion to 18.6 billion kuna, if priorities are reflected somewhere, most likely reflected in the separations, this is an increase of 35% of the budget, an unprecedented step in any Government of the Republic of Croatia. School reform, what's the point of this reform? The point of this reform is to make not of this reform a political issue but to seek political consensus, so we can say freely both world-famous and different actors in the parliamentary majority and seek to reach consensus. If there is one element added to the value of this process, then without any dilemma, the adoption of 40 new curriculas, 40 curriculas that have respected and reconciled different approaches and opinions and experts, but also political approaches, is extremely important, this is the important difference between these curriculas and the situation we had in 2016. In the spring, which is the meaning of those parts of education that have an entity character, I have often talked about, it is important that in our students in time, through the education system, the better, the better, the more quality we give the ability to gain knowledge of our history and our culture, our language, our identity, our traditions and our values, and, at the same time, through the education system, to acquire the broad and special knowledge that will be useful to them in life, that is the meaning of this reform and that methodology that is new, which is based on competences for lifelong learning, on increasing and functional literacy and integration of education with the interests and needs and opportunities of students and ultimately, as I said, society and economy. Not to list the many laws that we have passed, from the Law on Education and Education and its amendments, the Law on Professional Education, the Law on crafts which is also connected to 25 vocational schools, the Regional Competence Centres singled out large funds, recently 4 contracts worth 105 million kuna, all these efforts that strengthen our education system. In the term of our government never greater isolation and for Croatian science, it is all very important + an emphasis on STEM areas that are extremely important, but not ignoring social disciplines, that is the framework in which we work. When it comes to the issue of a strike that's been talked about, so let's narrow it down and strip it down to the end. What's finally come to pass? Finally, we came to what we as government unions have proposed immediately, so I am from this assembly submitting a State of the Republic of Croatia report saying that we will continue our consistent salary policy through additions to a basic collective agreement, this government has a third record, which is that we have increased the salary so far by looking at this 2+2 mode for public and state officials, and this applies to them, all agreed and signed, by 18.3%, there is not a single comparative situation that pays to the state and public sector by 18.3% in the mandate of one government. On top of that, 18.3%, according to everyone, the agreement with the trade unions in the area of education we came to the formula that the increase in October of this year will be 23.5%, so someone who had paid x in October 2016 at the end of the term of this government's salary will be 23.5% higher, that is, if you want the joint achievement of both the government and the union, we have to keep an account of it, so there is no reason for dissatisfaction, to protest against the government that increases wages, because this initiative comes from a party that when it was in power did not increase wages, in 2013 it reduced, therefore it's very important that both the public and, of course, members and members of the unions have it in mind, so you have a government that consistently increases your wages relative to the one that reduced, but absurd strike. What's the formula? Where was the dispute? Is the coefficient or addition to the border collective contract? The legal very simple logic that led us in all of this for the security of the other side in the negotiations, and these are trade unions, we have repeatedly argued that the more useful, the better, the more effective that this increase is regulated by a two-sided agreement that binds and the other side and cannot be one-sided, the more we have tried to explain it, and even at the end when we agreed on this psychoses of coefficients, we have brought an increase of coefficients that only, to be very plastic, in the case of some economic crisis, the government as it seemed, the one-sided act changes the coefficients without consulting with social partners, the higher power, we are changing the coefficients, the pay is reduced, so it was unclear all this time to create psychos, protests, coefficients or not, we want to survive or not, is the amount that is important, but we've been able to do so much in the past 67 years that we's the same way that we've been able to get in the past. You've been cutting your salaries here to the professors, and now you've supported the protests twice over the past year like you've fallen from Mars and you don't know anything about it. The public doesn't know, of course, it's poorly transmitted, it's lost in the crowd of forests, it's trying to cover it with funny frames and pussules about strutting or about what, but it's true. The truth remains in the end. Some chronicler like the Little Mystian Bauk would certainly record it, he would record it, he knows that it is, and he knows what this exercise is about and what it's about. Therefore, taking into account that the reform is positive and that things are going better than before, that we have achieved a consensus of different world-wide actors, that we have increased wages, that we have allocated more resources, that we will continue to bring our young future labour market closer to the work market we need to continue the work we are doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181921	Thank you. The debate continues, i.e. the presentation of the testimony of Minister Blaženka Divjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181922	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Honorable representatives and representatives of the Croatian Parliament. The only thing that went too far in this impeachment proposal is the first point, and she says that I was appointed a minister of will and this House two and a half years ago and that my priority was then and now a legislative reform. True, the HNS has opened up a space for not a party team to come to the Ministry of Science and Education, and it has also opened up space for us, as part of the National Plan for Government Reform, to get everything we need to now be proud to say that there is a curricular reform in all schools in the Republic of Croatia. In doing so, we really handled the policy of continuity. We did not say as some before everything that was before us is wrong, but we took what was prepared, we also took into account everything that may have been a semi-product and we know it, but we also continued to improve the whole process and work so that we could now get these excellent reports from the European Commission. And what did we pull? We found a strategy, it's a good background, we found a lot of semi-certain curricular documents and it's a good background, but it's just a bunch of paper if there's not everything else that needs to be reformed, we've found a lot of ideological issues and struggles. And now that we're on integrity, we can look at it differently, but I'm going to say that you haven't even been able to change the law in four years that would allow you to bring curriculative reform to schools. And I will mention that the last amendment to that law was in December 2014 and you did not remember even though the strategy had already been adopted to put the basis into law. So much for integrity. You haven't even put the kunas in the European funds in a project sense, and is it complete, is it? Teachers' education and follow-up should not be spoken of at all because it was not even started. However, we have nevertheless taken into account and so it needs to be a policy of continuity all that has been prepared and continued to work on it. Where are we now? So we have three reports, positive reports from the European Commission. I've heard some of your distinguished members say it's not relevant, and at the same time in that same report, you've been taking what suits you today, and here they must have been confused, the one where your suit didn't get confused, so that's not relevant to you. And that's where our reform is called ambitious and it's done according to plan. I need you to read that. And that's a good reference, and she didn't say excerpts from different newspapers, so she references herself. Similarly, we could refer to parents, 7,500 parents, 90% of all parents of children who participated in the experimental program over 80% of them said I am happy that my child is in the experimental program. Regarding the status of staff in education, wages will rise 25% in three years. Yes, the truth is I raised my hand to the budget and I really worked to not only raise the salaries of teachers and teachers but also other material conditions. And here are, of course, people who have raised their hands to pay teachers and teachers in their term of office, and that should be taken into account. We also introduced for the first time the award of the best, 510 best teachers, teachers, directors last year was rewarded, will be this year. New modern conditions of advancement, official status, administrative discharge. And what needs to be taken into account when you talk about this strike has been a quality compromise, and the strike according to union representatives has actually been the result of a lagging of wages over a long period of years, especially in the period from 2012 to 2014. Therefore, it should be asked who raised his hands to make school working conditions better, to make the salaries better, to make the material status better, and who worked the whole time the opposite, and now, of course, smart in that part. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181923	I'd like to thank the Honorable Minister. We have replicas of the presentation of the Prime Minister of the Republic, the first to appear for the replica is the esteemed colleague Ivan Lovrinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181924	Dear Mr. Plenkovic, I must admit that I am sorry and understand you, so almost every month you have to defend one of the ministers, your initial setup, no more half the ministers, so they resigned, etc., so you see, here it is that in the education system about 70,000 teachers, teachers, teachers, so they haven't been strikein' for a month, so it's not just about pay, you've made a raise, and that's okay, and that's, you've done well. But look, but they're humiliated, it's not, it's not enough either, you see, it bothers them that they're not appreciated, they're no longer safe in the classroom, they're bothered and they see that you've left an important segment of education to a party who doesn't know how to do it, be careful, so you can't turn the client's party into an enlightening party overnight. Why did you let the Prime Minister do this? That's too important. Did they blackmail you? You do that thing, you can't do it because if we miss it, we're the most. We missed the worst for the future. [[/Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181925	I thank my colleague. The Prime Minister's reply, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181926	Thank you very much, Lovrinović, I understand that you may have supported us a little bit, you said it was good that we did something here, and that something is that the salaries are higher in the term of our government for people from education, so your portfolio, your specialty, greater by 23.5%, I think it's not so bad, it's not such a bad pay raise 23.5%, and I'm not talking about any pay increases due to the effects of different waves of tax reforms, maybe it's not so bad, though, maybe it's good. As for the overall status, respect, dignity of teachers, teachers, professors, as far as the government is concerned, it is maximum, maximum with full respect, so we create these higher conditions. As for security, absolutely, the task of Minister Divjak is to do everything possible to eliminate any unpleasant situations that our teachers and teachers may have, and unfortunately there are, unfortunately, there are.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181927	Thank you. Next replica, dear colleague Miro Bulj, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181928	Thank you very much. Dear Prime Minister, you are a man who has visited the world, you are a diplomat, so can you tell me from the Galapagos via China, America, give me a world country where education reform has been successfully implemented by a political party that has 1% and a political party that has deceived voters from a single camp who voted quite the opposite and who have become absolutely not relevant. However, I know that this here has no reform whatsoever, this is a tabletization of the Republic of Croatia. School, and I'm going to ask you a simple question at the end of the year. you and the minister, tell the Croatian public Minister and you prime minister where exactly and on which page the European Commission praises you if I see that a lot of money has been spent by the minister, I will give you, I am not the best with English, but I have asked experts to tell me where it is, so I will give you Well... [[/Intruder: Thank you.]] If you find it, you'll show us and translate. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181929	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed colleague Slaven Dobrović, please. You want to answer? Here's the Prime Minister. ... Thank you, next replica of the esteemed colleague Slaven Dobrović, come in. [[/Speakers speak at the same time, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181930	Dear Prime Minister, science and research is the best engine to start society, develop, generate growth, we all know that, and you have also accepted and practically put it into practice because you appointed a special expert commission in early 2017 to implement the strategy of science and development, and later in the end of the year you took the lead in this commission because you obviously kept it important and that's a good thing. However, after May 2018, when the last thing I managed to hear about the action plan for the implementation of this strategy could no longer be heard, I wonder how this commitment to a strategic approach to this very important sector disappeared?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181931	Thank you. The Prime Minister's reply, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181932	I can now, can do a little bit, here thank you, dear representative Dobrović, I can see that you remember and the work of the special expert commission, remember the 2014 strategy and the Parliament, you also remember the action plan that was agreed by the members of the commission in full, completed, verified and prepared by the ministry. An element that is otherwise problematic throughout the strategy, which will be remembered by those who were in the government at the time, is that we have the narrowest aspect of this strategy adopted by this high home, its financial implications, the financial implications that literally count in billions, in billions, and if there is one weak spot in such a large scale strategy, then it is that element. A similar fate when you look at the financial impact assessment in the technical respect of the Ministry of Finance's corner is exactly the same element, therefore the action plan exists, and the indetermination of costs also prevents it from being formally adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181933	Thank you. Next replica, dear colleague Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181934	Yes, a few actors ago, we asked the Prime Minister why you replaced this minister, why you replaced one at a time, and you were half an hour in the battery, you didn't want to explain why you replaced them, and now you've explained to us why you won't replace Minister Divjak for 10 minutes. If any HDZ member in the government had said that the system is in complete blockade as a result of a game of union and prime minister power, and if he had called his other colleagues immature, he would have flown from the government immediately and perhaps from the HDZ. You've replaced seven ministers, you haven't explained why, you've thrown seven of your members out for writing in whatsapp group, and you haven't replaced the Minister of the CNS because you can't. So it's a game of impotence of yours, you can't replace them because you wouldn't be a government. Therefore, it remains only when we go to our neighboring islands in Vis to write that graph "we change our own, we cannot change others". Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181935	Thank you. The Prime Minister's reply, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181936	I see that President Bauk is all in numbers, that all counts, all counts, and all remembers. What is important at this point, and I am pleased that you, as the SDP, have launched this initiative against a member of the government who is here in the HNS quota. He'll have one good political effect. He'll bring the HNS closer to HDZ. Was that in your interest? So I see that you support this coalition. Oh, right. Well, that's good, that's one effect, and I'm just thinking about how to find some angle to pair this creativity with numbers and slogans, and I see that you clapped that I've found the right measure for you. [[Applause]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181937	Thank you. Next replica, dear colleague Domagoj, here's a colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181938	Mr. Vice President, I'll risk getting a warning, but I can't help it. Mr. Prime Minister, you know how HDZ members begin their day "Dear God from heaven saves us from the CNS". Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181939	I thank my colleague, Bauk. For the sake of correctness, I gave you my word, and now I am giving you the same for the sake of correctness on the basis of Article 239. Next replica, respected counterpart Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181940	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Plenkovic here, my colleague Bulj beat me to it, I would also like you to find us in that report exactly where this reform is so terribly praised. Because as far as I know, you're very good at English and French writing originals, I haven't found any great laude to that reform except that it's ambitious. That's all you say. Now, "The School of Life" you said was a reform, it's not a reform, especially not a structural one. It is an experiment, and as much as you appreciate teachers I think it shows you enough information from a Croatian language teacher who was conducting an experimental "school for Life" in one of the Slavonian counties, one of the three in her county, for 6 months she worked, and you know how much compensation she got for it, 129 kuna and 28 limes. You want to go back to one hundred and twenty-six kunas and twenty-seven limes, and that's why the teachers were on strike. Or that reminds me of some qualifications also given here, since the circuit of the brain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181941	Thank you. The Prime Minister's reply, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181942	So here's because I see neither you nor Representative Bulj were able to find out how the commission looks at progress in the process of education reform, it's in that same famous report you call on that one sentence that speaks about how corruption should be contained locally and in social majority state property. It's the same report, it'd just be good for someone to read it. Because as you did not read it, but other analysts pulled it out for you, and you saw the article in the paper, and then you went into the frames of your conviction, so you didn't read this either. Look at the report, you have a special report on education, and even most importantly, you don't need an interpreter. Representative Bulj also has in Croatian, we are a member, an official language, here is a nice document in Croatian without a problem, and in the review table you stand out exactly how we are on a good track with reforms in the education system. Documented, posted online, all available, enlightening.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181943	Thank you. Next replica, dear colleague Angelko Strick. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181944	Dear Prime Minister in the government's statement you stated that increased investment in school equipment was 438 times compared to 2013, but regardless of these increases, the centres of competence are far more important. Two will be built in the area of Varazdin County. As part of the medical school and as part of the agricultural school in Vinica. Contracts have already been signed, or decisions have been made to finance infrastructure works worth 30 million kuna for each school, and 50 million kuna for software components are still foreseen. This means that according to this one project, 160 million kunas are coming to the area of Varazdin County. I congratulate you on that and thank you for your tour of the municipality of Vinica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181945	Thank you. The Prime Minister's reply, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181946	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Strick, I'm always very happy to go to the Municipality of Vinica and I'm glad that you've praised these investments and centres like the competences that are working right there, maybe it's not as hateful as the vice president of the government, but I know that he's particularly pleased with the head of the municipality, so please welcome him.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181947	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas for a respected minister. First replica, dear colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181948	Thank you very much. I have not yet received an exact answer from any of the experts dealing with this I have not seen that one said that here is the praise of the Minister, can you tell how much your PR costs, and I see that these are articles to praise you, and basically reforms are the pilot, it is a pilot project where you are determined that preparations are under way for some reforms and that is that, ambitious reforms that you have announced. There's no praise, I tell the Prime Minister I'm not the best with foreign languages, you speak five, six languages, but you're forced, so don't defend the minister, you know what she did to you. You defend her, you have to, you have to be gone, you're not on the map, you're not on the map, so you have to protect her politically. You don't have the courage. Where is your heroism? You've been betrayed by Pinocchio for the nose, organized strikes, protests against Pava Barisic, whom you defended, brought from the street as a minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181949	I'd like to thank my colleague Bulj. Answer me, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181950	Thank you. Mr. Representative, although it's hard to answer what you just said at the end, I'm just going to refer to this first part. So, of course, in the review of education and training in the Croatian language for 2019, it is immediately in the main advantages for 2019 that it says that the body is a project of curriculative reform and ambitious preparation for its full implementation as well as reforms of vocational education and training are carried out, this is very important. This is very important, as continues to be a special reference to how much emphasis is placed on the preparation itself. If we compare this to what you and MOST put into your work programme, then it's very interesting because your work programme literally writes, stop, start the process of current curricular reform, so it's the work program you've been working on, so I'm glad you've changed your mind now.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181951	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed colleague of Ines Strenja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181952	Your Honors Minister. What it said, of course, was because it was absolutely unacceptable for the frontal to move into reform because it was necessary to pass that pilot project and start, and then go into frontal preparation as planned. But you can't read that document if you weren't in the government then and you weren't familiar, but the ones you're sitting with. What I'm interested in in is a petition of teachers asking you to stop making anonymous reports. 8.123 teachers listed it and asked to amend the Law on Educational Inspection. Until today, you haven't received them, your assistants, your assistants, your chiefs of staff, but you haven't received them. They deserve to be finally spoken to because there are a lot of anonymous applications. So that's why you humiliated the professors because you're putting them in a situation of guilt, they say they should report, report a name and stand behind it. There are only exceptions when it comes to corruption when it's meant to be anonymous, everything else for the dignity of a teacher's application must go by name and they ask you to. You were supposed to take them to the interview and change the possibility of anonymous applications immediately. This was one of the big remarks during those 40,000 votes that asked for changes and proper access to teachers in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181953	My fellow Strenja, I'd really like you to be careful, you've already gone too far and I've asked you to do it again. But, well, you're a lady, so we won't. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181954	Your Honor, Madam Representative. I really have to admit that I don't understand either now or then I wouldn't understand why someone would agree to be part of a process that stops educational reform. So here we are in the clear. And in whose name and interests it is, we can also talk about it. I can quote to you your representative who, when there was a discussion on textbooks, the Law on textbooks literally copied and read the pamphlet of a large publishing house, so much about interests who defend whose interests. And now, of course, anonymous applications make it clear that we are talking about it, and unions are members of a commission that is working on amending the Law on Educational Inspection.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181955	Thank you. Dear fellow Strenja, please don't enter the word. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here's your colleague, Sladolev.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181956	... So she called the pamphlet a statement from a public debate participant, who herself said when journalists asked her if she was against saying something in a parliamentary debate, she said she doesn't mind. [[Specially enabled.]] So she said it herself and finally So you told a lie. [[Invader Brkić: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181957	I'd like to thank my colleague, Sladolev. You could have used the possibility of replica later in the debate, not misused the institution of damage to the Rules of Procedure, because nowhere in the breach of the Rules of Procedure in the article you call upon is someone telling the lie, or what you called a lie. So, I'm asking you not to use any more of the Rules of Procedure's breach institutes, don't abuse them. We're moving on to the next line, dear colleague Angelko Strick. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181958	Thank you. Minister, you come from Varazdin County and you know that before each county election there are two acquaintances, which is a symbol of the county, coat of arms and flag and who will be the head of education, culture and sport, which is from the 1990s, Miroslav Hudjek. And precisely because of this one continuity, the Varazdin County is by education at the very top. In fact, 94% of students attend one-way classes. 60% of primary schools have organized extended stay. The transport of high school children was launched in 2005, the diet was organised for all students with lower economic status. All students and students are scholarshipd according to social criteria. Energy recovery programmes were launched in 2004, so sometimes it is good to have an initiative on the ground, and this example of the Varazdin County, or the eternal head of Hudjek, is best shown.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181959	Thank you. Answer, Minister Divjak, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181960	I thank you for this incentive for further discussion because the truth is that without a policy of continuity, especially when it comes to important resolutions and important changes, and this certainly changes in education and education reforms, are, without continuity, we can do nothing and now instead of talking about how we will work together to ensure our children, our students, our students a better future, we are actually dealing with petty plantings. And to do the best work by investing in education, which is what you stated on your example, I will only paint that in the state budget of 2015 there were 200 thousand kunas for the whole of Croatia, and in 2019 alone in the state budget 5 million 200 thousand and plus EU funds, which makes up 42 million kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181961	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed colleague of Snow White Sabolek, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181962	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of HS. Ma'am. Minister, I see you're very happy, you have a very broad smile all the time, but good. How do you comment on the fact that the University of Zagreb clearly does not respect the laws of the Republic of Croatia and you as a minister? How is it possible that Croatian studies are enrolled in the court register as a university, and previously from the Ministry of Science and Education did not come up with a solution on the consent of the founding act of the university with the law, and what is the prerequisite for legal registration in the court register? What are you going to do about this, if, of course, you will remain a minister, and given the circumstances that certain criminal acts might be involved in this case? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181963	Thank you. Answer, Minister Divjak, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181964	Thank you for asking. As with all these cases we have considered so far, I insist that we respect the autonomy of the university on one hand, it is guaranteed by the Constitution, however, with responsibility and respect for the law. So even in this case, I asked and we complained through the County State's Attorney's Office, about that enrolment, and I will ask, of course, that the whole procedure is implemented in accordance with the law, as well as in all previous cases. Here, of course, I also count on the University of Zagreb, especially on the Senate and the Rector, to really adhere to the law and respect the procedure. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181965	Thank you. The next replica, dear colleague Josko Klisovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181966	Thank you, Vice President. Your Honor, ma'am. Minister. You have taken over the most important resort for the future of Croatia and I believe you have taken over it in good faith. But you didn't get in good faith the government's support for your work, especially the prime minister, and the HNS sent you into that battle probably with a fig in your pocket, more thinking it was good to participate in the government, to have public companies than to give you full support in your work. But here, under quotes on the defendant's bench for a strike. You've beautifully described your position that you can't do anything in this battle of power between the prime minister and the union, clearly alluding to who's responsible for this whole situation. But my question to you is why have you endured such a situation for so long. Why did you not make it more clear who is obstructing your work in the government and thus gain further sympathy and opposition and Croatian citizens. It is clear to us where the responsibility lies, primarily responsibility for all these failures that we make here lie upon the Prime Minister, who has not given you full support in your work.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181967	Thank you. Answer, Minister Divyak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181968	Here, thank you very much. I'm not here to get someone's sympathy after all. I'm only here because we need to implement these necessary reforms both in education and in science. And no matter what you're talking about the HNS, the HNS has actually opened up the space for these reforms to be implemented, and the government has actually made it possible through investment that these reforms are going on because without these 4 billion kunas, when we're talking together and about the curriculative reform of general education and vocational education, none of this would be possible, nor the education of teachers, nor the school equipment, nor the 100 million kunas that we invested only last year in the equipment of cabinets. As much as it was invested in the period 2012-2015, you probably know that number, that number is 0.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181969	Thank you. Next replica, dear colleague of Anka Dark-Taritash, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181970	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of HS, the Honored Minister Divjak. So, those who want, I'd say, a lot of mean talk about something called the School of Life, then say that the School of Life has turned into pills and lumens. The peak strike of teachers or teachers and teachers was on November 25th on Jelačić's salary and the biggest applause was given there by a teacher who said "below the Lumen". There were, of course, plenty of citizens who were always interested in it. I'm interested in how do you appreciate that teachers really gave the greatest applause to the fact that it's not good, and how did you feel as a minister then? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181971	Thank you. Answer, Minister Divjak, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181972	Thank you for asking. Although I'd expect you to know a little better about it and about education. The education for teachers and teachers lasted a full year before the introduction of a frontal implementation of curricular reform. In addition to the fact that 40,000 teachers, teachers, and co-workers participated in virtual education, virtual classrooms, we still had five groups of live educations. Only one of them, which took place a year ago, in January and February, had 1,000 workshops throughout Croatia, involving nearly 30,000 teachers and so four times, which should be informed. And if you think that today, time IV. Industrial revolutions need to avoid virtual classrooms and gathering means, then I'm afraid you need to learn a little more about that too.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181973	Thank you. Next replica, dear colleague Arsen Bauk, here's your colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181974	Thank you. Ma'am. Minister, since your party, or party who proposed you to the government, has given an ad where you are designated as a scientist and not as a politician, then I will present myself in this debate as a mathematician from Brač, not a politician. And my question in this sense is that you try to answer us who won the game of prime minister and union power? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181975	Thank you. Answer, Minister Divjak, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181976	Well, I think the simple answer is, teachers, teachers and school employees won because the increase in their salaries is over by 1/4, almost 1/4. That much pay raise wasn't there, I don't remember when and I've been in education since the '90s, so I work as a teacher first in high school and then in college since the '90s. I don't remember it ever coming from that, I think it's clear who won. ... And do I have to answer when he throws me like this or...? [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] I think at the moment you look at who's lost, 31 is a signer on this recall paper, look how many of you are here, it's immediately clear who's lost. [[/Intruding Brkić: No, no, you go ahead.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181977	Thank you. The next replica, dear colleague Sasa Djujic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181978	Dear Minister, you often mention 2012 today, 2015, almost every one of your address, and in your opening presentation, you said that people should know who then raised hands to cut wages and who did nothing. I'll tell you, colleague Batinić, Mr. Ivan Vrdoljak in the Government, as vice-president of the government, Mr. Štromar as mayor gave support and vice president of the HNS, and your special advisor can explain it to you, it was then done in the SDP, you know, he knows exactly who raised your hand and why he raised his hand, because he was at our place on the payroll, now he's at your salary and let him advise you. And I'm interested in you for one concrete answer, not as scientists and professors, but as politicians, because that's what you are. Whether or not you consider yourself responsible as a minister for what your portfolio was in a three-month blockade. and what you said during the half of the strike process "I will no longer play with you, I will not participate in the power of union and prime minister" because when you had that extraordinary press, I, as the entire Croatian public, expected that you would resign as a minister, then you would be a scientist and a teacher and not an ordinary politician who cares only for your chair. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181979	Comrade Djujic, I would ask you nicely Here's your answer, Minister. [[Invadica Djujic: Excuse me Vice President for overstepping.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181980	Thank you. This is a very interesting analysis, but speaking of a quote, I will now quote to you another minister at the time of the government during this period that you mentioned. This is the Minister of the Mariner who said this: "The problem is that something else needs to be thrown out in information and that is always the problem. Besides, there aren't enough IT teachers, which means they should be educated and hired, and that didn't happen. We talked about it for 25 years, and that didn't happen. We've done it without a lot of problems, and despite all the criticism we've been getting, we introduced two years ago, no problem. And today when you look at the report on the state of digital competences for lifelong education in Croatia, then you see we are there on the 13th but what we do in education but what we do in education, that is what we are at the very European summit."
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181981	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, dear colleague Sabina Vosovac, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181982	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, I didn't mean to answer, but here are some claims that I simply have to reject or deny. Not so much for themselves, but for 130 experts working on the Education, Science and Technology Strategy, including Minister Divjak and about 500 teachers and teachers working on curriculative documents. Let's do it in a row. In your presentation, as well as in the government’s indication that you have probably participated in the creation, you claim that you have inherited a semi-certain pile of curriculative documents and that in the implementation of the teaching reform processes, you are guided by the principle of continuity on the basis that development is based on the adopted strategy and that all prepared materials and curricula are taken into account, to introduce improvement on the basis of public expert advice, etc., etc. In doing so, it is important to ensure for each reform that an analytical basis is provided for concrete professional directions and a financial legislative prerequisite for the implementation of the reform and you claim that this has not been ensured. I have to defuse you in that. It is a shameless lie that there were no analytical bases for concrete structural developmental directions, they are still present on a cloud of complete Kuricular reforms to which officials of the Ministry of Science and Education can join. On the basis of precisely these analytical documents, 62, 62 working groups have produced their own curricular documents. Some of these people were then, and today they are your closest associates, specifically Lydia King, Vlado Spray, Helena Valencic. What you're saying is that no proposals for curriculative documents have been completed, it's a disgrace to those people who have been working on them and a shameless lie. Not only have the documents been completed, but they have been discussed professionally and publicly, so we have conducted two levels of debate, both professional and public, within which it is responsible for all comments. As early as 2016, a professional and public debate was held on the framework of the national curricula, all of which are still available on the website. Speaking of which, there is no such thing as today, the following documents have not been adopted. From the framework national curricula, the national curricula of early and preschool education, curricula for primary education, gymnasium, art, etc., etc. The only national curricula you have adopted is a national curricula for vocational education, and its actual adoption indicates that there was no reason, no obstacle, no legal or otherwise to adopt all others. So this lie no longer please place you for the people who have worked with you on the strategy you have deviated from, and then for you people who have worked hard on curriculative documents for years. We move on, you say like two thousand, and when you came here, it was neither the law nor the means, nor the money, nor anything. So I ask you to address Mr. Tihomir Oreshkovic, so you came in '17, before that, you were two ministers so Barisic and Schuster, I'm sorry that they didn't do anything and for the past two years and where we stopped. So we at the stage where we were in 2014, we made curriculative documents, we conducted expert and public debates, we made a law in 2014 so that teachers and teachers could work on the Kuricular reform. We have done operational programmes for, we have entered the EU, operational programmes for perspective by 2020. It's just that if there hadn't been this pawnage and these operational programs, we wouldn't have been able to use certain resources today, okay, something had to be done at further stages, but it's simply not true that nothing was done. When we were planning and budgeting and doing some kind of call action plan, we made sure that what we didn't have money for in the budget would be covered by funds. We have approached this truly consciously and responsibly, and there is no Minister Barisic here, and there is no Shuster to answer you why they are all where we have not continued, but you cannot say that you have started something. No, you're not. They've been launched by policy experts who've opened up space. It stopped shamelessly for two years, then you came, you decided, again I will say as in the shopping center part of it take, part to reject, enter something of your own, but please be there ultimately, extremely honest and not to lie.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181983	Thank you. We have replicas. Dear colleague Sasa Djujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181984	My colleague Glasovac, here is the minister not answering questions, but is skillfully avoiding answers and thus turning into other things that no man has asked her at all, and thus essentially showing that she is not a scientist and a teacher but is a politician. In fact, she's a politician because here's the thing, I just asked some concrete questions, and she was telling me this whole fifth thing. But I'm happy with that because you can see that the minister doesn't feel responsible for the collapse in her three-month system then she'd say here that I don't feel responsible, and I wouldn't be quoted by the sailor and that sort of thing. I see that Mr. Stromar taught her well, yes, for these political games, and that you can easily become a good member of the CNS. So, that's the point, it doesn't fit and sells petty politics. Here, again, I'm ordering her from here to ask her colleagues who were sitting in the former SDP government of Vrdoljak and her colleague Batinić. Why did they cut wages, and why did the wages fall the most back then? [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Some give them, answer those eternal questions.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181985	Answer from my colleague, Voter, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181986	Well, fellow Djujic, I may not have called Mrs. Minister a politician, but that she invests a lot in public relations and in creating a better picture of what it is, and about what she missed out on, she certainly does. What's actually unimaginable to me is that we've never seen in any ministry or that, let's just say, one of the contributions of a television show published on your facebook official page as ministers, but to cut out those parts in this article where the critical tones of your project are. I've never seen that, we've experienced it on her facebook official page. That on Sunday at 2:00, journalists, professors, members of the union who dare to object to reform are calling the ignorant, telling them that they don't understand anything, that they can't read, I haven't seen it yet. I've seen it said in our assembly that we don't understand it, you haven't read it well, but that people who are living in reform who know how to judge things are saying that I haven't experienced it yet.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181987	Thank you. Next replica, dear colleague Marko Sladolev, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181988	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, so I will present my criticism to the Minister's work in my debate on behalf of the club. However, here I think is the main criticism that she was, in fact, the whole time she was seceding from the main reformers, which is teachers and teachers. So, I don't know if she has a single person present in the facebook teachers' groups.I don't know if she knows what's written about this reform, but at present the poll in one group of school halls is 10 000 professors and the survey is short for you, the work of a minister with an insufficient grade would therefore evaluate 404 teachers with 2.90, with three 9, with four 3 and excellent numbers and letters literally two teachers rated.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181989	Thank you. Answer, dear colleague of the Voices, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181990	It is well known to me that this dear colleague that truly teachers and teachers do not look favorably at such interventions over the knee in the system itself, but you must know that there is also a part of them that has profited very well through this reform, those who have written methodical manuals, they have been paid by 3 lines, triple lines, they have earned 200,000,00 kn, while their teachers and teachers who have lived and spent in classes could have been paid from 500 to 2000,00 kn overtime depending on the school's decision, it is a relationship, some have raised 200,000,00 kn to one methodical manual, and those who need to implement the reform from 500 to 2000,00 kn per month, and then the same ones that wrote methodical manuals are still rewarded, these, you know these awards that they received for the best professors, the good part of them, and they did not get through the school, because they didn't get through the most of the school, which they did it, but they did the school. What is it, but corruption? [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] someone to praise the project in schools to promote. [[/Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181991	My colleague, I'd like you to keep an eye out for me on time. The next replica of the esteemed colleague of Anka Dark-Taritash, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181992	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. Dear colleagues, you've prepared yourself perfectly for this reason, of course, as you've told them here, you live it. We've had our chance to hear things in this House, and there's absolutely one boast at the Prime Minister, going to everyone else, going to the ministers, and then it's never surprising for the Minister to come to the Parliament of Casualty and behaving arrogantly. But what's my question, maybe you remember if I don't remember, I still have many years from you, this is already one in a series where the Minister's recall is sought, but I've never had a chance to see that from the ruling party or the HDZ at this point in the assembly letter and number of two people, the chairman because he's been given the task of presidencies as he has always in the late evening and distinguished representative Irena Petrievcanin Vuksanovic who is there is going to speak on behalf of the club, which is about the support of the HDZ minister. [[/Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181993	Thank you. Answer, colleague Voter, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181994	Well, there's probably a reason, I don't want to go into reasons, but it's probably one reason and this late hour, but there are also people in all parties who understand the system of this education, and even if they don't understand it then they're connected to the people who live and listen to these people and they can bring certain courts and probably in some things that they can't defend, and they should defend as an opposition, they can't, or they don't want to, for this reason or for that reason. I'm sorry that there's a chance here, we've been discussing a number of ministers here, in principle they've had a vote of confidence, so after 6-7 months we'd still be flying for this or that reason, we wouldn't be ministers anymore, this isn't probably the worst minister we've ever had, it's not the best, but I'm sorry it's missed time, I'm personally sorry that we've put a lot of hope into it, she's been working on an education strategy, she understands the system, something more likely science and more than this smaller, I'm sorry that she's been missed. A chance. [[/Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181995	I'm setting a break by 11:30. [[It's 11:00 P.M.]] [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 23.31 HOURS]] Dear colleagues and colleagues, we continue the debate, I open the debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns and the independent list of Željko Glasnović and Mr. Zlatko Hasanbegović, the esteemed colleague of Hrvoje Zekanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181997	Dear Vice President, the Honorable Minister with an associate, it took three hours, three and a half hours for the first club to come in, but that's good, so it's an interesting point. So I would first, although this assembly is almost empty, but maybe someone is watching, I know that someone is watching on TV, telling Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic that this is an ideal situation actually. Why is it ideal for him? He could do the following now, agree in his Croatian-Serbian trade coalition, for example. With a colleague, Pupovac, a colleague or gang member from Bandic's club, if they simply didn't support you, it would be very wise for him, and what's going on? The government goes down, and then he's on the wave, angry like that if, on Pupovac and Bandic, he goes to new elections, and then he doesn't really have to have internal elections, and he can sneak it out in a way that there aren't all those who, who already criticized him in public space, and he's actually in one wine position. Let's wait Friday, maybe he's taking my advice, maybe he's hearing this somewhere, maybe someone's passing it on to him, and maybe he's planning this, maybe this is Friday, and it might actually happen, maybe here's the example. I will repeat in this Croatian-Serbian trade coalition a few of them say not to Minister Divjak, but then. But here I have to look a little bit at my colleague Glasovac who was here, she will correct me, the assistant minister at the time of Minister Jovanovic and who, together with Jokic, has actually initiated the reform of the curicula, she will say the curicula, will say the minister of curicula, that is one problem that I failed to solve, perhaps some new Prime Minister and some new minister will solve, I hope she will, to finally use Croatian words, so it's interesting that 2016. 1st June the SDPs together with the HNS's demonstrated in the Trg of Ban Josip Jelačić for the reform of curricula, is so co-worker, together and it was that great one set of monumental although no one had any idea why they had demonstrated there, when they asked people, there were on TV, 30 people no one had any idea what they had come for, some were waiting for the tram, but it was actually very funny to listen to those people who were at the invitation of the then HNS and SDP came to demonstrate and now the same colleague of the Voice and the Bauk team and all the others were suddenly the great critics of Jokic's curricula because this was just a continuation of it, here the minister I defend you, is the one that's a little problem with the ZP, so I hear you, so here I's the SDP was fighting for the curical, and all the same curricula, and that the same curula continues the Minister is just as the same bad, and now the minister is the one that the one that the one that the problem that the minister is the first one that the minister, the first one that's and the problem is the first thing that the first thing that's, the problem, and the problem is true, the problem with the problem, the problem, the problem with the rest, the rest, the rest, the problem with the problem, the rest, the rest, the rest, the problem, the problem, the problem with the HP. Let's not forget that Mr. Plenkovic, that he got rid of everyone who had, I'll say conservatively or rightly oriented in that ministry, here I'll just mention Mr. Glancic, for example, he's gone, well, he's past, perfect, here's the minister's idea, probably a little bit separated in bad relationships, but it doesn't matter, mostly Glančić doesn't have, although Plenkovic has sworn in him, but more, he's gone, he doesn't exist. I'd mention one thing here that's mentioned today, but it's not a very good point for Mr Bernardic, and I've already said it, and I'm going to say it, and I'm really glad that the minister is here, and I'm sorry that the Prime Minister left the assembly, so 6,447,294,69 kn, do you know the amount? Now, here's an advisor, here's a pleasure, here's Mr. Alavanja, I'm interested in information that you've been in the SDP or working for the SDP, it's, it's cool, it's a familiar minister's amount, it's not, I'll tell you, it's about the money that you're guilty of, because it has to be compensated from the Croatian budget, so you're the team that you've staffed up are guilty of 6,447,294.69 kn and nobody, but this is me thinking about one commission to investigate who's guilty of 6.5 million kuna from the state budget that we all taxpayers have to pay and it's one big problem and don't ignore it, it't it's a very big problem, it's interesting how the media still aren't, and there't even the SDP that has some contacts with the media that we can't get into this topic, here, here a little fellow vote to try to make this very big problem. And I won't talk for long, I'll just have one more topic, don't mind ministers, nothing personal, but since you're a minister I have to say this, so it came to me one document, it's a tax solution, so where is the Ministry of Finance, the Tax Administration of the District Office of Zagreb, blah, blah, blah, tax payer of the University of Zagreb, then it was the Market Marshal Tito 14, it was determined the obligation of tax and other public taxes for the period of taxation, and then it says on page 23, with the insight into accounting and business documentation during the supervision that the tax payer paid a fee to the employees of Divjak Blaženka's staff to prepare research into the needs of students for students' studies, so it says a little bit more, the Divjak Blaženki paid the copyright fee of 5,652,50 kuna to prepare for researching the students's needs of the project-based on the development of the projecting and the wrongs of the projects. Divjak Blaženka has been employed as a promoter for students and studies, her businesses are concerned about the affairs of the Central University Office for Studies and Students, according to the interpretation of the State Institute for Intellectual Property, project implementation activities are not authorial works and jobs are professions. In other words, you're paid 5,652 kuna, and you shouldn't have been because it's already been paid. Furthermore, Minister Štromar don't be angry, not all of this, then in 2013, it was the same thing, this time it's done, here to see just to find the amount so I don't make a mistake, 13,755,56 kuna is also paid to Minister Divjak. So, according to the author's contracts, money was paid for what she had already been paid for. And we're talking about a school for life. What can we talk about? Since the minister who takes money twice from the state, twice, Minister, this isn't funny, I know that you often throw that smile, you have really nice teeth, here you will have to recommend a dentist, so this isn't funny, it's not funny, so you're twice paid for the same job. And those 6.5 million kunas aren't the same, they're the mistakes he made in life, and they're fatal and that's bad. And it's bad for the minister to do this, very bad minister, very bad. Keep a little more smile, let's see. So, Ministers 5,500 kuna and 13,000 kuna you are double paid, that is money taken from Croatian taxpayers. I wonder if you've returned that money. Here is the question the Croatian public requires. Did you pay that money back because the IRS said it loud and clear? So 18, 19,000 kuna, here's the question I'm referring to you. And the same thing with those 6.5 million kunas. And I'm going to tell you one more thing, you know that I've been your critic here a lot of times, so I'm going to be today, so I asked you once that I find it funny to pay for commercials on the radio and TV for "The School of Life" as you call it, and it's a funny minister. As a result, Minister Pavic nearly got wind when it was reported that he was paying ads against a referendum on reform of the pension system. You also one reform, I don't know it's out of your mind, that the state spends or that you spend millions of kunas, millions of kunas and eu money a colleague is our money we paid the EU that money ultimately. This money did not come to the EU in the spirit of the world, it is not a flaw that falls from the sky, it is the money that we have invested in the European budget, so again our money. Ask Prime Minister or Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic if we are a full member of the EU, is that our money, is our money. So it's funny to pay for commercials and promote any law, any reform, or even curricula. And I'm going to end this debate of mys, and I know that it bothers you, and that you have failed to learn it, is not a curricula but a curricula, and whatever it is that I personally don't have anything against you, and I'm glad that this was your first and last term as a minister, and I'm glad that your party almost doesn't exist anymore, and I'm very interested in who our Prime Minister is, if it isn't early elections, or if they don't make Friday a coalition.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181998	Thank you. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, a respected colleague of Batinic's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u181999	Thank you, Vice President. A colleague, Zekanovic, injured Article 238 in his debate. Rules of Procedure, he went ad-hominem to the minister mentioning her appearance and what she should do about her appearance. I think it's certainly inappropriate and I suggest, of course, your judgment, I think it's for a warning, to remind him of the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u182000	Thank you, dear fellow Batinic. One part of you're right, but if we were to appreciate everyone's argument that way, then we could just make warnings, so I don't think the Rules of Procedure was hurt. Here's my colleague Zekanovic, the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u182001	In 238, therefore, I commended Minister Divjak's appearance, and I did not criticise her. So if I offended her, I apologized, but I commended her, I didn't say she looked bad but had a nice smile and really had a nice smile.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u182002	Comrade Zekanovic, you've replicated your colleagues, Batinić, so please don't abuse the future Institute of Infringement of the Rules of Procedure. We're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, respected colleague Irena Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u182003	Dear Vice-President, honourable minister, honourable Deputy Prime Minister, colleagues and fellow few in this House. The HDZ Club, as well as the Government, has previously rejected allegations from opposition representatives' submissions, responsibility for the strike, as well as objections to the reform of the education system. As I listened to my colleague, the Voter, it seemed to me that there were subjective impressions of the launch of this opposition proposal. It seemed to me, that it was my subjective impression now, that this was about some broken relations between my colleague Glasovac and the minister, who at first promised to be idyllic or promising co-operation, and then she fell behind, and it seems to me that this whole debate is now about it. If I'm wrong, you correct me, but based on your debates that I've listened to carefully, I think I'm right. When I read these materials, my first thought was that I could talk about this wheel from several different but very authentic positions. For example, I have recently been in charge of the Committee on Science, Education and Culture, and from that position I am now talking about this point. So, with the sequence of that function. The topics related to the education and education systems can also be discussed from the position of parents of two students, children of school age. The problem of the education system, i.e. the scientific system, can also be discussed from the perspective of the university professor. And finally, also, on this subject, so the problems of the education system can speak as a parliamentary representative because this is a political speaker and it would actually be the simplest speech for the simplest reason. He does not need evidence and often enough is enough what we see and what we have seen before and what we will see in the future, little raise the voice, add a rhetorical figure, push the opposite side, throw away what is said, bone, and here are recipes that are usually called a dynamic parliamentary debate. It's really the easiest thing to do, and that's why I'm not going that way as my predecessors. In this proposal of opposition MPs at the expense of the Government and a member of the Government, or a resolution minister, several objections and a taste of these remarks were put in place, in fact, when we carefully read and examine all materials and analyze them, these remarks should be addressed to some previous Governments or to some previous Government. Why? For a number of reasons. You should consider a few facts. First, dissatisfaction, so, for example, I'm now on strike notice. The dissatisfaction and feeling of the injustice that the workers of the education system rightly felt, or felt, that they had culminated in the strike, had not since yesterday and had gathered for many years. Second, after the Government has made improvements to the working, material and legal status of workers in the education and education system, except for the pay that is immediately visible and that is clear, the other parts of these improvements are not visible or are not immediately valued. Of course, let's be objective because it's the only way to speak properly. There is something that needs to be changed in the system of education and education and science, and there is a lot of it and there is no need to argue and I have no intention of disputing it. Again, objectively speaking, it is necessary to say that this Government and the Resort Ministry, coloquial and metaphorically speaking, stepped into it and began to clean up the accumulated problems and we saw many problems, until yesterday and a troubled system of salaries, unfairly lagging behind of workers in the education system, and also a neglected system of teachers. But you're going to let me say, for me personally from all these perspectives that I've previously listed, the biggest challenge of starting reforms, these, but also each of these, must be the most banal and simplest words, improving students' knowledge and skills, in order to be more competitive on the labour market and in order to be employed, be self-employed, if they are schooled for such a kind of occupation, whether or not they finish college that it's not a hyperproduction of these interests, but that the scientific system is also consistent with the labour market. Also, the aim of the reform should be science and research without the weight of hyperburocracy and administration. As long as this government and the resolution ministry have succeeded on that path, time will show. And why do I say time will tell? For the simple reason, research and this recent research say that the results of any reform, including educational, according to expert literature are not immediately visible and experienced by those concerned, are also not immediately. So, it takes a minimum of 4 years to go to a maximum of 10 years, which will say that success or failure, excuse me, is already near midnight, and I am very tired, our students at international knowledge tests or national graduation is a reflection of stagnation for a number of years, and objectively speaking, it is not due to this government, but it is precisely these, not so good results that it is necessary to go to education system reforms and, for example, in 2024, it will be necessary to carry out an analysis and evaluation of this reform, or the effect of this reform now carried out by this government, and then it will be possible to answer properly without the use of the hate speech that I unfortunately felt here in the assembly, along with the apology of those MPs who did not use it. What is important is to say that the opposition minister gave unanimous support. A colleague from the SDP says they have become haters from friends and supporters. I wrote down what you said. This means that the reasons are of some deeper nature, and maybe that's why this opposition proposal has taken place, I really can't get in, but honestly I don't know the chronology of these relationships and the real reasons, but I feel a lot of subjectivity in this whole thing about the objections to the strikes you've put on. So that's what the prime minister said before and the minister. Well, the strike was mostly aimed at dissatisfaction with salaries in the education system and therefore there was a compromise of the government and we know that in the next 12 months there will be a growth of 6.12% and a growth of the coefficients for the complexity of jobs or supplements by 6.11%). But it is not irrelevant here to mention that everything is correct that, during and after the strike, the government did not reach for any repressive measures to stop the strike, and for example, it could not pay for days or initiate a procedure to determine the illegality of the strike. Also, the Ministry of Science and Education's budget has increased by 35%. That's a fact. It is also important for teachers to return to the status that they had in the past in society, and this is one of the goals of the government to return through various measures the reputation of the team, but not only the reputation but also the positive perception of this human and important calling that they actually deserve. The teachers also complained to this government or the resolution ministry about the amount of administration they had to deal with, resulting in an amendment to the 5 regulations so that I do not now list them. The Law on Education and Education was amended in 2014 following the adoption of a strategy for science and technology education. That's a fact. In these changes, for some reason, this implementation of these implementing mechanisms was lagging behind, and we heard that. It was not until 2018 that the amendments provided a basis for this. And now metaphorically speaking for all those who are not in the metrics. Are you going on a trip without buying a ticket or providing or booking accommodation or providing money for that trip? So you will answer or anyone normal will say so you are not going on such a journey otherwise it is a sacred journey. And actually reforming the education system, which is more than a journey to an imaginary but unknown destination and without complete certainty how this journey will then end. Important processes do not go without strategy and therefore more because the results are only seen later. As I said, an increase in wages is seen immediately, but the knowledge of a generation is not seen in one month as an increase in wages, not even by one year, but only after one educational cycle. What's he gonna say, for example? 5 or 10 years ago if some financial or strategic or legislative basis for reform of the education system has not been provided, let's face it, let's say, we have consequences. And let's also be realistic, so let's say that the results of the now-started reform will be visible in a few years as I have previously pointed out that there would be no wrong interpretations. For example, questions arise as to why Croatian students need to learn more from home or to take instructions on the condition that parents have money to pay for these instructions, why do we have a worse outcome than some other European countries at the national prom or in some international tests? Well, one of the answers should also be covered by this reform and covered, with us the primary school system averages 473 hours a year, while in the EU the average is 748 hours a year and, of course, their students achieve better results. And a lot of research shows what? That the number of mandatory hours at school directly affects student performance. In the review of the system, I must repeat, that the government went first to improve the system of education and education, the material legal status of teachers, and above all students. At this point, this process is not complete and cannot be evaluated, as I have already said many times, but there are facts. One of the facts is the teacher's salary growth. The second of the facts is the possibility of rewarding, the third is to ensure an appropriate environment i.e. better material conditions and fourth last but most importantly, ensuring the status of an official for teachers which improves their safety at work and which is a preventive tool. When we talk about students, for example, about the vocational education of students, the mission and the goal should be just one. Connect vocational education with the labour market and that's it. To make it easier for young people to ensure their existence, to work and work on their own, and the same is true of higher education. If I'm speaking from the parent's position, then I'll say that no matter who's in power, and who's in opposition, I don't like someone calculating with someone over kids and getting public attention. I don't think that team, that kind of calculation brings anything good and anything useful. And with regard to students, we can suggest the possibility for students of high school to be asked, for example, and that they say what burdens them most in the classroom. If we ever achieve that in the near future, children don't have to be five collectors without being able to show their creativity, then in my humble opinion, we're going in the right direction. Why would I think that? I'm not going to name any states, but some countries that are high-listed in international tests, and what we're trying to do, imagine in elementary school almost having no homework, don't have grades for those 8 or 9-year-olds because they actually need to be played out and not burdened with grades. And even when they're 16 they write their first tests when they're serious and they're mature and they start one more serious phase of life, and then 2/3 of them go to college. Which is the largest percentage in the world, and after college they find a job, and their teachers have a slightly higher salary than average. In my humble view, this is an ideal reform, let me say that this constructive approach of the government is constructive, shows all these facts and in this sense the government is aware of the constructive steps it has taken for employees and the system of education, this opposition proposal is assessed negatively, and the HDZ Club is also being negatively reflected on this proposal and I am taking into account 4 positive reports from the EU Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u182004	Thank you. We move on to the next debate, and the name of the Representatives' Club of the Independent Lists Bridge, respected colleague Marko Sladolev.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u182005	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So, first thing I want to point out is that I find it embarrassing that this debate takes place in the late hours of the night. Professors and teachers are watching us, if there's going to be a malfunctioning test tomorrow, here's an excuse. So what we're going to say today is I don't think it's a criticism, and so we're going to set up our own discussion as a person, as a woman, as a teacher and as scientists, as your party wants to impute you, so this is a criticism of your work as a minister, not as scientists. So we won't speak in any word about you as scientists and as a teacher. Milan Kujundzic may be good and probably a good doctor, but as a minister, he is not. Davor Shuker is certainly a great football player, but as president of the Croatian Football Federation, a great questionnaire. So, since you consider each of our criticisms of your reform to be an attack on yourself as a person, I think I should have brought this up at first. The bridge of independent lists was the first to ask for your resignation, we were evil prophets, first because of the delay in obtaining textbooks, later there were irregularities in the public procurement of textbooks for the School of Life, there we lost 6 million and 400 thousand kuna. That's what we were talking about. The EU has decided not to refund part of the amount spent on those items. After that, she's a lady. Lydia King resigned, and we don't know if that's why, and you've made very little mention of that fact and that one of the main persons in your ministry actually resigned. I, therefore, used the Facebook group School Hall and should say that without these groups, it would be very difficult for me to know what is currently going on in the chambers, and when about a year and a half ago, a meeting of the School Hall was called, then me and my colleague Sonja Cikotic showed up there because they got a call from politicians to show up there, we were the only parliamentary representatives who showed up and there we were writing down the questions that they were asking in their debate and then we asked you these questions as representatives. One of those questions was Campus Borongaj. So, you Minister, you know that I asked you this question and what I can say is that you are one of the few ministers who answers the question, and one of those questions was what was with one of the biggest investments in education, campus in Borongaj, and your answer was, therefore, that you are not dealing with it, so you have actually admitted, therefore in your answer that nothing of that. The protest over the teacher's material rights has at the same time turned into a protest against your reform. She failed, so the teachers humiliated themselves by collecting badges, and that was already the case, solving the lumens, and on the groups, Facebook has become the subject of mockery among the professors, and that is the naked truth. There is no methodologically correct evaluation of the School of Life that would show how successful or unsuccessful the reform is. No relevant research has been carried out on this subject, therefore, and in your... There is an impression that no modern aids, techniques of group project work were used before your reform in the course, and the goals of the reform were to teach students to think, solve problems, but unfortunately it did not happen. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There are no figures to prove it. I remember when Prime Minister Oreshkovic spoke for this pay phone, give me the numbers. For root changes, procedures in the education system are important to the greater extent by ousting the factographic data that children need to learn and significantly more project and practical teaching. Just these days, the famous pills come to the students' hands. I don't think teachers are trained enough to use them in teaching or there's a wide range of materials for them. You have reduced the award of teachers to a small number of people and only those who actively participate in your reform. Those teachers who are not in your reform have no chance of progress. We have pills in schools, but that's why in some schools, the noise falls on our students, like. The school in Lower Miholjc, for which I asked for the budget to be restored and which ministry refused. Information professors have additional complications with providing wi-fi signals and maintaining a system in schools and they are not paid for it even though a year ago we asked from this speaker to attack on teachers and teachers as an attack on an official person, you did so only on the pressure of teachers and teachers. You still don't know what to do with the Educational Inspection Act, that's what we first talked about. Why do teachers and teachers who are on replacements, why do they check out during the holidays, and why do they actually get paid when holidays pass, so they get re-received to school, like the other teachers? Minister, in your mind is the introduction of a small graduation as a student who is an excellent mathematician or a chemist would not remain short sleeves because of a three or four from another class that is now happening? What is the Law on Preschool Education and Education which, by all accounts, goes after the degradation of the teacher's profession and why this law has not yet entered here, so we haven't discussed it, but what we could see is that it wants to increase pedagogical standards for preschool education. To me personally, your biggest mistake is the lack of dialogue with the profession, you presented your reform as your own, you went quickly into it so that you could complete your project by the end of your current term, and therefore all stakeholders in the educational process from teachers, teachers, parents and children suffer. After you'll be left with a PR soap balloon that'll explode when you're no longer a minister and the money that's spent will be thrown into the wind. And finally, just one little detail about the unhappiness and the failure of your ministry, which is that she has arrived, that I am in possession and that I have spoken to this lady, a lady who works at a Zagreb elementary school who is a cook, who has been sexually abused in her work and who has the power to rule that it has happened. So no more complaints, the rightful verdict is that the employee who works with her at school is that he sexually abused her. She returned to work after her illness, however, that gentleman who did it remained working with her, the abuse sexually stopped but remained verbal. She told me that she wrote to your ministry but apparently the principal doesn't want to change her chamber and the woman is still in some way suffering. So I don't believe you did it on purpose but she says she wrote you to get rid of it, since you're a supporter of the Istanbul Convention, and I, for example, am a supporter of the Istanbul Convention. No, I think it's okay to take care of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u182006	Thank you. He's a colleague of the Celebrity Dobrović. He's gone. We move forward, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the CNS, dear colleague Stjepan Curaj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u182007	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President, the esteemed Vice President of the Government, the respected ministers with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. I'm going to try in half of this exposure something addressed, more shots to tell you what's really going on here and try to just remind us here a few and the public who's watching and who's going to watch what's been done. First of all, what message is being sent here? At least the way I see it here. Don't change anything, we'll forgive you everything but success ever. Our worst minister, even if he's been replaced, is better than anyone else because everything else is wrong. The political impression is more important than content. Let's political position ourselves, let's go catch some train, some point no matter what. Many times he complains to governments, to this government, to all governments that no opposition proposals are accepted but at the same time, it is difficult to hear the opposition accepting the work of certain ministers, as only a round will say. We can expect the same from the other, I'm not saying it's a good thing. Says the attack despite public support, 81% are either over 80% of parents, etc., not despite that, because I say once again, we'll forgive everything, no success. So if someone has public support, it's not good, it's not good for our political goal, it's not good for our political fight, our ratings and everything else, let's narrow it down in any way. Let's throw him in the mud, let's go wrestling in that mud so everyone turns out to be equal. It's a strategy that is more or less everyone and on the one hand they have served and served, I'm not saying anything that was better and when it was the opposite situation. He says reform as a fig leaf, imagine. There's that mean HNS who cheated on voters, how now you say he did something good for these citizens or for the future of our children, so we can't afford it. They're con men, they cheated and they're done. Whatever you do, it's no good. We have to stick to it, who's drunk, because otherwise, what are we going to do, praise them for doing something right? The voters will decide, I agree. The citizens will decide, I agree, and also, let our greatest sin be and that we have deceived voters if we have made it in the interest of the citizens, so be it, so let us be no more, but we cannot deny it to be done and that something that has not been done for years has been done. We have to wait, it's not complete, let's wait, let's wait, let's wait, let's not wait yet, so not every decimal is good yet, on paper it might not look good, and when it starts in implementation, why should we start with one piece and then upgrade, no, let's wait, it's not complete, maybe not all the people inside. That's the way we are here. That's the way we wait and wait. And what did you do? Just some of the stuff. Adopted amendments to the Law on Education and Education in primary and secondary schools. The new Law on textbooks was passed, there was a colleague of Sladolev, quoting and using every right to quote and literally speak what some publishers say, now of which interest, then. Easier school bags, information as a mandatory subject, since the school year 2020/2021 information as an election subject in first grade primary schools. So let's not use it all the time, the rulebook that we've been talking about has been passed, a regulation that regulates the position of assistants in the teaching, a new application for selecting textbooks, again transparently based on mathematical selection without the ability to pressure them to choose, that the waist chooses, as it was for the lecturers, the waist chooses which will be lecturers, completed the successful pilot of the e-school project and actually concluded that it extends to all schools in the Republic. The European Commission has approved the education ministry as many as 3 support projects for structural reforms related to curricular reform and I will do so later. There were speeches, changes and additions to the Law on Professional Education we had, a national curricula for vocational education, a network of regional centres of competence, 25 regional centres, a model of Croatian dual education, a project to modernise the system of vocational education and training over 200, 230 million. In higher education, the Croatian qualification framework, projects various for STEM studies, I think so on, etc., so study programmes in foreign languages 50 million kuna, software financing of higher education and science, so absolutely encouraged, that, that, in order to encourage deficit programs, the Law on the performance of student jobs is a threshold, which is a student clock, how to solve, until now, no one has decided that you students are right, you have this minimum, you are being monitored, coordinated with the minimality of the Republic, so far in these 30 years. No, because maybe it's not complete or maybe there's something else you need. STEM studies, not to speak further, promoting excellence, in science, investing in science over 2.5 billion European funds etc., entering CERN, so on and so forth, perhaps best picturesquely explain that it is only for the 2015 Lectir. 200,000,00 kn, 2019. 42.4, and here we've had the same attacks that are being reported is not. Scholarships 2017 5400, 2019. 14000, cabinets, equipment for physics, for chemistry, for the rest of 2014/2015 0, today 100 million, 0, 100, shifts. Investment in vocational education, previous mandates all total 0, today 1.5 billion kuna, shifted. Investment in the introduction of mandatory information, so far 0,36.5 million kuna, immediately shifted, is no good. CERN, it's moving, it's waiting to be complete, to be whole, let's not now, we're not going to let the masters in, now, we're in. I think it's wise to say that it's been invested so far in the work of this government mandate, this ministry 10,000.00 kn per student, per every single one of the EU funds alone, and 1.5 million kuna per school, no one's ever done it before, but no, of course I can tell the one who's doing it and it's wrong that it could've been even better, because I said the meaning of this, is that this reform has brought the situation now that our students are in a worse position, the same or better, I haven't heard anywhere that they're worse, but I just heard that it's not all done and it's not exactly how it's supposed to be, so it's not good, but let's just, so let's just, you know what we're trying to do perfection, we're not going to go forward until it's all as well, and we're going to wait for the 20th. And we'll never do anything, so it seems to me. And at the end of my presentation, I just want to remind you that the commission really praised and then we use it today in the discussions that we will criticise, and I will give my colleagues Bulju and Hajdukovic an 2018 Education and Training Review. Croatia na str. 4 and p. 2 exactly where it is cited and said, "A ambitious reform in education and training has been launched after a period where there has been no progress due to political disagreement," in Croatian that we understand each other as well, so since there have been questions about how no one has seen it, here let me deliver it to you, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u182008	Thank you. Comrade Batinić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u182009	Thank you, Vice President, Your Honor, Deputy Prime Minister, Ministers with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues are legitimately asked to show confidence or mistrust, a political act, a statement of attitude, an opinion on the work of a minister. My colleagues and colleagues from the SDP, the two of you, the three of you, are just showing your numbers behind this. When I read your explanation, I expected something higher, I expected something more substantial, but apparently I can only conclude that it is cheap politics. In fact, since I have a little time left, I'm just going to take a quick look at some debates, even though it's both the Prime Minister and the Minister, and in an individual debate, we're going to say something more about this, for the introduction, I'd just like to say that we at the HNS are looking at the content, but...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u182010	Your Honor, Comrade Batinic, I apologize. Hold on a second. My colleague Curaj and my colleague Bulj would like to ask you nicely not to disturb your colleague Batinić while he discusses, please welcome fellow Batinić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u182011	Thank you very much. Our people have that saying, it's important what they say, but it's also not necessary to ignore who's saying it, who's saying it. Well, here's my colleague, Glasovac, you've criticised and mentioned Mr. Nenad Bakic and mentioned, you've associated with some corrupt actions so that your president, the strategist, the candidate for the prime minister's office, Mr. Bernardic, was, I don't know if he was invited or invited himself to the promotion of microcomputers and automatism to support this project, as if he were praised. Now, I can understand you in one part is not in my manner, but when I said it was important to pay attention to who is saying something I would just remind you of what was, is that it was at the end of last year in the end of 2018, when it comes to the relations of you in SDP, means the creators of this act that has no content, which we refuse, we refuse. I'd just like to remind you, and that's exactly what I mentioned in the debate, you wrote him an article, probably on a party assignment, and that's where you mentioned some incorrect data. I apologize if that's the case, but you defended him when he spoke. So this is how, even though your members pointed out that this is the one, this question of trust is being passed. That some of your members do not understand why this is done, and also President-elect Milanovic said that the reform was good even though it was not your candidate, but you only supported it. That only speaks of your party president and the relationship within the SDP. But also fellow Members of the Voice here in, on their own, published on social networks so-called. I'm going to quote the life or warpath of my party president, that's what I'm saying to the citizens who follow, when they listened to Mr Bernardic about his credentials, about his credibility, when you said that I don't know 20 years of social volunteer engagement, about his political activities, now he says, he's always been in some functions. Who put it on? Bandic, Brunic and Milanovic. And you're criticizing the same Bandic. Although I heard from Bandic about 4, 5 years ago, they're all my children. Also, what is also important to mention is that it is characterized as a carrier, as the bearer of this proposal for distrust, says its meaning, its life motto, everything for a chair, a chair for nothing, who doesn't know it expensively would pay it. It's not in my manner, it's not my way, it's not my way, but I repeat, our people have a saying, it's content, but it's equally no less important who says it, who says it. I'd have a lot more to comment on, that's what I'll do in an individual debate. As for some of your allegations where you're fabricating some data, where you haven't even dented yourself into the contents, to the point, into the scale of things. Thank you, HNS, of course, cannot support your proposal for distrust, and we will make that very clear in the vote, and more in the individual debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u182012	Thank you. We have injuries to the Rules of Procedure, dear colleague Miro Bulj, here you are. You're giving up. Dear fellow Thunderbolt? Thank you. On behalf of the GLAS Representatives Club, dear colleague Anka Mrak Taritash, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u182013	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Government, the Honorable Minister Divjak with his associates, so on January 16th we are still in the assembly, I must admit in view of the late time, regardless of how it may seem to you, we are here by quite a number. So, you don't think there's much of it. So there's absolutely a lot of us in class and I'm going to read my speech in part without wanting to piss off my colleague Batinić, but since this is too late, it's going to be easier for me to read some of them. So I'll say the introduction next. Even before the birth of Christ, the ancient Romans in their right have defined the rule that we know today as the Cathon rule, which tells us that what is void at the moment of its creation cannot become valid over time. Or how it was formulated in this part of the world in a loud sentence by Baltazar Bogisic, which the coat of arms did not correct. This is unfortunately also the case with your mandate, or with the work of Ms Blaženka Divjak. We're here to discuss Minister Blazenka Divjak and her work. Mrs. Wilderly, you didn't stand a chance. Everything that goes wrong can't be fixed. You took over this function by your will at the time of the creation of a commercial clientelistic coalition and you served as a fig leaf for true intentions and background agreements that made it and the coalition come into existence. It was also clear to those who very little follow and understand Croatian politics that you had no chance to do something serious after a 2.5 year term, that is. In doing so, I would remind myself of the first step, when we saw the first step, it was all clear to us and that little hope that something was going to happen to leave us. It was the appointment of an expert task force that first turned into a political scandal of such middle intensity, and then into a classic trade agreement entirely in line with the coalition you belong to. I listened carefully before me on behalf of the HNS Club said Mr. Curaj and he clearly showed and told the HNS, so what he was trying to say is that you're a non-party, it's just not so. But let's take a step aside. Let's see why your recall was even initiated, why it even started, what were the reasons, what were the arguments. These arguments, of course, those who run will argue with all the elements that it has to do, while ruling it will defend it, and the vote will be on Friday and I must admit it will be an interesting vote and I will conclude this one such political review. There have been some announcements from the HDZ Club that some will support, will not support, but Friday is very far away. We who are in this House and spend both days and nights know that the debate often says one thing, then comes the moment of voting, and then your party discipline is stronger than anything else. It will be interesting and coalition partner Mr Bandic who is a coalition partner of both HDZ and HNS as he will, given everything he said and it was not pleasant to listen to me, and I believe it was even less pleasant for Mrs Divjak to listen to you, how there will be his chips, although every time I get so much creep when I say the word tokens, but he used it, so I'm just repeating what Mr Bandic said. When you enter any reform it's not a simple job, let's be honest, it's not a simple job everyone's pushing for reform, but not exactly in my yard and not right now and not in that way. And equally reform does three things to you, makes you content, makes you resources, so conditions and makes you human. You can have the most perfect idea if you don't have people to do it, paint for free. Now let's step by step see what we're actually talking about here. We are talking about the sins of Minister Blaženka Divjak, who was a candidate for the rector of the University of Zagreb. So first, it's a complete curricula reform, and we all agreed here that it's loose and that it doesn't exist anymore. And try to explain, so, of course, it has to be realized in stages, it has to be realized in phases, it can't be realized all of a sudden, and that that's how you started here probably wouldn't be about your recall and talking, but it just isn't like that. It has failed and this failure of full curricula reform goes to your soul and your references to the respected Minister Divjak. Of course, you should always think about how work is shown. What everyone said before me, and they pointed out that they couldn't avoid it as well and not point out the fact of that one of your PRs, which would have been the level of a small school, and that taught you to try to repeat certain sentences, that they would be artificial, because if we repeat enough sentences, then they would become reality, and we have to admit that somehow decent people in this country were a little bit offended and additionally irritated. Let's talk about money that hasn't been saved, and we don't think it should be saved if you know the idea and if you know the goal, but it's very interesting that when you're doing public procurement that you're here a little bit when it comes to getting a textbook for the School of Life, so Virtual Doers, you've got a little bit of a screw-up on the whole process, so because of the irregularities in EU implementation, it refused to participate in part of the cost as it was, so 6.4 million fell to the burden of the state budget. Otherwise, that public procurement was somewhat characterized by your mandate and your ministry's work and proved quite unsuccessful, quite a bit of gossip, and at some point it was the School of Life, which you were so keenly in favour of, and I think someone who was doing one job must have stood up for it because if you didn't believe that you were going to convince someone else, but that somehow it was down to the purchase of a bunch of computers, so I don't say pills, which at first embarrassed themselves with their quality, not to say that then and climate change was because they were some big rain in China, so the supplier was from China, so it was all wrong, and it was actually all about the creaming, let's say that it was about the creaming and that it was so. We come to vocational education, I just have to remind you that the HOK has warned the ministry that it has led to both parents and students and potential employers, given that there have been promises and none of this has been realised. And in this case, Madam Minister, you have failed to realize that child's PR is not content. The ministry that you are at the head of should primarily be based on content. Now we come to your relationship with the university, there have been and you have already responded to some replicas that you have received, but there are a number of things from never explaining the ban on employment and progress, through a lot of failed administrative supervision, until the signing of programming contracts so that in these relations between the ministry and the university, our surprise is ruled by chaos. It would be expected not to be so, but unfortunately there is chaos. And we come naturally to the crown of your mandate and the reason why there was actually a request for a shift, which was a major strike in schools. I must admit that I was sorry, I was sorry to see you, I was in a government of some kind of minister, so I know that it wasn't quite as simple as that, but in the biggest course of this strike you were left alone, when it was all together, this painful strike that really caused the discomfort among all of us, you were excluded from the government where you sat down, you were despised by teachers who justifiably felt overwhelmed and deceived and also proved yourself where, where you were going and where you had actually not had a chance to end this story well, to repeat what "the coat of arms did not correct the time". Both you and as I know that the School of Life is not a complete curricula reform, which is a small part of it, it is more difficult to define and answer at all now, but what we do know is that because of a strike that is not responsible for you, it is the responsibility of Prime Minister Plenkovic, who was stubborn and did not want to sit at the table with the people who came to him in front of the Bane Court or at St. John's Square. Mark 1 and asked to sit at the table and talk, so there, the responsibility is on it, but on you is the responsibility of the quality of education that students will receive this year. Something that was expected to be brought to our attention as Mr. Plenkovic can say is the results of this year's graduation. And when you look at the results of the last 4-5 years. at prom, this year, the drop of graduation, we're talking about last school year of course, it's about 1,000 graduates dropped, the year before that was 500, and it was 200 to 300, and it was your job and your responsibility to analyze what happened, so there could have been very simple scenarios, like you said, I may not be competent enough to say it, but I have some experience, so I can say, the scenario might be, that the children, so that one group is educated, and that the group that the prom questions agree, doesn't look at the way it was in the program or I don't know what else could have been, it was your role and your significance, but unfortunately it's not so. What specifically showed me the extent of all your mandate was your statement before the cabinet session, so when everyone referred to a statement, that I also referred to some December 27th when you were, and I'm not going to quote, but I'm going to convince around, you told the journalists dead that the greatest success of the government in the past year was a curriculative reform and that you said that after the strike, when the students had no teaching for more than a month and after the assessment of experts that there was no full curriculative reform and that you were to blame for its failure. You are Minister Divjak only served as an excuse to create a national trade coalition and you are aware of that and all of us who are in such a government in opposition, but what some colleagues in HDZ have already said are aware of it, so you only had the opportunity to see how many replicas have come from the HDZ which is not at all, which is absolutely an exception when it comes to your impeachment, before that it was not, but what Minister Divjak, your work and you yourself are actually a real symbol of this government, without content, without success, without moving in the right direction, but therefore full of yourself and boast. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u182014	Thank you. We're moving on to individual debates, dear colleague Stjepan Curaj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u182015	I thank the Honorable Vice President, and now that we always have some, some, some, worried we're not getting out, that we're repeating ourselves, here's a colleague saying earlier that it's without content, and now I'm forced to quote maybe this whole content, which was done in the last 2.5-3 years, even less than 3, which isn't good maybe for you, I don't see that there's anything that's been referred to, a lot of things like this in general, that I'm talking about now, so maybe I should start with these remarks, so let's just get through, so first of all, we've had from fellow Bernardic that the textbooks in OSH Ive Andric have been delivered, that it's about textbooks working on the minority language program, and that's not the first time and it doesn't, it doesn't justify anything that maybe before, in the previous governments and so much more, there't have to be, but there't be, there't be any reason for the rest. State graduation, 5 days before the end of the school year, yes, we know why, in 2011, it was also April 4, 2013 in office when you were assistant, as well as in May, so absolutely nothing. Microcalculation, just as counterpart Batinic mentioned it, was already a colleague Bernardic at the presentation and used it nicely as a photo opportunity to take pictures, to see how something is done, so now it can be respected for what was present there. As for the 6.4 million kuna, I can accept the criticism, absolutely, obviously there was a mistake. However, when we look at the total amount of the agreed funds before 0, now billions, and then 6 million versus billions, it may be logical that some error that is measured in the diabolicals happens, I think it is 15 and less than the total of what was done, so it is somehow seen by the European Commission's standards that, in fact, it is much, much more so when we talk about the total location of the funds that this non-recognition of certain costs or the event of a mistake is not justified, someone should and answer for the mistakes. As for colleagues from MOST, we have already heard that one of the main plans of the government, the team of Oreskovic, was to stop the curricula reform because it is actually going to stop what was started at that time with Boris Jokic because it was probably not acceptable for them ideologically, let what our students show results on the tests and what we have no time to wait for and it is my main grudge to all of you that we do not really have time to wait for some ideal perfect circumstances because in such a way we are not going to get anywhere or actually go. As for the strike, as well as one of the main reasons for the shift, we have on the one hand the minister acts more like a unionist, on the other hand attacking her that she didn't side with the union when she needed to. And now that I'm looking left, I'm looking right, it's always true somewhere in the middle, so here's the thing that's been right in the middle and sitting and in the political center just as far away from each other, then I think maybe it was, not that I think, but I know that it was actually right, but given that you've already started that initiative, that we're talking about a month and a half later, that's another reason, the result is the one that is important and the result is that teachers and students at school have record, and that the record increase and record high wages that I think may not even be enough for me, of course by raising for those who perform their diligent and honorary duty and passing our children rightly, there are also those who don't do it just as well as any other pair of gloves and then we're wondering why, what the epilog of that. The epilogue is the one I said, it is the ideal situation for the minister to resign, provoke new elections, that is, the SDP comes to power and it gives pay increases to teachers and everyone happy and satisfied. The ideal scenario and, look, I'm mad, I'm going to do something, we're going to show it's not going to be able to introduce this minister and bring in the reform and the billions from the funds and everything I've actually mentioned, which wasn't even from the speakers, scholarships, investment in the cabinet, for the first time the law that the state can invest in that infrastructure, in that noise that someone mentioned there, the school in Donji Miholjc, so a new one is being built, there's not going to be a problem with the resources of the state budget that was not previously legally or founder of the county or city. So it changed that it could be helped and that it could be invested in infrastructure and the founder and that is the sole task of the founder rather than the state. So, investment in vocational education, billions, 25 centres of competence, dual education, I think, etc., etc. So it's been done a lot, probably somewhere it's gone wrong, I'll admit it. When we look and we always have to compare, it's always the worst thing, you're now calling something that was before. We need to know what our Benchmark is, what are we going to evaluate someone's success on? What do you normally do that for? as we estimate whether someone is successful or not, as we judge the students, there are no between 1 and 5 in the west, but are evaluated based on the year, are you in the first 10%, in the first 20% or 30% of the generation. So it's estimated on the basis of others, so our work as a politician is based on the whole result and the comparison that something was before and not how someone thinks it might be. I mean, no, I don't want people's sayings right now, I prefer Latin. Well, then normally when we look at something that was zero, and now we have billions and then we say it's no good. That someone has to explain to me the logic other than that political perception, taking a stand, let's put it down a little bit, trim the wings, let's go, it took off too much, too many people love it etc., I understand that, absolutely understand that. I can understand that, but then I can get into arguments and ask for something, so I'm just a little bit of justice, and then I'm clearly saying politically wrong, that's a product, that's right, so it's the same fairer than some quasi argument because a lot of it is good and I'm sorry too, I've said to countless colleagues, that we didn't do this in the morning debate because absolutely if at least somewhere this government can be commended with so many things, reform, not that the commission praises, it's on the side, it's just in the ministry of education and health, and there's a fellow from construction, I think that he deserves the same commendation. And that's why it's an ideal opportunity to specify everything that's done, what's changed and what is. I'm saying that maybe better, maybe, but say, look, it's not best, it's not 100%, you're doing a reform that's not 100% of everything, you're better off doing nothing, it can't be explained to me that it's an argument that someone needs to be replaced. I don't know if there's anything else about these famous pills, so the pills are being obtained through the central public procurement office, and as long as we have such a law on public procurement that the economic cost is not a very large factor of choice, but the lowest price, by then we're going to get it so how about the pills, so it was for everything else. This isn't what the ministry does or does, so it's clear once and for all, that I don't repeat myself. And in conclusion, I'm just going to convince, in fact, I won't even convince, but I'm going to mention what the principals of the school that were involved in the experimental phase had to go through at the weekly level. Several of them, but indeed several from our area of Slavonia and Baranja came and said that it was no longer to endure. They've been called from different newspapers, TVs, portals a week, which you have negatively to say. ... Nothing good but they called them a week, they said it wasn't anymore, they said the pressures to say something, to say something bad because what's good isn't news, because the goal is to stick one of those, as you say to a commercial stranger or something like that, can't do something good right now. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's not, it's not for people's purposes in the brain, and I said nicely, if we've cheated on our voters we'll answer them, they'll punish us for the end of the story. But what remains is something that will be carved into the minds of our children and the welfare of our entire country. And if that was the price, so be it for the price of never being here again, I certainly won't be. So I don't really see that we're going back, but let's take every chance, let's just say we should, and I think that this was also one of those opportunities and I regret that it wasn't all day and day and that it wasn't in focus anymore and it came down to just what was done was talking and thank God the most was done in all the restaurants and then the absurd is bigger to replace the one who made the most, and maybe that's actually the reason. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u182016	I thank my esteemed colleague Curai. Replicas, dear colleague Sabina Vosovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u182017	Comrade Curaj, you can't pass the graduation exam before the students finish their school year. You were right before, I was appointed assistant in 2013. This is contrary to Article 16. State graduation regulations. So that's, and not only have we changed it, but we've also moved the exams from mandatory classes to the end of the non-school year for graduates, but for all students to facilitate teachers and teachers to conduct public education exams from mandatory classes because it was a lot more of this student, it took a lot more classrooms to conduct, a lot more attendance. So this mathematics, the Croatian this foreign language, all the parts we moved means that we could do more later, we put these smaller objects to the extent that they match the school year not for seniors but for others, and that should be taken into account. This move, not that it's not in accordance with the rule, it's just not in line. with reason. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u182018	Come in, buddy. Come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u182019	I don't know, I see an elephant here, but we can act like no one can see him. So now we want to see that elephant or not, that's now, this is how you see him standing here, he's like this. You know how big it is? 36 days is big, strike and compensation, or 18, 16 days is as big as it is. So obviously it's not a regular and normal situation, and I agree with you. Well neither do I, well it isn't, but we have a situation that we have, we have to steal those days somewhere, people have to, our students have to make up for, and we need to know that there's a much bigger stake in colleges, state graduations, etc. And what used to be just saying that it survived, that's not the rule. This is the exception that confirms the rule, I'd say more. So, you know why this was done, what is the plan of compensation if otherwise graduates have a month and a little less days of teaching compared to.../incomprehensible/...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u182020	Thank you. Next replica, dear colleague Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u182021	I listened to your presentations, and I must tell you, when I was a kid at school, they taught us not to lie. It was something that irritated the professor terribly, and it's generally like this on the human side looking at an ugly habit, and it's not just good to lie. However, the government currently headed by Croatia and the minister it represents was actually created on lies, it was lied, it was spoken, it would not be with HDZ, and then it went away. And what lesson does HNS membership teach in the government and Minister Divjak as ministers? And it gives the message that a lie can actually be lied, that lying is normal, etc. I personally think it isn't, and that's why I stand for the shift. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u182022	Thank you. Comrade Curaj, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u182023	I'm trying to figure out this logical sylogism now, so you're saying it was a lie, lying isn't good, and that's why you're gonna back this minister's shift. So I said it and I'll say it again. I believe that when that was said it was really what it thought, that it turned out the way it turned out, that it was an honor to us and that it could be done much better, it was. I believe it is. Then I believe the question of why someone would lie, why don't you just shut up and settle down and step aside if that's what it is. I believe it was said because it was thought to be the best way, as was what was being done and the best way not for the party, not for the great majority of us in the party, but for the country that is, and that price we will all pay or we will not depend on the results of how citizens will assess it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u182024	Thank you. We move on to the next debate, dear colleague Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u182025	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ministers with co-workers, Deputy Prime Minister, so I, too, want to start with a strict separation of what is private and what is political. In fact, I met the minister in a completely different context, at the University of Zagreb as a fortune teller, as a scientist I still appreciate that there is no confusion, but political is something else entirely. And that minister that you agreed to be the minister, were you party or non-party with your name barats exactly the party that brought you here. You're a politician, Your Honor. And I'm a professor by profession and I'm thinking one of the few people here in this assembly who's passed the entire vertical education, from primary school to college as a professor first of all, and then, first of all, as a student and a student. And I publish scientific papers even though I don't have a scientific calling or a scientific teaching, but I'm a politician by your party colleagues. And then you're also because by the fact that you accepted to be a minister, you're a politician, just like me. And here I can now speak as a colleague of Petrijevcan spoke both as a teacher and as a student of the former and as a student of the former, but I speak here as a politician and you speak as a politician and that is something that we must immediately distinguish. I'd like to start with a few things, first of all, that the vice-president of the government in front of the CNS told the press while we were arguing here, who didn't really break up saying something about this big reform that was supposed to be carried out, and he said that the opposition allegedly extended the debate at the last point so that, in order to be careful, it would spread this into these late hours because, well, we don't have arguments. Well, we've got them pretty good. In fact, it's you who ruled that point before, we didn't put it together, i.e. agenda. You're the one who put her on, Comrade Stromar. You have people here in the Parliament, including a fellow Batinic who called on the HS presidency who could have said, no, no, insist on even, put it in the morning, so let's see the arguments. Here, you see how interested HDZ people are in talking. Well, she's not a minister either, yes. They're very, very motivated. All right. So when we talk about the education system, I don't know where to start. I have already said in one replica that I have experienced a number of reforms, which as a student, which as a student, and then as a professor at different levels of education and none of these reforms have succeeded, and I will tell you why it failed. Because in the term of office of one minister or one government, and the minister of education rarely gets to see the end of the term because rarely who has joined four years, to be honest, nothing can be carried out. From that famous HNOS I still remember and from which I still have trauma to what we have today. And if I was working at school today, I'd probably have the same trauma. So someone comes to you and says, you see, now forget all that you've done before, everything you've been taught in college, everything you've been listening to at professional gatherings, and now we're doing this. Like this. Forget everything that happened before, now begins a new era, now, with me, with this reform, with this document. My colleagues and colleagues, it just doesn't work like that, especially in one big system that includes a very charming pillar of people, I'd say. So those who work in it are, both older generations and younger, and those who finished school in the former state and in this, in different phases, segments, so whether they graduated from high schools, colleges, that I am not now entering the whole complexity of this space and education in it. And you can't change that system overnight. I haven't been in that system in a long time, but I've been listening to my colleagues and colleagues talking about him, and here I'm going to quote a message that I received during this debate from a teacher, who says, here I am, quoting, before we started reforming, we've had education since the 4th month, and we started working with kids at the 9th month. It's that systematic reform, I guess. And those educations, so I quote again, the cat on the tail. On our last advisory visit, they directly told us that in the future we would be technologically surplus if we did not solve the lumens. Virtual classrooms. Now, you tell me what a systematic structural deep reform it is. Because, look, I often like to quote what an Athens philosopher said when they asked him what's the most important interest in the Athenians. He said next. If Athens doesn't have good tailors, the Athenians will be naked. If she doesn't have good carpenters, the Athenians will be barefoot. But if she doesn't have good teachers, Athens won't be. And that's why I'm telling you. If you're doing this to people who should wear a reform, and from personal experience, I'm saying that this system rests exclusively on the enthusiasm of individuals who work in it and who love their jobs, then what can you expect? I used to say the same thing in the replica how valuable people's work is. People who are 12 months old. invested in the same reform, 120 kn. A colleague told me, "Here, I can go to the pub and turn the round." For my work, for my knowledge, for everything I've invested in, in which politicians will boast, not scientists, but politicians, colleagues and colleagues. So if we're talking about credibility, if we're talking about structural reform, we're already going down here. When we talk about European reports, I'm reading here a summary that's prepared for each country individually, I'll read it in English because, I don't want to translate it, just to figure out what kind of language loops this is about. He says this, quote, reforms are underway invasive and educational training, participation in early education, in early childhood education and carry... of teachers and places. [[The speaker does not understand, speaks fast and in English.]] The plan to expand the very short everage instruction time could help to improve low education outcomes. I don't see praise here. Low education outcomes, mate. Hello. Short everage instructional time. Hello. ... of teachers and places. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Hello. And you said well that in Lower Miholjc school is in catastrophic condition. I can list you a series more where and now you refuse class. Like that, under quotes. Because there's one foot in there, holding the building so it doesn't collapse, and the other you're protecting the students so they don't get hurt. I wish we could talk success here. Says colleague Curaj that successes can't be forgiven. Well, I would, I would very much like to forgive you for this success, under quotes, colleague. Very, very much so. But we in the SDP have proven that we know how to support the proposals of the majority that we consider to be of quality. Well, let's just say, HDZ never did. So, HDZ when we were in power and colleague Curaj, along with us, if we said it was something white, they'd say, no, it's gray. If we said this was blue, they'd say, no, it's blue, we're against it. It's always like that. What is a constructive opposition? When you talk about the work of Minister Divjak, I don't know if you're talking about the work of the CNS or the non-party minister anymore. If it's a non-party minister, it's not the CNS. Comrade Batinić, please explain to me how you raised your hands for all those suggestions during the time, while we were most of us, along with you, who now strongly condemn. How you supported the education policy back then, and now it's suddenly the worst thing that's happened in this country, at least in your own words. I can't understand that logic. When we talk about financial instructions, they don't mean anything to you at the end of the day, colleagues and colleagues, necessarily that you get quality. Here, look at the agriculture, the input is growing production down, in the people would say a lot of buzzing little honey gives, a lot of money we invest, but in exactly what? In agriculture, the same problem is, I'm pulling the parallel now, maybe it's not so easy to connect, but because we don't know where we're going, why, what our goals are, and that's what we're missing here. Me and some speakers before me can realize that someone wants to leave their mark, their contribution, it's understandable, it's human, but doing something to say that we're doing something, which is it, buzzing a little honey giving and at the end of the day we have? We have people who should be the spine of that reform, which are not but very dissatisfied because here I'm going to tell you, I have a few more messages, let's say I have one colleague who says, never again, dear colleague you remember how much we had to write, queen, reports, descriptive grades, now multiply it by three, believe me, here I'll believe her, but believe me, colleagues and colleagues when I was a teacher, we did a lot of things, endless reports that didn't contribute to the scientific or teaching process, now if she says it's three, explain to me where this school of life is?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u182026	Thank you. We have replicas, dear colleague Sabina Vosovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u182027	You're absolutely right to say that these people through Lumen education are being humiliated and done in some way to slaves. One newspaper from 10 days ago is that, for example, curriculative classes or schools that, in which it was introduced, new elements of evaluation were introduced. These new evaluation elements, meaning the school lasts from 9 months, but education in Lumen is open only on 10 January and will last until 12 March and I am now wondering how teachers deal with the need to evaluate through new elements, wondering where, how, and education only follows, it is currently in, ongoing. The second thing you said about the European Commission, so that they say that this is a thank you, so where the Republic of Croatia is not spitin', but it's a fact of fact that I guess I'll just automatically thank you, it's just a fact that we're going to say something final about it. A factual condition shall be established. [[/Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u182028	Next replica, dear colleague, here's your answer, my apologies.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u182029	So to determine the actual state, the fact is this is all we've mentioned. However, I don't read laudes anywhere here, so I can translate this into, to Croatian and I think it would be a credible translation because, that I'm a teacher of linguistics like you, with other colleagues, but I don't read any laudes anywhere. As for Lumen and his relationship with the teachers, so I told you, six months of someone's work, expertise and enthusiasm, you know what it's worth? 128.00 kn, 128.00 kn and so you appreciate people who need to be the backbone of that reform, so of course there will be no reform.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u182030	Thank you. Next replica, respected counterpart Milorad Batinic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u182031	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Hajdukovic, I didn't mean to rephrase, but when you did, I'm going to call me back with what my colleague Curaj says is that his cares are in Latin, mea culpa, that I was wrong, I was wrong, and I'm going to tell you why. A colleague of Jovanovic, you replaced our current one with the fact that we need to be clear that the HNS had no jurisdiction over that resort. The second problem was the next Minister Molnar who said the problem was that to introduce information, something else should be thrown out, and that's always the problem. In addition, there are not enough IT teachers, which means that they should be educated and employed, so I learned to solve problems in life, and if something can be solved in walking, then I don't think it's a problem, mea culpa or else I wasn't one of those in HNS who supported going into the pre-election coalition, and I'm not today.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u182032	Thank you. The answer of colleague Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u182033	Thank you very much. So, a colleague saying that you weren't in charge of the resort, so I think it's out of his mind, that means what we didn't agree, you don't agree in any politics with HDZ, but education doesn't touch us, it's ours, and now that HDZ, I'm going to caricing, destroy agriculture, public finances, this, what, no, we don't care, you know, it's not in our jurisdiction, so when you're part of one majority then you're responsible for everything and you need to accept it, it's the price of most, at least I see it that way. When you're talking about, let's say some brilliant statements, so I'll just remind you of a statement from your president who said he doesn't have an IT teacher, so we'll well retrain the professors of history, the credentials, so a course of two months, so that's what they'll be, they'll be great IT teachers, that's what we talk about in education when we talk about your political option.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u182034	Thank you. Next debate, respected counterpart Milorad Batinic, please welcome fellow Batinic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u182035	Thank you, Vice President, so everything has its reasons, and so does this question of trust, to raise the issue of mistrust to Minister Divjak. I ask myself questions, I believe it's more than evident from the very reason why this question is raised, the lack of confidence, what is the motive? The motive is the destabilising of this government, only and nothing else, and let's show ourselves a little bit, let's do a little wave anyway, so we don't produce anything, we don't make any contribution, something that we can do as an opposition that would disagree, constructive suggestions, even if we at the HNS will always respect them, but obviously there was nothing on your part that could be accepted, appreciated, meaning motive is exclusively destabilising the government, so let's use a little of this, so a little strike etc. And now that a man, I'm talking, I've tried to make sure that in your explanations I find something really that might be that the minister can or may be reprimanded, don't let God show no confidence because what you've stated in the explanation, I just said not even for the yellow card, that's even when the judge looks at you a little over at the football game, I'm going to use that jargon. There's a lot of contradiction, and I'm going to look back a little bit at the debate and what's been said about it in public space, before that, etc., it's all connected, of course. Your strategist and pretender at the prime minister, educational reform does not exist in his quote, and now it needs to be abolished. I'm sorry he's gone, but I'd like him to answer me now through the replica why he wants to abolish this reform, which is his goal, what reason? Is it jealousy that in four years of office, we were members of the government, nothing was done about it? It's started. Also, says a colleague, I urge the minister to introduce Croatia into the 21st century to repair roofs in schools. Well, I didn't expect that, I'm counting on if we engage in certain discussions in certain analyses to then determine what is the ministry's jurisdiction and what is the founder's responsibility. I quoted as your former Secretary of the Navy, also your members, prominent or those who declare themselves Social Democrats, I must admit that I don't understand why we launched this initiative. Obviously not necessary, the 31st signature was, President-elect Milanovic said, the reform is good. means 8 September 2019 on the ‘Week at 2’ show. So now I'm asking myself a question, a question of your credibility, your seriousness of launching such an initiative. I'm not surprised, however, because in the initiative, you wrote something. How relevant is this content? Absolutely not. However, what I can conclude, you are exclusively constantly dealing with feelings and relations between politicians and political parties, worrying about the relationship between our coalition. I have the impression that you should take much more care of yourself and within yourself, and especially of what I've been through in the debate and in the name of the club, it's not the only one. I'm just hoping you'll find a solution if there's going to be a need and if you happen to be in a position to appoint a prime minister, find someone else. Also from the ranks of those who have signed, there is no colleague here, her sin is the sin of inaction. Don't I really understand anything? Her sin, colleague Dark Taritash, I have no intention of calling out or calling out to someone she doesn't have, but here I simply must, her sin is a sin of indemnity. So what? What's not done? It's associated with your president's statement. There's no reform. Then I support reform when I go there to paint, so now I'm talking to each other, no matter what. I apologize to my colleague Glasovac, simply for accusing you of writing on Barry's party order, my colleague Bernardiæ pardon, apparently my colleague Bauk for being surprised by him, but I still considered him president of the club to care more about his personal dignity. That's why he's obviously not here right now because he just can't listen, etc. My colleague Curaj only listed some numbers, they're just pieces of what he did. Here in the Parliament, we have discussed many times the legislative proposals that should have been put forward so that there can be reform at all, that it can be started at all. Professional education, seeking dual education, is what our economy needs. I believe you're aware that we're a small country, with few inhabitants, surrounded by competition in an economic sense of extremely large, strong and only knowledge of electronic literacy, that's what can draw us forward, that's what we have to strive for. Furthermore, a lot of you here in the assembly that you're from the education sector, I appreciate, I understand, but I'm not. I'm a graduate forestry engineer and I know something, something small. My mom was a late teacher, a teacher, and I know how demanding work is, a responsible job, and what I went through through school alone. But you will allow me, my personal perhaps I am wrong, but you have disappointed me. You who are these professions and if you were to discuss it in such a way you would even dare not know, I would like you to deliberately fabricate some data, some facts you're not but to say because you should know a certain system. And in the end, you won't be able to destabilise this government, because it turns out that the minister or hers, initiating her shift, will be a collateral sacrifice in that part. I'd also like to ask you, see that there aren't many, not formally it doesn't matter, but how do you feel? You're comfortable, are you comfortable standing behind such a document that you know for yourself, you don't believe in it entirely, you don't believe. And why is that? I'm not attributing myself to some supernatural ability, but I have a sense of your verbal communication and your view tells me quite the opposite. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u182036	Thank you. We have replicas. Dear colleague Sabina Vosovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u182037	I feel good, a little tired, it wasn't hard for me to let you down, it's important to me that these messages from teachers and teachers arrive all night, and we haven't disappointed our parents and their parents because they're seeing us as their speakers tonight. Now, you believe it or not, what bothers me a little is that this attempt to destabilise the government is actually a good thing when you seek the confidence of the minister in any case that is an attempt to destabilise the government. But you accused us of it and we as an opposition as nothing we've ever done constructively. Look, I got to tell you something, it's just a lie. We supported almost all the laws that came on behalf of the Minister's proposal, from the Law on Professionals because of the Centre of Competence, the Law on Foreign Professional Qualifications, the Law on Student Work, but you did not support any of our amendments, I am sorry, and they were constructive.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u182038	Thank you. My colleague Batinić's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u182039	I apologize in a loud voice, perhaps you didn't understand me, I said when I spoke about your motives of starting the initiative completely legitimate, business, political, but you are sending a political message. And as an opposition, I didn't look at those laws from the minister's portfolio, but in general, all the laws that this government has proposed. From tax laws, from a number of others, if you supported it for reasons that you disagree with them in principle or because the opposition is your right. But what did you produce as an opposition? Which proposal was worth accepting, that's what I'm talking about. I gave myself a hard time, I looked. Every law, your legal proposal, amendments and additions, was written in a way that was unacceptable, politically unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u182040	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'd like to ask you nicely, don't enter your word for your colleague as he speaks. We have the next line. Dear colleague Domagoj Hajdukovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u182041	Thank you very much. Mr. Batinic, we're really getting into the safe house. So your political assessment is whether you want to back something up or not, a political assessment. If we had written before legal proposals, 25 of them all so that they could be unacceptable to me, it's certain. Here's another word I don't have to use any rough ones. And no, I'm not embarrassed. You know how I feel? That's what people say, it's a new coin, I feel embarrassed, I'm ashamed that you have to defend things like this. And what if someone who has betrayed their voters and the platform on which he was elected I am now listening to political lessons, and there is no reform, here I am telling you. It's not the party president who has to tell you, it's me who comes from the profession. And don't ask me, so ask the House, you don't have to go any further. I ask them. And as for the school in Lower Miholjc, so here you are in power along with HDZ, your HNS, and what you've been waiting for so far, are the founders of the county, so you haven't promoted that status, so where are the projects of colleagues you've been boasting so much about.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u182042	Thank you. My colleague Batinić's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u182043	Thank you. Col. Hajdukovic, 2015, 100, over 110,000 votes preferential only, on the list far more. 2016 A hundred and a few thousand less turnout, less total. HNS brought to the coalition a joint vote of 11 terms, we got 9, I think so much about how you feel that we let you down, betrayed you. The question is, who failed and betrayed the voters, that's the question? And I'd say first of all that you, your way of looking at politics is different from ours. We take politics as a tool to do something good for people, what we promised them, to our voters, and that's what we're doing right now. Not with you, but in another coalition. There's a difference.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u182044	Thank you. Next debate, dear colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u182045	Thank you very much. I've been asking questions through replicas, and I'm going to ask them again, and now I'm going to ask the minister. I set them up to the prime minister, he didn't give an answer, of course. That it's a shame for the prime minister to defend the minister is that I said from Galopagos through China, America, no country in the world, if you know the ministers must specify where the reform of education is successfully conducted by a political party that has 1% support or a minister or a minister without any electoral legitimacy that paints the assembly here and boasts that she has come here to defend, and I haven't heard a single answer yet. Namely, you seem to be trying, you're trying to be a world phenomenon and it's not weird that, that here means what you're doing isn't a reform, this is a pillisation, this is what everyone from the education of people tells me, of course, that, that pills, some countries, now means controlled release of children, we have an example of France that controls because of electromagnetic radiation and other things, and it should be on the sides of the Ministry of Science, on the first pages, it's educational, but it's hidden, of course, that there's prevailed interests. I am expected to say to the Croatian public what the piar pays, here we see here with you, what you pay is huge money you invest that you will say on which page the European Commission is missing, I have delivered to you, I have never seen you praised by the European Commission, nor is it who noticed from all the people that I have consulted with. You participate in, you are essentially the person who is from the street, with the protest of Minister Barisic i.e. in the street protests, you were there to tear down whether the minister, former Minister Barisic, Pavu, when you were also warming up unions so that somehow, you trade unions in school so that somehow you could return the rating to the HNS, so when you overheated the whole situation you left the unions alone, it lasted a month, never a longer strike, of course it was a huge pressure on both parents and people. and the educators. If your goal was just the rating, the HNS, the Vrdoljak HNS, then it's really one missed, missed this logical course that it's been missed, it's colleagues and aware when they ask me how I feel, I feel great, how do you feel, how do you feel, how do those who have run against you, your coalition partners from Bandic's party feel? Well, the prime minister feels uncomfortable, so as your HDZ colleagues feel about you, ask them. Tell us in the end one very important question, I won't owe you much, but I have to ask a question, tell us which white world reviewers have reviewed your curricula documents, come out once, and I'm particularly interested in Croatian history, and especially in the home war, which the world's reviewers have made, according to them, with their scissors and their skirt, you haven't said a word about it, not only now, you've been asked a number of questions, not just me, but people in science, education, you never answered that. Of course the key question is, I will once again ask what appeared in the media, you are, I don't know how much you've included, how much money has gone to go there that, where in my Sinj, and throughout the Republic of Croatia students ride on buses that are older than 30 years old. which you also co-finance, you don't control where the buses upstairs, the kids can't get off those buses, you'd love to, you saw that news, I even wrote to the government, you could ask yourself, where parents in fear send their kids to burn down on that bus from school, from home, from home to school. Only in Sinj is it in the last 3 months in the area of Transport Makarska i.e. Transport Sinj has burned down 4 buses full of children or students, so get a little involved in that part of how our students travel, how they live, and talk about pills, so many schools don't have water in the toilets, many schools don't have chalk and sponge, but the important thing is that you've got pills no matter what the European Commission warns that there are no conditions, that there are no conditions for the implementation of these, as they said, ambitious reforms. I can see that, I don't know how you would comment on this, for example. The director of the Ruđer Boskovic Institute at a conference held in Berlin in 2013, he is now your secretary, in his presentation, secretary of the ministry, in his presentation, so much to praise the Republic of Croatia that he has backward not knowing how much, but he is your secretary. This man spoke in an inappropriate dictionary of the Republic of Croatia, about Croatian scientists, so he did enormous damage because he compared the Croatian state i.e. Croatian scientists, Croatian entrepreneurs compared as what, I'll say now, que klux clan, where even, I can show you pictures when they show up here in the Republic of Croatia dark-road people, when other nationalities appear that we are such that we simply want to lynch them, there are people around you, you don't know who did reviews, classrooms are literally waterless, buses that you subsidize, the ministry, worse, older than 30 years old, prehistory, for historical movies great, but for the transport of children, the code you put on them an atomic bomb, control little things, you're a minister, it's not to laugh, buses upstairs ministers where students are transported, are familiar with that? And answer the question where you're missing it, who's missing you? And you even have this presentation about Berlin where on the second one is presented this, where a scientist who can't in the Republic of Croatia realizes his ideas, spins at the stake, I can show you those pictures, I thought to print, but he's a secretary of the ministry, I'd like to talk about it, but most important are my children, children above all else. Tomo Anticic, so we don't forget to say the name. It's funny to them, of course, that the minister is funny, 1 o'clock and 30, she took a picture with the PR sitting there, instead of paying for quality transportation to passengers, not to trade with bus owners, with that money that she gives for the PR, you've seen the articles, here, tell me, who paid so many articles to praise, and that's the fact that it's a lie. That's a lie. At 1:30, here, look, I'll let them go, Vice President, if they talk freely, but louder, you can turn the microphone on. You can have the microphone, go ahead. And then my colleague Batinic asks how you feel. You know how I feel when she sees what the subsidized minister, the student transport ministry, when every month a bus that's over 30 years old burns, and I warn the government of Andrej Plenkovic and does nothing. It is a constructive proposal, where the worse buses, of the 30 years that subsidized and state, ministry and county and local self-government, make fun of our students and parents. Where classrooms don't have chalks, where they don't have water connected, where they don't have electricity, where they drop roofs, they're your classrooms today where I come from. That's why people go to other countries, that's why. That's why they're leaving. But the important thing is that there's a PR, it's the most important thing and that this PR is now laughing and that he's telling the minister what he said, well, number one, number one, she's raising her hands, fingers, every honor, and that's the only story that's past this minister. The Minister who took the longest strike, basically initiating the strike, retreated, left the people alone. to raise the HNS 1%. [[Upadica Brkić: I thank my colleague.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u182046	We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, a respected colleague of Stjepan Curaj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u182047	Thank you, dear Vice President. Now, I don't know if it's true. 172, 174, but as it seems, none of the 31 authorised applicants are present at the session. I don't know if it's so businessly arranged that we continue the debate, but of the 31 signatories of this initiative who are authorized to represent as proposings, no one is here. With all due respect to a colleague of the Voice who's been here since the beginning, but of all these heroes there's no one here.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u182048	Just a little buddy, we'll check it out now. I'm setting a break to 1 hour and 45 minutes. It's 1:00.23. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we continue our plenary session. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING AT 01.45 HOURS]] We have replicas, dear colleague Sonja Cikotic. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u182050	Dear colleague Bulj, I have listened carefully to your debate and I wonder if you may have heard of Minister Blaženka Divjak calling about the Srebrenica Children's Hospital? In fact, while I was Deputy Minister of Regional Development, I know that the project of the Children's Hospital of Srebrnjak, the Centre for Competences for Transfusion Medicine, has been negotiated and implemented and prepared within the framework of the Ministry of Science and Education. So I'm wondering if you've heard of the Secretary of Staff reporting on this matter, since it's the Center of Competence for Transfusion Medicine?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u182051	Thank you. Buddy Bull, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u182052	Of course, 60 million euros were commended by the director of Noglo. The money he received from the eu funds, however, is also a fact that a coalition partner from the minister. Bandic replaced Dr. The leg but silences the minister, the minister is silent, no matter what the project was carried out by the Ministry of Science. But since the Ministry of Science spent it, then it would be a turn for the minister to be obvious, but there's still time. I can see that she threw away a photo I don't know in the last few minutes how the assembly is empty so she has electoral legitimacy and since she takes care of European funds, since she cares about the rating of the HNS and the pills because it's huge money pills, first of all, how high they are, it's questionable now. But the question is what the minister has taken and that it has come to light on Dr. Bandic's shift. Legs.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u182053	Thank you. Next replica, dear colleague of Christmas Macar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u182054	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Bull. I'm sure if the minister were to take care and provide transportation for the students and make contracts so that these situations don't happen. I believe that you agree, too, because you know for a fact that it is not in her jurisdiction, that contracts are concluded and contracted to transport the county, that the state provides money for the transport of students, but this is in the jurisdiction of the regional self-government units. And I'm sure there are those counties that are more concerned, and there are those like yourself who say where you're not, so I'm pretty sure that maybe you're going to make some other suggestion or take more care of yourself, or that it really goes down to intelligence and that ministry so that they understand some things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u182055	Thank you. Answer me, Comrade Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u182056	It's all clear to me here, but the fact is that the centralized means of transporting students and students are what the subsidized ministry is going to the founders of the county. However, I already informed the government three months ago about this problem and the resolution ministry and the Ministry of Interior and the inspection that made the finding to the MUP. But the MUP didn't do anything and still the buses up there. Imagine the minister is obliged to check what is with the students she is the one who decentralises money, no matter who chooses in the public procurement of traffickers. But the fact is, the buses went up last year, 10 buses with full students. The only way these students didn't burn down with the driver's head. That's a huge problem, Minister. Don't let a big tragedy happen. You're responsible for the students.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u182057	Thank you. Next debate, respected colleague Sonja Cikotic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u182058	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I am extremely sorry that the prime minister is not here tonight that he is not here because since he was appointed as head of a special expert commission for the implementation of the Education Strategy, he would certainly have to be here to defend what is happening in the context of the educational reform and everything that has been missed. What you constantly state as a defence minister is the use of European funds. The use of European funds is otherwise very well known to me, Croatia is among the last members who are not very successful after the withdrawal of European funds, and this is particularly true of funds managed by the Ministry of Science and Education. You've just got a contracted asset now, and I have to say that when you talk about all these millions, I have to say that millions mean nothing but what you get is value for money. As you know, there are a number of construction works that have gone up, so we're going to have a problem with the consumers, we're going to have a problem with the long procurement procedures. Obviously, you yourself at the ministry have a problem with public procurement procedures. Educational pillation itself will not solve the problem found in schools because, as far as the education pillation itself is concerned, it cannot possibly respond to the challenges that are coming to us soon and concerning the 4th Industrial Revolution. I especially want to say that when I looked at the state budget of the Ministry of Science and Education, I noticed that only 60 million kuna was intended for investment in primary and secondary education, but I also noticed that there is one item intended for a public-private partnership of 23 million kuna for 2020 and each one behind in the same amount. Also, by reviewing the regular public procurement advertiser, I noticed that the Regional Energy Agency of Northwestern Croatia issued a call about a month ago for a million kunas, that they needed a service to develop documentation for the implementation of schools under the model of the public private partnership, meaning you had foreseen money, and they do not yet know in any way the public private partnership and should do this public private partnership, or should create a sign of documentation about how this model will be implemented and therefore they do not have their own resources or counties that intend to do so, but the Northwestern Energy Agency has opened a tender and a single company has chosen, the only one that has met the conditions, I must say that the criteria were very interesting because they were just looking for experience not in implementing a private partnership but in the implementation of public private partnership projects in the domain of private education, which is foreseen by your budget, 23 million dollars in private schools in all of RH. As far as the education pillation itself is concerned, it will not solve the problems of schooling, the tablets are intended for games and entertainment, and that is how you confirmed it yourself, when he started experimental work, means when the reform took place in only 10% of the schools, the tablets were obtained for all the students in the class, but here, after the first year of the classroom, as far as I heard and how much information I had, only 4-5 tablets are obtained depending on how much class. Is that some ex-post mind with the budget money and how we're going to justify using it means that every child has a pill, and then later on, only 4 to 5, I see the Ministers that it's very funny to you, but here's what we're going to do. As far as you're concerned, you've announced a very high-level piranha check on the school's diplomas. You know what would be interesting to announce, how do principals hire people in schools when it comes to replacements? So when it comes to replacements, the director has someone, as I say, discretionary rights and a person who usually comes to exchange when that competition is called after 60 days of replacements, that person is chosen to work in that workplace, so there are no criteria. As far as the school boards are concerned, we suggested the same thing when it was at 7 months or 6 months, and it was voted in 7 months during football euphoria when the Republic of Croatia was at the very top means world championship, the Law on Education and Education in primary and secondary schools. Yes, we suggested that the number of politicians in the school boards be reduced, you did not, you refused that amendment and you left the same number of politicians so that they could continue to politicise the system of education without any criteria and none, so there was no depolitical that was foreseen by the Public Administration Reform Action Plan 2017-2020 as a horizontal topic. As far as the education inspection itself is concerned, there is no movement, and certain principals treat the school staff, teachers, as if they have a purchase contract with the school, not just as if they were currently selected. The most common thing for you would be after this failed experiment to withdraw and would also like to look back on the science and education portfolio, you know that now a single competition has been opened for innovation vouchers that is intended for scientific research institutions, it has been announced by the Ministry of Economy, it was on public consultation, probably you as a resolution ministry could and should have made observations on it, there is a project of 50 million kuna, and there are envisaged support for colleges for some entrepreneur to explore something from 10,000.00 kn to 75,000.00 kn, so I ask you as a scientist, which, which experiment, which this experiment, which this study can make a serious institution, what kind of resources would be scientific research institutions, for 10 to 75.00 kn, is it for all or for all of us here 50 million kuna, because you know that our use of funds, which means that we will not be able to make use the same amount of money, because it is not so easy for the first time to be able to do so much. RH, there is currently erosion in the Republic of Croatia, there is an erosion of society, and this can only be stopped through the education system and through changes in the education system. Today, when someone comes after your reform, so I don't know, here's to having spacers come and spend and ask, what's it called, what's the meaning of our education system, they'd say that the point is that we're all doctors of science, docents in colleges because only those kids, they don't believe, get praises, only those kids are successful, and those kids who say they don't have enough talent for some of these things, the way that system is worth it, they feel bad at school, and that's how we dim them, and that way we don't give them equal opportunities. I would also ask that, since you have introduced that Law on Education, Education and Education in Primary and Secondary Schools, rewarding those who participate in EU projects at 30% of the time they are engaged in this project to tell me that I have asked you three, four questions and you have all answered negatively that not and one project cannot achieve how many of them this teacher uses that right.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u182059	Thank you. We have replicas, dear colleague Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u182060	Thank you very much. Comrade Cikotic, you said well that pillization absolutely does not solve anything. It would be better if the project itself instead of wind power plants that the HNS has spent quality quality and museums from our pockets from our citizens' pockets were a billion and a half kuna a year for foreign pockets, we see that it has now been reinforced since the HNS took over this resort. It would have been much better if that money had invested in schools that didn't even have asparagus on wood, had it been invested in microsolares that we suggested, and there would have been huge savings. We don't, literally today when we talk about pilling, we have classrooms that leak, which don't have a gym is unimaginable, physical education, unimaginable stuff, sponges don't have, let alone something else. Therefore, this reform is absolutely exclusively for public procurement and imagination because it is HNS's fingers involved there. When the HNS fingers are involved That job isn't clean. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u182061	Answer, colleague Chikotic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u182062	As far as schools are concerned, basic schools that heat on solid fuels are their number is I think of a 1.001 school which is the area that about 256 schools that heat on solid fuels, and also in your Split-Dalmatia County is number 37. Surely in such sunny, and these counties should use the potential we have from renewable energy sources. Why doesn't it seem? So here we are hoping that the minister is preparing a new financial period of 2021. – 2027. I would personally like the committee, the Assembly Committee to present it in order to see what priorities we will invest in the new financial period and whether it will re-spread to 101 goals or whether we will have 3 things concrete to do and thus actually bring Croatia into the 21st century.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u182063	Thank you. Next replica of the esteemed colleague Marko Sladolev.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u182064	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, you spoke about our amendment to reduce politicians on school boards and should, so last month we saw a fine conflict between HNS, Minister and Club Milan Bandic, and this very amendment would prevent political school boards from being staffed because, as you know, only the City of Zagreb pays compensation to politicians on school boards and these fees are not small, they are about 400 kuna after meeting on the school board. And now calculate how many schools there are in the City of Zagreb, how many politicians and how the mayor Bandic rules the City of Zagreb.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u182065	Thank you. Reply from colleague Chikotic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u182066	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I see the minister is having fun in these late nights, that she's funny, together and her associates, the only vice president of the government is serious. Normally, it is serious because it is a serious portfolio, and it is a party that has only 1% of the support of Croatian citizens and this reform has not actually begun. There is an information work to be done, and it should be done to restore dignity to teachers and children. And citizens' trust in institutions should be restored. But you keep laughing, this looks extraordinary, extremely ugly on the outside, probably all the cameras are filming you, and tomorrow you'll probably get into some newspapers, and people will say what this is, is really these people leading education and how we, who we kids trust. And it means children, those who need our care.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u182067	Thank you. We move on to the next debate, dear colleague Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u182068	The Honorable Chairman asked the people who follow my page, what they think about whether the minister should stay or not, and the result is that 79% is for her to go and 21% to stay. That's right, that's what the voice of the people says. I asked people why they thought you should go or stay. Says Allen Heglen, the puppet government does not have legitimacy, says due to domestic electoral laws that allow everything from defections, chips, etc., all in order to preserve their chairs that bear various benefits. He says further, Amanita one from Zapresic, because the children needed did not receive an assistant in the classroom, the proposal for a lecture of paedophilic and incestuous content of an inappropriate age of a child, did not introduce the school's study cabinets for books, so children suffer from small spines from the amount of books. And this is a very interesting thought, he says, from "The School of Life" to children, the higher school was a teacher's strike. Then says Yaksha Bashura, the HNS's to leave the government and disappear from the scene, if at all possible. He says further, Horvat Jozo says, the minister who destroyed the school and who introduces a lecturing of pedophile content should at least be replaced, and if he asked me, they would play piano together with Plenkovic. You see, people believe that you should play music. She says further, I give her the right to insist on cleaning her waist from the fakes, the rest is pretty bad because she either has a distraction for counselors or she's too arrogant to admit bad moves. Says George Grubic, the puppet greatest, now says one ugly word, the party of the HNS that will disappear forever for them and HDZ, a small baby. Says Mateo Alilovic, we educate children in Germany and Ireland. Says Seba Djekic, this is interesting, says let it stay, I think it can only come worse, not better. Here's one that has nice words for you, and Borna Iskovic had the same opinion, he says let it stay, can only come worse. Here, if you don't think that citizens' opinion is unison, you've managed to share the public. Now, this is an interesting word, says Annabelle Li, for her term of office, I was cut off from working with students with difficulties for approximately 500 kn, to strike now, how many days? To pay me up, read, return the part taken away on three occasions for a total of cca 300 kn. So I'm down to 200. I don't think a woman has any idea how much effort, strength, will and nerve it takes to teach kids with difficulties. There are no textbooks for these same students yet. He dulls children with pills, and we stare at computers for hours, solving a bunch of unnecessary tasks, to win over as performers of some virtual badges and feel like idiots. Then, she introduced new experimental courses of dual education that, in two years' time, no textbooks have been created, so we're getting along as we know it. Teachers in dual education cut mathematics to just one year, and that's like an election module because obviously teachers don't need mathematics, so I don't count on it anymore. Again, she says, I can't say she didn't do any good, but personally I'm more touched by this bad, I'm disappointed. Now, this is an important thing, she announced a reduction in paperwork, and I'm still spending hours and hours on such nonsense, and the rest of the state still thinks I'm only working three, four hours a day and half a year on holidays. Drazen Bilic, I wish she were a minister in my day, here, has various opinions, but unfortunately hers, most of it is a negative attitude. I was trying to be objective, I mentioned the comments of each other, and now I'm going to say my opinion. My opinion is that there are good things, one of the good things is that they were checking out diplomas. The problem, however, is if you quit one person with a forged degree in one school, then you can go look in another. By my judgment, every diploma should be checked by employment. As soon as a man comes looking for a job at school, let's see what a diploma is. The second thing I would like to say is that ultimately, the pay for teachers is increased, however, here is an explanation of the lady's not in full amount, but as it is said, better than nothing, unfortunately there has been a problem with teaching to make it happen, however, even when we put it all aside, we are left with the problem of people of non-teaching staff in schools who have poor salaries. That's the problem you should be getting rid of. I ask you, Minister Divjak, to somehow act on raising wages and cooks, cleaning women, accountants, etc. in schools. Also, what else would I point out as a problem? Well, that's the classic problem, that you teach students nothing about the process of making money, the role of the central bank, teach them how interest is calculated, and don't tell them in the math class that money for paying interest has never been created, that all the money is debt, etc., that the debts in total are technically invaluable and that therefore the debt of all the countries in the world that have accepted such a model is growing no matter how much its residents, or their inhabitants, have worked and tortured themselves. So, what do you say? One of my pains is red tape. I think you've buried professors with bureaucracy, if you can't already raise their salary, cut their jobs. Reduce their paper business. You'll make it easier for teachers and teachers to live, it's my appeal to you and, well, it's more or less that. And you all know, folks, the party's about to be over. Gentlemen of the CNS, it's still a little time, time's running out, time's up, time's up, there the hell, jump on the jump, the election's coming. I don't know how you're gonna sit in those chairs again. I know you're optimistic and you're hoping for the best, but folk wisdom teaches us to prepare for the worst scenario, that's my recommendation. Think about continuing your career. I wouldn't be surprised if you were waiting for great functions in the energy sector, but we'll see about that. Time will show, my people. And if wages are good, and they're not good, but you don't have a big salary, I'm aware of that, and it's simple, the whole system is upside down. Of course, someone who has a salary of $3,000 will say the minister has a big salary, but compared to other countries, unfortunately small and keep in mind that these HDZs run the game, they give foreign creditors 40 billion kuna a year. You know what kind of money that is? Ask yourself how long he goes to education and how much he goes to foreign creditors. If it were up to me, I'd reroute, I'd pay you more, and I'd twist the pipe to the lenders. And he'd give the professors unskilled staff. But that's the problem of running the country from the outside, that we all have to rebel together and say, let's challenge that system. There's no other way, my people, otherwise we'll always have small wages. And watch this absurd. We're like these enemies, and the same system is pushing us all, these foreign creditors, they milk our country like a cow, and we're, without, without swearing in our pocket, or we and what swear we have, but ordinary citizens, unfortunately, barely putting an end to the end. Well, if there's anything he can do, I think that's it. I'd like to thank you and colleagues Curaja during the debate, he mentioned an expression, I forgot what he said, so I went to Google, how, if you can remind me, from philosophy you mentioned an expression. ... Now, he was an interesting fellow Curray, and here's something I learned new, but I think we as a society need to learn a lot more, primarily the process of making money. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] If we don't get over it, we'll stick to the egg and these cheap pills. That's it, that'll be our reach, my people. Well, good luck to you all. Have a good night, rest, get some sleep. And don't worry about the chair until the next election, HDZ will keep you eye-eyed, Plenkovic won't give you away, you can sleep quietly tonight, don't be worried. Neither Mr. Churi the same, we sleep peacefully, and I sleep peacefully until the next election, and then as they say, then everyone is to himself, then it's actually the day of judgment for us politicians who go where. So I keep you all happy, and I hope tomorrow will be something better than it was today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u182069	Thank you. Final word on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, esteemed colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u182070	Thank you very much. I see in 2.13 minutes that the target means the one who manages the agenda, as the clock says, is a very important subject, so it's a recall, no matter what we're not signatories to the Most. But the fact is that here the proponent who is, here we have two that I commend, otherwise the tribal is really more because I think when asked for resignation and explained the tribal would be more, but regardless of which I think my minister is here, however, the fact that there's not even the main coalition partner who's going to give it to the minister that's going to let the HDZ of course go to the election as it goes. So on that side, the minister does not have to look after even those who are concerned, or those who asked before her resignation, and that's Milan Bandic's party he probably won't come or do anything, but mostly ministers can be calm, the MOST club will support this proposal for your shift if you simply haven't answered a single question other than to boast through the PR agency, I don't know how much money you spend, but it's a good thing that's true to let go in public. However, the truth is that you are so praised by the European Commission for the pills while in other countries the tablets are removed as an auxiliary agent, as a means of, say, an example of France, you can check why it is done, you are more professional and you know why. Of course, there was a big problem here tonight that ministerial assistants were laughing all the time, mocking, mocking parliamentary deputies and MPs, which is not good. I think it's good to be happy, calm and safe in your chair, but all night long to laugh so that the chairman could take a few times to warn them if it's just an ugly picture to the council representatives. What kind of ministers are they, I know that you might want to be second, that there are more who are supporting you, but because of the greater calm and peace you feel, did you force Andrej Plenkovic, who must not write to you, he will support you now until the election, that is a fact. And in all the games of these strikes that you have encouraged to raise the rating to the CNS in the end, you have lost little control because teachers are full of more wisdom and overplay and I would like to solve basic problems in school. Here's a little while ago a colleague of Sladolev mentioned the school boards that the founders give, we have funny things, we have things where the principal goes to them and the kid goes to the same school, so when he gets a lower grade, his kid passes the teacher into the second grade, and thousands of I think there's a problem with the appointment of the director and management system to school. But the worst part is that many schools don't have examples of sports halls, they don't have enough chalk, they don't have sponges to wipe the board and stuff, they sneez the roofs. No, there's no other way to use that money, which we could have had not on solid heat. In my county, I'm only 37 schools, and I'm sorry that that money isn't directed, so at least we can give the basics of the conditions that I can do without the rain. Here in Sinj I was giving the amendment we have a sports hall school where three high school centers are essentially the only hall now we have a new city hall school where children have to play with umbrellas and boots as much as it sneezes that hall, you better accept it. When you come to Sinj look and you'll see it, of course the mayor and the county won't tell you if they're the main undertakers of people's emigration, here's 100,000 just from the Dalmatian mountain, our schools are getting more and more empty. And it's not just your problem, I can't say it's just your problem, but the fact that your indifference that you've shown these days where you're boasting that this reform is almighty, that it'll all be solved, but you can't party with 1%, you've brought Plenkovic and HDZ into the corner and he can't but with you, it's just like that. All the chips that were he picked up and therefore you have peace and peace, HDZ will support you. Therefore, here I can finally say that I am extremely dissatisfied with the unserious, laughing, disdaining of the minister... The PR team. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u182071	I'd like to thank my colleague Bulj. On behalf of the Club of HNS Representatives, a respected colleague, Milorad Batinic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u182072	Thank you, Vice President. Here's just a brief review of the debates that were. In previous debates, I did expect, however, that because of the subject of education which is extremely complex, much has been done in the past three years, and I can understand that some colleagues may not have prepared themselves or were neither willing nor meaningful, but, although this is a political pay phone and we tolerate a lot of things that are not said, I did expect far more. So here's very short, as far as colleagues Cikotic and JPP are concerned, the implementation of the JPP means the founders are the ones who are starting the project. There is a Law on the JPP to be followed, the Ministry of Economy then, the Ministry of Finance or, specifically, the Government approves after the valorisation of the project. And these funds that are in the budget are for funding projects according to the model of the public private partnership of the Varazdin County of the town of Koprivnica, that's it. As far as the school boards are concerned, I expected it to be a very simple subject, but they remember that politicians are equally from 7 school board members on average, 3 that the founder or let's call it a policy, 2 that the teacher's council, one member that the board of employees and one select parents, means the ratio in the school board is 4:3 at the expense of politics. Teachers, teachers and teachers got official status, so much for dignity. What we mentioned was not very different, it's not complex matter, it's very simple, it's known who the founders are, they can be local self-government and regional self-government, or county, and in their jurisdiction is building, upgrade, organization, so they get decentralised funds for decentralised functions. The fact is that many local self-governments also pay the part up to 5 km away from paying, it's a matter of personal level, so they don't organize transportation, they don't make contracts, etc., etc. As far as roofs are concerned, founder of local regional self-government, what is certainly the minister is also here in the assembly talking about the project with the World Bank where, where it will certainly be included, I hope that it will go as soon as possible, where some of the funds will be able to focus on hardware to say, meaning buildings, building, construction, most of it will be for equipment and making and curricula as far as day-round teaching is concerned. Equally, what's ahead of us is the financial perspective of '21-'27. where I'm sure we won't miss what we missed in '14-20, that we didn't include anything from building to building schools, means the school system is completely neglecting. And finally, once again, I will repeat the HNS Club cannot accept, of course, we will be negatively obvious against this requirement because, first of all, it is not a legitimate one, but the goal is to destabilise the government, the destruction of all processes that are conducted not only at the level of the government, primarily at the level of the Ministry of Education, of course it does not stand, but for this reason we will not accept this request, and I believe that none of the coalition partners will fall for this cheap SDP policy game because simply different, with due respect to many colleagues and colleagues within the SDP who do the loyalty of the parties have to support it, I believe it will not pass. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u182073	Thank you. Final word on behalf of the SDP, dear colleague Domagoj Hajdukovic, please welcome colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u182074	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, I can start where my colleague Batinic ended up, if someone is defending this out of loyalty, then someone, if someone attacks, is defending it. I come from this sector, I have some experience in education as I said, unfortunately 8 years old. I'm not in that sector, maybe eight long years because it really filled me with working with young people and kids, but I'm telling you, 8 years old. I don't have a job in this sector, if I were to come back, to enter the conference room tomorrow with an e-mail address, that would be a little weird to me because I'm used to carrying always a big book with me. What's to meet me? According to my colleagues and colleagues, a lot of paperwork continues to be a frontal course, and logistics conditions that are not in line with the 21st century remain all the challenges I faced 8 years ago. still unadjusted programmes for gifted children still unadjusted programmes for those who require more attention and still unadjusted adult programmes continue to have insufficient correlation between programmes and continue to list. I've got a lot of plastic examples of this, from Honors, that made us get to the correlations that eventually turned out to be crazy because the programs just weren't even until 8 years ago. After I left the system, I believe that all the problems I left behind would be to welcome me. And if I tell you that in one field school where I worked literally one foot hold the door, one hand lay the oven and pray to God that the stove doesn't fall apart so that our school doesn't burn down, and the third you hold the ceiling and pray to God that it doesn't fall on the students and now we're talking about the 21st century school. So when we talk about the alleged failures of the former government and before, when we talk about alleged failures in the financial planning of 2014, I can't help thinking that it's what people who were at the same time in the decision-making position, not in this resort, but in the decision-making position, and that's why these arguments were deplaced to me. Those arguments that are,... and you had an economy so we saw the same results, but that's why the SDP is as responsible as the HNS. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] But when we can talk about the results, let's say the reports of the European Commission, then we see what they're talking about. So, I don't think there's any lauda reform, there aren't any, they're finding the actual state, that we're trying to do something that's true, how we do it, now that's already, that's another thing. When we talk at the end of the day and I will end with it, about those who need to bear this reform, and these are like all in this system, always the individuals who are committed to their work. When we see how much they are appreciated, when we see how much behind them is the Ministry of RES, or the Minister, and when we see how much valorizing their work is, I will repeat 129 kuna and 28 limes. It's a shame to me. And tell people who are so dedicated and who have invested so much of their knowledge, expertise and enthusiasm in a project that will be praised by someone your party of HNS portrays as a scientist and us as politicians. The one that the minister is a politician, whether he wants it or not. By accepting the post, he became a politician, in this case a politician. End of story, point. And to talk about politicians and scientists, I think it's also declassified. That is why the Prime Minister is also a politician even though he is a master of science or anyone else who works with honor in his profession. We've all been something before politics, and we'll all be later. It's just a matter of how we get out of politics. Honorably, raised heads with a clue that really did something and left specific and will affect the future of our country, which education is definitely or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u182075	Thank you. Final word on behalf of the Government, Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Predrag Štromar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u182076	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear MPs, I wanted to address all of those parliamentary MPs, all 31 who signed the motion to recall Minister Divjak, but I can't address it, I can only address you now 8 of them here in the hall and I want to say that the Government of the Republic of Croatia supports Minister Divjak because she is doing a great job. For two and a half years, she is a minister, she introduced a reform after 25 years of various attempts to prepare these reforms, but then it's not yet time, so next year, then the next one, and so all governments stalled. This government has decided to go into reform, reform is in schools. We lost no idea what, 7-8 hours now in a debate that doesn't even matter who's talking about last year's snow. In fact, teachers have increased salaries, teachers are satisfied, students work and learn in a new way. Parents are satisfied, 81% of parents support this reform. I don't know when there was something in Croatia, some political decision supported more than 80% except for the first one in the '90s when we were left alone. And I ask you to vote with your mind the day after tomorrow. Tomorrow? That you are voting with your mind tomorrow, and reason suggests that Minister Divjak has excellent success in this reform and support her to remain a minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u182077	Thank you. Minister Divjak, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u182078	Here I thank you Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. And I thank you all for the MPs and the MPs you've stayed here for up to two hours and 31 minutes. I especially thank those who have been able to see the whole of this debate and admit that the school reform is good. I also thank all those who have pointed out our shortcomings and given constructive criticism. I can even understand those who were looking for hair in an egg and that's what I call politics. Not politics, such a man is called a politician who deals with politics, but one who deals with finding hair in an egg or one who inaccessiblely plantes, twists facts and says completely irrelevant things is politics. I'm going to use these few minutes just to go through the most important things and possibly answer some of the questions that have been asked. It is true that the strike was the result of insufficient investment in the education and education system over many years, and in particular here I quote those who launched the strike, and these are trade unions, they pointed out that the lagging of wages in the education and education system is therefore the main cause of this being the biggest reduction in the period from 2012 to 2014 and the taxation can be checked all together. Of course, this is seen in the state budget which at that time at the place of pay fell, as it is now seen that in this period over the last three years the position of wages is growing by 19%, 19%, and total means each teacher will receive a 1/4 higher salary, which actually means that the average wages will be around 8,000 kuna net. Which isn't bad. This includes, of course, non-teaching staff involved in this wage growth. Clearly, education workers have justifiably complained about poor school conditions, poor school conditions, but what we have definitely shown with our answer, and I am currently particularly pointing out, there have never been more investment in education than in the past few years. Not only have we invested 2 billion kunas in the Kuricular Reform, but we have invested in vocational education, and it has invested in higher education and science. A total of 4 billion, 4 billion kunas were withdrawn from the European Funds. Anyone can ask how long it was before, negligible. Of course, when you're withdrawing 4 billion kunas, when you're withdrawing 100 million kunas that there are dangers that you're going to be wrong somewhere, only when you're not doing anything wrong, now some have proven themselves great at making paper and doing nothing and they haven't answered the question why in late 2014. They haven't changed the law that would be the basis for them to introduce a curricula reform, perhaps because then they would have to do something about it. As for the other things that have been discussed here, I will now not repeat what we have done with the authority and promotion of teachers and teachers, however, I reiterate that the Government of the Republic of Croatia and I as Minister respected and the Constitution guaranteed the right to strike and, unlike some previous ministers, we have not reached out to the repressive measures of stopping the strike, which others have. Now, of course at this point that means there's compensation, but it's being compensated and it's being done because we respect that other constitutional right, and that's the right to quality education. As far as reform itself is concerned, I think we have shown both the principle of continuity and improvement and the answer to Mr. Bulju, that all the reviewers are famous and published on the web pages, I don't know if you know how to approach it, but yes, they have been published, and I've already said that to that same question, that same answer. As far as vocational education is concerned, we have a big problem here because we need to understand the difference between the reform on vocational education and the reform of general education. Professional education is not reformed in the same way as general education, you need to know that we have to do both the alignment with the labour market and through the standard of occupation, the standard of qualification, and it is investing and investing in the centres of competence and we have a billion-and-a-half kuna investment, before that we have absolutely nothing to boast about. As for the fact that the European Commission warns us that we have too few classes at school, that's true, we addressed it, we did the project and for the next period financially '21-'27. We've been working on the whole-day follow-up, this project has been made, and that's one of the reasons why I said that there are not all analyticals or that the missing analytical bases are related to the reform which is, therefore, what some think is the same way that it's postulate or axia, so that's because it wasn't there. Furthermore, as far as the pills are concerned, there's all kinds of words, all sorts of things, the pills are a small part of the investment in education, literally a smaller part, and how many misunderstandings, not to say the distortion of facts, it's hard to deny everything together, so I'm just going to say it again for a second. When it went into the experimental school program they got the money and they got the pills themselves and they were 4 kinds of pills, so, four types of pills in use and therefore we got, and therefore we got valuable information about what and how, what we did now, go to the central procurement that was conducted by the Central State Office for Central Public Procurement and were obtained the pills that are now in schools, means no public procurement, and in the first part of which you're talking about incorrectly so far, there was no and the schools were mostly getting and were mainly getting a bag of goods, so under 200,000,00 kn bought pills, so it's already a lot, I explained it more than once, but it's deliberately being distorted and explained. Likewise about the teacher's education, here's the distinguished representative Sabina Glasovac says that now we're talking about the evaluation, of course for the third time, for the third time, it just missed the first and second time when it was spoken and when it was taught about the evaluation, so we should look at it the way I said, wider. Also in this education was combined live and in virtual classrooms and the thing that some laugh out of getting badges when something is made, so I don't know how much you've worked on your own professional training and training, but I assure you that this is a way of working that is without a problem used and which I used and for which I'm sure they use and many in the Republic and are not surprised at it, and now if someone is particularly inappropriate, they can always do it live and everything will be fine. As far as research is concerned, research on how much research could be done so far, and research on how the experimental programme has gained its results and not only has gained its results but has gained what it has been introduced for, which is the practice that needs to be improved, what needs to be amended is to be complemented in order to be more prepared, better, more efficient in frontal implementation, that was the goal. The same is often mentioned research conducted by the Institute Ivo Pilar within the meaning of the Croatian Teachers' Trade Union project. I don't know how many of you have read the publication that talks about it, the final official publication that says that this research was conducted on 6000 people, 10% of them said it was related to the School of Life and you won't believe it was carried out a month after the program started, meaning not after the first semester, not at the end of the year, but a month after that and the findings, the official findings say that the recommendations are that further work in the experimental programme is being approved and that teachers are consulting, that's exactly what we did, so work in the experimental program is being honored and teachers are co-creators of the reform. What we also pointed out was that thousands of teachers, so thousands of teachers were consulted, all who worked in the experimental program also provided feedback in a quantitative, qualitative sense, as well as parents and students. These are facts and they are, of course, verifiable. As it is verifiable that, the results of the PISA cannot be linked to the reform because the results of the PISA are based on the examination, testing of our students in early 2018, and as we know, the reform was introduced in all schools a year and a half afterwards. Now, smart enough. The same goes for prom. Now, let's say a little more about the often mentioned topics how and why at prom, essay, yes or no. Yeah. Dear Representatives of the Voice, when you were in the ministry, the truth, the essay could have surrendered as an empty paper, no, you didn't get that change. For two years, it was just a situation where there was a threshold on the essay. And why did we decide to go back to what we did before? So because we couldn't, we couldn't get the information that they would say, means from the national center that it was an objective evaluation. We had a case of two students whose essays were replaced. After that, a third grader appeared who had completely different grades than the first two graders and pupils who had been enrolled in colleges on the basis of this had lost their place. Here, that was one of your situations, very significant. So I won't explain the rest. Also, you haven't noticed that the prom rule has changed, so there's no conflict with the rulebook, the graduation can be done before the school year ends. Campus Borongaj, yes, was not planned for the period 2014-20. Likewise, some mention the Lower Miholic, the Lower Miholic goes, yes, of course. The project has been provided with funds and public procurement has been completed and will soon be in the government's procedure for signing that school contract in Lower Miholjc, so I don't know why you don't think it's going to work. I'm sorry he doesn't have any colleagues, Zekanovic. Of course, he has made real accusations that are hard to believe that someone would not have used them by now if they had not explained these allegations. These allegations are all explained and let's just remember that this is not the first time that we've done it and in conclusion, the reform has succeeded, however, we really should working on a social dialogue that we understand. [[Invader Brkić: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u182079	I thank the minister. On behalf of the promoter, final word, respected colleague Sabina Vosovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u182080	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues who stayed in this assembly, respected ministers with their associates. By apologizing to the staff who had to be here by these late morning hours in the assembly, however, it really is not the fault of our representatives but of the one who determines the agenda of the session and brings us into a situation that we have to bite this long because if they think we're going to give it up unfortunately we can't, this is ours, this is our job. We believe that Minister of Science and Education Blaženko Divjak must leave. And she proved it to her own, so let's call it a final address. First, when he says that someone paid higher salaries to teachers and teachers, you gave them no higher wages. They fought for them. They fought each other in a way that they had to strike for two months. From December 10th to December 5th. 36 working days, 16 compensations for which children today, because of someone's haughtiness, have to make up for someone's neglect, not have spring holidays, cut winter holidays and go longer in summer, that's it. You gave nothing to them, they fought for it with the longest strike in Croatia's history, an educational strike, on the road where they were humiliated, where they were being bribed, where they were issued in key moments, where they were being deceived to be on their side, and then sold, that's the Croatian reality, and that's the only truth. They strike among other things because they are not satisfied with the situation in education. You say you've invested millions of dollars. I'm sorry, not that I don't see it, I mean, I see it in the budget, thank God, there's money, the budget goes better, and there's some funds. There's a lot of funds. But they strike in spite of these millions because of these millions of benefits they unfortunately do not see for themselves because what would be the reason to express between their material rights strongly and communicate with their status and interventions in the system and the way they are treated, how they are humiliated, and on the other hand they are expected to lead something that is insufficiently prepared, where they are brought de facto before the finished act. They were called on that path that their strike, which is their constitutional right, was orchestrated by a political attempt ahead of the elections, and the reasons for the strike were called psychosis with coefficients. Nice approach, I didn't hear you react to that sort of thing. Well, it says actually one teacher, and I'll quote it, and the debate about your impeachment wasn't supposed to take place. You should have resigned on the day that during the longest strike, you said you did not want to participate in the game of union and prime minister power. That's true. That's what teachers see, that's what teachers know. That day you betrayed them, if you were ever on their side. And if you were on their side and you wanted to call this reform that I call experiment successful, then I guess, as you say, you don't see the whole, you should see the whole thing, go in with the reform, go in front of all the schools, first into 47 experimental so the logic of things, that if you're preparing curricula, textbooks, take care of the material status of these people. You didn't sit down for three months, three months before the reform was introduced into all schools, they fought for their rights. you should have provided this in the 2018 budget and then in 2019. You should have convinced the prime minister that you have reform, that the government has reform, not you, and that someone should do this reform, that these people should be adequately paid. If that's not why, then respect the strategy. The strategy, you know, same in one part, you know that because you've been working on it says, increase the material status of teachers and teachers through alignment with the coefficients of others in other public services, that's exactly what the strategy says. But you care about strategy and it's your sin. You as a stateswoman, i.e. as a minister, as a person who is in the government, who has sworn here to respect, among other things, the Constitution and the law of the Republic of Croatia, must know that the documents adopted in HS are documents that you must protect, promote and respect. You're doing the opposite. You're breaking them. Not only this, but by giving up the entire curricula reform. Also, when we talk about accountability to budget money, it is your responsibility that there is serious doubt that the tender for the purchase of Microbit computers where it was requested that small tiles must be with 2 sensors, 2 sensors had only one firm and that is one that has been promoted for a long time by the entrepreneur for the Balkans area, otherwise your close associate, with whom you have often taken pictures, and still a consultant of the current president of the Republic of Croatia for digitisation and for the STEM area. But it's nothing weird. You're accusing schools. You're here accusing schools of getting laptops that were fired by screens that didn't have cameras that made it impossible for students to be available to digital content which is a very important part of the curricular reform. That's true, but you forget to say that you are the specification for minimum conditions that laptops should have prescribed you. Is it by any chance that the biggest cookie of that job at only the first stage got one company, and the company's name is NOA, led by Mr. Mario King? I hope his last name is a coincidence and he's not in any way connected to your assistant Lydia King. It's not slander, I say, I hope. No, I say, I hope it's a coincidence. But the fact is that most of the laptops that were shot by screens by the specifications that you as a ministry prescribed, and schools were getting, of the four companies, the largest part of that particular company. You spent big money just to get digital textbooks and make methodical manuals in the first phase of 25 million European money, which we could easily take and pay out of it, you managed to list 6.4 million kuna at unacceptable costs. We warned you in the House, you must not double-finance the same things, it is illegal, the EU Commission, it will not pass. And now the taxpayers are going to pay 6.4 million kuna of that gap of yours, and we're only in phase one and there, only on that item do you have to spend 74.5 million kuna. Let's move on. For the production of digital methodical manuals and in the experimental School of Life in 9 months 2018 you wasted 7.3, 32 million kuna irresponsiblely. We've funded them a lot, I said, here some have cost, some teachers, one teacher gets 200 for one, just over 200 thousand kuna. Nice job, I have to admit, and she wasn't the only one, there were a lot of them, there were a lot of them. But what's interesting? That after these funds were paid, this same assistant king who gave instructions on how to write manuals, I quote her, says, after reviewing the current versions of methodical manuals and verified contracts with authors, they were found not to meet the goals and requirements set before authors nor to represent sufficient value for money. We threw the money in the wind. They were only used in the experimental phase for one year. I fear your availability of taxpayers' and EU funds money, especially since the total cost so far is $957.44 million. Experimental phase 2018/2019 around 155 million kuna, frontal in 2019/20. pc Whatever. 685 million kuna. These are serious reasons to vote your mistrust. Serious, serious reasons. I'm done. Predictably, I didn't say spent. Finally, I'm going to read a post of one teacher since it's published in one medium, he's public, no one's going to blame me. So now you've had a chance to hear what the people's speakers say, but you can portray us as politics, as politicians, that we have some interests of our own, but that's not so. So, the violation of strategy, the non-transparent availability, the availability of money, the existence in the fight against illegalities at higher universities, universities in the Republic of Croatia, where you simply capitulate, do not react, chaos in the education system, the humiliation of teachers and teachers, the hairing of results, too much investment in the PR to appear as a positive something that is not, a form without a lot of content is not something that we should admire, especially if we are leading the Ministry of Education, and especially if as such we need to be a role model for generations that come. So I'm starting with her description and I'm experiencing you, especially when you were just visiting the school tour to see how the reform worked like it wasn't a clear message from that big protest that was sent to you from Ban Jelačić Square. Somebody's gonna say whatever that woman does, they're not doing well, and they're gonna be absolutely right. A house built on bad foundations will never be a house just ruins. Already on the first day of school in the new year, the minister began her quest for selected schools, calling the circus a tour, thinking that she was some rock star traveling from town to town with her world for the overall joy of fans. The problem is, there aren't many fans in this case. During the strike, the word dignity was running around, so now this Minister's photo shoot with teachers and students during the tour is nothing more than a slap on that dignity. And it seems it wasn't enough to get teachers to catch up on the strike, reward the privileged by justifying their absence in the first week of class and those less privileged chases at school, design the longest half-year without a break, no, now you need to further humiliate the on-call guilty. You need to get teachers to take pictures, recite nonsense about the benefits of reform and the bloody welcome freedom in planning. Now we need to create pressure, force fear and uncertainty and make us wonder when the tour is arriving in our small town. And after almost 90% of the strike, after a clear response not to reform, not to humiliate, not to exploit, that same minister asks the people who spent 35 days on a joint photo strike to publish all of this on her facebook page further humiliates, punishes and mocks those who recently strike because of the nonsense of everything she tries to sell to the public once again from the beginning. It's like nothing happened. How much ignoring do you have to be when, just a month after the biggest strike in this country's history, you've been entering classrooms among the regiments who've been asking for your resignation for months and taking pictures of you not stripping yourself of unturned and sour smiles off your face? How superficial and insensitive to the state of the field do you have to be when you tell those same people again parrotically in the face of everything that made them raise their voice? And it just took a little time to read all those messages on the banners and everyone with any intelligence it would be clear that this is not the time when teachers want to photograph with probably one of the most despised ministers in the history of this country. By the regiment and by its superiors. We lost our first term because of the bad foundations this ministry put together and it obviously wasn't enough, so we need to continue this circus, act out, play that bad role in an empty theater. Leave us alone once, unlike you, we care about what's left of your empire's ruins. Go back to your fort on the Saints and find some activity. And as a long time ago one of my students told the principal who walked in for an hour or two, and divorced some unnecessary story, now go ahead and go ahead and get us a job. So you, Minister Divjak, go and let us work once, says Tamara Soic. You know that name, included very much in groups that teachers form themselves but I must admit and give very useful advice and ideas on how to fix schooling because they really, really care and their intentions are certainly neither political nor political. Minister, you will likely be voted here, voted this trust, but understand this debate if you remain a minister, not as a bad intention, but perhaps this last warning to return to the right path, and if not this because we are looking for you then because such a decision has been made by the Croatian State through its national document, which is the Strategy of Education, Science and Technology. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u182081	Thank you. Replica, dear colleague Stephen Curaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u182082	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear colleagues, it means that if I was well able to send out any of the items that the minister made with her presentation, except that you didn't like it, and all those items she cited here were persistently repeated. And now let's talk about something else, so we started a little bit in general, benefit ourselves, di see teachers strike and then you said procurement, microbits are too specific, and quality tenders are done, and then in the second sentence, pills are only prescribed minimum conditions. Well, either it's good for one thing or it's good for the other, and they're not responsible for each other. And this quote now, so you know which man, show me the man who everybody likes I'll give you the man who never did anything. And especially not by former members of that party. Yeah, and then we can quote, so it's not the point of everyone liking you, the goal is to do some work.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u182083	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed colleague of the Voice.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u182084	All the items the minister has said here have actually been rejected and denied through this letter. Bringing this letter down to some membership in a party simply means not wanting to understand, not wanting to hear. This lady certainly doesn't just say that on her own behalf, believe me, she's talking to me in a good part of teachers and teachers. If you don't understand it if it's not clear to you, I'm truly, truly sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u182085	I'm closing the debate. I thank again the proposings, the respected colleague Sabini Glasovac and colleagues, Domagoj Hajdukovic. I would also like to thank the government's representatives, Deputy Prime Minister Predrag Štromar and Minister Blaženko Divjak and their associates. We'll vote on this point when the conditions are met. Dear colleagues and colleagues continue in the morning, at 9:30 p.m. with the agenda of the Proposal for a Law on Unrated Building Land. Have a nice night. Session interrupted at 3:02 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u182086	It is now up to the second point of the proposal to launch the issue of trust of Blaženka Divjak, Minister of Science and Education in the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The first one came from a colleague, Bernardić, and a colleague from Sladolev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u182087	The Honorable President of the Assembly is asking for a break to re-establish what the whole of Croatia is thinking, which is that educational reform does not exist and that it has come down unfortunately to the purchase of cheap pills of which half does not work. But that's not what I said, that's what teachers said in the longest strike in Croatia's history. Dropped out of the many things foreseen in the education strategy, gave up working with gifted children, gave up working with disabled children, dropped out of the 9th year's programme of education, gave up a different way of evaluating and evaluating, gave up changing ways both in the work and changing state graduation. I gave up on children and their future, and that's why teachers were demoted, why parents were bitter and why children didn't go to school. But in order for me not to talk, I think it would be important to hear what my colleagues and colleagues have said just from the ruling HDZ coalition about my coalition partner. Labour and Pension System Minister Josip Aladrovic: "Is it correct of Blaženka Divjak to distance himself, runs a portfolio that has been collapsed for 29 days." Radovan Fuchs, special adviser to the prime minister: "The minister has sided with the union by voting in the government." Zeljko Reiner, an academic: "I personally realized that Divjak resigned." Oleg Butkovic: "It is not normal for a coalition partner to attack incumbent President Kolinda Grabar Kitarovic at the time of the election campaign," and incumbent President Kolinda Grabar Kitarovic said: "Unfortunately, I think it is one of the proof that this reform of education that we are talking about is not bringing results and that we have to move harder." Milan Bandic said that Ms. Minister not only understands nothing but experimentes with children which is dangerous. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] And at the place of Lovre Kuščević he said, just a little... [[Intruder: Comrade Bernardić, thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u182088	You can't run out of time, it's 8 seconds already, my colleague Bernardic please. My colleague Bernardić, please, time's up, you got a break and everything's fine. Here you go, buddy of the Ice creams.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u182089	.../Speaker fee included...so we consult about the shameful debate that took place yesterday at late hours. So MOST has been in the debate all along, HDZ and HNS have put up a late night debate like a bad family who is ashamed of their family member and hides it from others. So the minister did not answer any specific questions. She smiled and photographed the parliamentary representatives. This is not a vote of confidence, therefore, of the minister, this is a vote on chairs and this is about chairs in state-owned enterprises HEP. It remains to be seen how the HDZ parliamentary deputies who were against the HNS coalition will vote, so this is about credibility. So, we're looking for a break and for the ruling majority's deputies to go to the bathroom, take a look at the toilet, and see how they vote. Do you vote for education and will you vote for your chairs?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u182090	Here you go, pal Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u182091	I'm also looking for a break from the Croatian Sovereigns' Club. In fact, we have an interesting situation and I would say the ideal opportunity for HDZ President Andrej Plenkovic to be president of the Croatian government. So, if Mr Plenkovic had pragmatic and wise he was with his colleagues in line below me, with members of the SDSS and with those who support the Milan Bandic club, he probably agreed to vote against Minister Divjak, or for her impeachment, and then he will be able to prepare the lists in the next early parliamentary elections as appropriate and will not welcome the internal elections. If he hasn't thought about it, then, of course, colleagues from HDZ, from the SDSS from the Milan Bandic club, will support this Croatian-Serbian trade coalition together. So here I'm very interested in how wise Andrej Plenkovic is, how pragmatic he is, he's always shown himself a lot so far, I'm still going to say pride, he didn't listen to advice, I'm afraid this time he didn't think enough, so he's going to go to internal elections, so maybe his HDZ party is having a reform. So, this is a clear question, will this coalition of Croatian-Serbian trade coalition continue to exist, or will we in a month, perhaps slightly less or slightly more have temporary parliamentary elections? They were alive and seen.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u182092	Okay. Is anyone else picking up for a break? Comrade Batinić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u182093	Thank you, Mr. President. Yes, today we have a choice whether we want to trust the future of education and educational reform to the minister, Professor Blažni Divjak, who after 25 introduced a reform of education in school or we want to leave it to cheap politics. We at HNS know what we want, and we want the country to move forward, that's more than clear. These days, by Thursday morning, he was arguing about it even though in the late evenings and early mornings it was the ones who signed this initiative that didn't exist. At one point even had to stop the session because there were none of the proposings. At that time, we pointed out that we call it cheap politics because nothing else could be read to further create one in a series of destructions and obstructions of the implementation of educational reform. Our citizens and we also hope that we are all aware here together that good education is the foundation and future of Croatia's development, and therefore today it would be good to be honest with ourselves and to put some inter-party intra-party recommendations aside and vote that Croatia is moving forward and to deny not this request or to trust Minister Blaženko Divjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u182094	Representative Beljak also reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u182095	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I am looking for a ten-minute break on behalf of the HSS and Democrats assembly representatives' club to discuss and to agree and in principle to further appeal to colleagues from the HNS. HNS colleagues have found themselves in a situation where every future, former, current HDZ partner, is that they are swallowed, used when they needed it and now, of course, not only disappears from the political scene but also from the ruling majority. In one way or another you will experience it either today or you will experience it these days or at the latest until the end of the election. You made a big political mistake getting into a coalition with a party that eats its coalition partners like it ate you. You have the chance, colleague Batinić, to have the opportunity not to vote at all today but to go down the ruling majority yourself, to show that you have any honour of not caring about any chair because it is not about Blaženko Divjak, it is about other chairs that you have to show that it can be different and give Croatia hope that one party that has ruined itself does not have to ruin Croatia further.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-15-0.u182096	Is anyone else picking up? If not, we'll continue at exactly 1400 hours. Please be specific. It's 1:00 P.M. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we continue with the vote. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 14.02 HOURS]] So, a proposal to launch a trust issue for Blaženko Divjak, Minister of Science and Education in the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The submissions are 31 MPs and representatives in the Croatian Parliament, the debate is closed. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, in order to decide on a non-confidential statement to a member of the Government, requires a semi-performing majority of all MPs, i.e. 76. I am voting on the decision to show no confidence in Blaženka Divjak, Minister of Science and Education in the Government of the Republic of Croatia, please vote. I'm trying to determine... You were wrong. ... [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] We won't do it again, but here's my colleague, Kirin, reporting he made a mistake. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] I find that...... I find that with 55 votes in favour of and one abstention and 77 votes against, no decision has been taken to show no confidence in Blaženko Divjak, Minister of Science and Education in the Government of the Republic of Croatia. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]]
