ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u9707	The next presentation of the position is the club of representatives, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDP, the distinguished representative Ivana Posavec Krivec.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u9708	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Today it is clear that more or less all clubs in this HS will say something about today's International Day against Violence Against Women. It's a day that we mark every year, in which we remember all those women who suffer, who get beaten and who may actually have no one to ask for help. Such women I believe sit in and in this assembly, such women I believe you've all met in your lives, such women are our neighbors, our friends, some mothers, grandmothers, sisters. Such women are part of Croatian society and they must in no way remain marginalised and not remain on the other side. They must be paid full attention, full attention, not only today on International Day against Violence against Women but every day, not only in September when we mark the National Day of Combating Violence against Women in Croatia, not only on 8 March with International Women's Day. The woman is important in Croatian society and must have full attention. I ask you colleagues and colleagues of few today in this room in 2020 will remain recorded as the year in which we live in extremely difficult circumstances, the year in which a new normal has turned out? New normal not only in Croatia, but throughout the world. Newly normally affected by the pandemic of the coronary crisis. And what happened in this pandemic of the Crown to women, women in Croatia, but also women in the world? Unfortunately, they remained even more marginalized. These women today have an even more difficult position in families if they live with an abuser. These women because of social distance, isolation is left to themselves. They no longer have support in their environment they have no one to turn to. Often these women are more economically dependent in the pandemic era. Today, we are talking about the Law of Perspectives, a new threat that will be overcome over a large number of families in Croatia. A few days ago, we talked about a law that stops the moratorium on loans in the Republic of Croatia. These are all reasons in which women remain and become more difficult and more and more isolated not only from society but also from their family. I wonder here today on behalf of all of us what Croatia has done by looking at other countries. Other countries have taken steps. France has recorded an increase in the number of abuses, thus setting out new measures. For example, they pay hotel accommodation to women victims of violence. In Spain, there is a code "mask 19" if you enter a pharmacy and you will immediately know that a victim of violence is hiding behind that code. What did Croatia do? Nothing. Croatia has made no additional measure to allow women to be more free and to report that they are victims of violence. The more she pushes them into these families of abusers. It didn't even allow them to self-insulate in safe houses. In what safe houses, I ask you what safe houses? Croatia has not secured safe houses it has committed to make the Istanbul Convention. I believe that behind this debate today, on behalf of the SDP Club, we will hear a completely different debate. We will hear a debate about how honey and milk flow in Croatia for women victims of violence. But please, women, turn around. Turn around and hear what's going on behind the neighbor's walls. Listen to what happens to children in your children's class because they are victims of violence. Unfortunately, all I'm saying is that on October 1st, I sent the prime minister an inquiry that was made about the Istanbul Convention. Unfortunately, although it's according to the Rules of Procedure, there's no answer. Because in this response, this Government of the Republic of Croatia has no say in what it has done for women and has allowed them to reduce violence in families, to stop women from being economically dependent, to reduce fear and to simply step outside into free life by protecting themselves and their children. ... Intruder: Time./... Unfortunately, in Croatia the number of deaths of women who have been killed by known partners has increased. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u9788	The next statement of view on behalf of Green-left bloc advocate Rada Boric's club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u9789	My colleagues and colleagues, here it seems that twice a year, at least this year, at least this new conference is talking about 50% of women, working women and women who eventually vote for some of us to be here and here. As we can see, how much of the topic interests me because I've been an activist for 30 years, usually when I talk about violence against women and in the audience, I thank these perhaps brave men who are here with us today. If women had the right to live without violence, probably all these men who did not agree with us to have the right to freedom might not agree to have the right to autonomy of decision-making, but in any case they would agree to have the right to life without violence, as we should all have, both children and minorities, eventually men. And today we mark, as is the national day marked by the murders of women. There were four sisters, three were drowned, a national day, also three women killed in violence and one was permanently disabled. Do we have to mark women's days by killing women? The fact that only this year so far, i.e. By September, by September, we have data, 27 women were killed. We heard from our predecessor that whether the number of criminal charges or disturbances in public order and peace is reduced because women no longer trust the judiciary, that cases will be resolved in favour of them. The number of crimes has increased, something has changed in the Penal Code, but this violence against women is a pandemic and the question of whether we have interest in finding the right vaccine, an effective pandemic vaccine. At this point, 1 billion women in the world are living some kind of violence, 1 billion. Can we imagine there's a billion of us here, whether we're rich, poor, white or black, whether it's the only thing that unites all the women in the world of violence against us, instead of creativity, that's our capacity for change, that's our concern for the community, for the other vulnerable, for the others. Can we imagine that instead of marking the day against violence against women, we mark the day of creative or combat women worldwide? Today on today, it's not just today's 25th day. Significantly, from today on, 16 days of activistism begins. 16 days of activistism that will end on December 10th on Human Rights Day. Violence against women is, first of all, the torture of the right woman. The right woman to decide their own lives, the right of women not to be abused, not only by the most intimate partners, not to be abused in the workplace, not to be discriminated against in the workplace, not to be sexually abused, raped and killed, and to keep all these forms of violence more or less unpunished and indirectly encouraging all future bullies. Do we want to live in a society where abusers are our neighbours, we want to live in a society where we ourselves don't see that we should be better neighbors? My colleagues said that especially this pandemic that we are currently living, this something that can't be new normal has made women's positions worse. The EU, the EU institutions, if it is not trusted with activists and our former activists, 40% have increased violence precisely because we no longer live in the new normal, old normal, because there can normally be new normal violence behind closed doors, and we still do not want to hear, see or think that it is none of our business, regardless of the 30-year struggle of activists. Today, an autonomous women's house celebrates its 30th anniversary, from rare independent shelters that finally have project financing, projectively, meaning not from the budget. Croatian government promises fight against violence, must not remain on promises. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u9847	The next statement is on behalf of the Centre and GLAS Representatives Club, the distinguished representative Dalia Oreskovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u9848	The Honorable Chairman. Fellow MPs and MPs. Yesterday, during the debate on the Executive Law, I very argumentably pointed to his shortcomings. In doing so, I have literally read and quoted the text of a provision that the ruling misdesigned and which is quite contrary to the claims and to their praises, which, on the proposal of the Executive Law, were repeated by the representatives of the HDZ. To repeat, I have challenged the fact that the rules under which the proposals for enforcement on the basis of a credible document are automatically to be trusted in the work of public notaries are equally in the alphabetical order of their last names, is insufficient in the law itself. I also disputed the fact that the implementation of an information system is announced in the law, which cannot even be suspected of being imagined and what it will look like, and the content of the application form will be prescribed by the Minister later by some regulation whose contents as a legislator will not be able to control or influence it. I have thus warned of one not bad but also very dangerous practice, and this practice can be observed more and more frequently in the work of this Parliament, it is that the matter that should be regulated and prescribed by law is transferred to the rules that will be made by a resolution minister, in turn, any one. That should take care of and conduct a broader discussion, but I'll tell you more about it at some other time. I would like to refer to something else, to my reasoned criticism of one ill-conceived and controversial norm of the Executive Law of the Assembly of the HDZ, Marija Jelkovec, since she had no arguments or comments on my presentation, she addressed me with the following words, “The rotation of the case by law will certainly be more effective and better than the form of GDPR that I worked as a lawyer for Janaf.” Wow, I thought to myself because, unfortunately, the Rules of Procedure did not give me a chance in that case yesterday for a direct answer and I could not give a direct replica like Maria Jelkovec that now she would not be able to replicate this free speech in this room, and there is no Branko Bačić to seek a breach of the Rules of Procedure. As a small introduction, as a small overture to the debate that follows, I will ask Mrs. Maria Jelkovec if she has any privileged information either directly from Janaf or perhaps from those who have gone into the illegal rooms of the club that the documentation I made as a professional does not work properly because I do not have such information. What I'm trying to say is two things, it's not a problem here whether it's an insult or a libel, so I can do it tomorrow if I get a movie looking for some kind of damage charge, and that makes my home budget worse, it's a very dangerous curve through which HDZ could one day fail, and by attacking me, you've actually attacked the entire legal profession. For a while, I wondered why my fellow lawyers were silent, why the Croatian bar of law kept silent, and then it occurred to me that we had about 6,000 public authorities in Croatia, most of them currently controlled by HDZ. So let me ask you, is there a problem in that, and all the lawyers were getting jobs more or less on the same principle, which my account amounted to about 30, 40,000 kuna, and some lawyer you might want to ask would charge you for 300 grand or 400 grand, is that the problem? Show me the numbers would say my last name is Oreshkovic. But it's not even the biggest problem, the biggest problem is that you've been repeated, barren, groundless attacks on me and on my one-time job for Yanaf has shown that you've been the other party of dangerous intentions. And why is that? Because you're persistently equating illegally with the legal one. It is obvious to you in HDZ that this is all the same, and today this debate on Minister Ćorić, Janaf, wind power plants and all other issues that will be raised in this debate will show and prove. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u9878	The last statement of view is on behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns and the distinguished representative of Hrvoje Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u9879	Dear colleagues and colleagues, the esteemed vice president of HS. Today we are marking International Day of Combating Women and several colleagues have spoken here and a colleague about that day and everyone has agreed and I will agree that we must fight violence against women because it is unacceptable, civilizedly unacceptable. However, we forgot about the Istanbul Convention, one key document that we brought before, here it is, 3 years will be, 2 and a half years from today, which was supposed to solve the problem of domestic violence and violence against women in a miraculous way. And then I personally and myself Croatian sovereigns pointed out that this document will not solve the problem of violence against women, regardless of what costs Croatia, its implementation of hundreds of millions of kunas. As much as it costs us, we still don't know because we've never heard transparently clearly from the ruling how much it costs us, only once we've heard of it, recklessly from Dubravka Shuice on the show Open when she said so it'll cost us about a billion kuna. Whether it's a billion or something less or more, we don't know that. But we do know that we now have some sort of GREVIO that monitors it and we know that this huge money and that halabuca that has risen has not solved that key problem, which is violence against women. And I'll be back 3 years ago when I came from both this pay phone and back from that place and wherever I came from saying that this document would not solve the problem of violence against women, and then from HDZ, those predators, from the SDP, all of them, and most of the others, attacked me as a man who is for violence against women, which is funny. Here, I turned out to be right. There's more violence, but is there any gender ideology? Well, of course she has her own ideologies. So Plenkovic himself, or the ruling, admitted that he did when they invented the famous stupidest statement possible... an interpretation statement, in which they admitted that there were gender ideologies, but that it would not apply. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So it's that nonsensus over nonsensus. Regulations of birth ideology will not apply in Croatia. So she has it, but is it still applied? Well, it does. Here, we had a year ago, we can do the same. It's one program that started up for you Croatian counties where you were educated by the youngest, those first-graders against birth stereotypes, whatever it is, for gender equality, no more sex, now we're talking about some kind of breed that's fluid, and when you read some of those programs, you see that's actually what I've been up against and I'm going to fight, which is that tomorrow some kid at school, some teacher who's adept at the attitude of Andrej Plenkovic or Pedje Grbina asks a child, come on, baby, choose today whether you're this or that. It's her or him. Male or female. And that's where it leads. No birth ideologies, no, but then mysteriously from the testimony, Mom and Dad disappeared. Those are the first steps. And where we end up, who knows. But still from this place, I would still go back to the subject here, many colleagues and colleagues here principles, which is the fight against violence against women. We had bad laws in which some money could be invested that we would not return the EU to these famous GREVIOs again, but we ourselves are fighting this evil domestic violence, violence against women. But no, Andrej Plenkovic got an e-mail, 2, 3 days before 8 March, as he's going to say, on March 8, 2018, where the committee buddies told him, "Come on, master, be a dude, if you want a place, break it over your knee, show that you're a liberal worldsman, and he did it on March 8th. He had 14 dissidents in his HDZ party. Is there anyone that's even in the Parliament of those? Is there a colleague? Is there? There's a colleague, and maybe now there's two, there's three of you, so the rest of you HDZs, if you think of it, but you won't think of it, first of all, because you're not that lightman, and on the other hand, you're afraid of the boss justifiably because he remembered it, too, he's on his trail, so be on to his own ideology, and you'll be operating in politics for a long time, of course, while Andrej Plenkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u9880	Here, I declare a break until 14 o'clock and 30 minutes when we move on with our work. It's 13,47 o'clock. The next statement of view is on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, a respected representative, Nada Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u9949	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues. And on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, we will dedicate this statement to the International Day of Combating Violence against Women. It is certainly necessary to remember the sacrifices suffered by women, sisters in Mirabal, the Dominican Republic, and for which, among other things, the United Nations Council declared the 25th November anti-violence day. This shows certainly a message of importance how to recognize this very negative social phenomenon. Messages, reports, penalties, help messages to the victim immediately separate from the bully, provide her with psychosocial help. The victim's material and self-resistance and giving her life without a bully, we can freely say a new life. No, it's only been two months when we talked about this speaker, but throughout the Republic of Croatia, we talked about this issue on National Day Against Violence. Of course we'll all agree that such a social negative phenomenon should be condemned. He also needs a lot of work, all of us working together at all levels, and I would point out every single person. And I will agree that certainly the government and the governing structure are responsible and it is an obligation to create conditions and assumptions in society to reduce this negative social phenomenon and to indicate it, to become socially conscious and to ensure all other mechanisms that will enable it. And that is why, on the very day of the 2016 International Day of Combating Violence, President Plenkovic announced in the first months of his term that Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, will ratify the Istanbul Convention, an international document in which the Republic of Croatia will join countries that clearly order a zero tolerance to all forms of violence, especially women and family. The Istanbul Convention made clear in its interpretation that the purpose of the convention is to fight violence against women. Today is a meeting of the National Council of Combats, a council in the government in which representatives of the ministries, representatives of the DORH courts and associations, civil associations dealing with the fight against violence will talk about what has been done and what is yet to be done. And it will be recalled that the government has changed the laws that the violence has been more strictly qualified not only as an offence but also as a crime, and it is not true that Croatia has no home for the care of victims of violence, we do not have them in all counties, but we have in 6 counties, in 4 counties of the temporary house now, and shelters for victims, and right now at this session, after this session, contracts will be delivered in which Virovitski-Podravina County will be awarded a contract of 9 million and 233 thousand kunas for the restoration of shelters as well as Koprivnica-Crying for 10 million kuna. Today the SOS phone will also be promoted National Call Centre at number 116606 24 hours every day, every day and holiday women will be able to get all the instructions and information on how to and where to move. What should be said, and that is messages, messages not violence, violence can be primarily verbal, and that is how it begins. In prayer, we have words that become works, so it would be doubtful, for some time, how the message is sent and how the truths are spoken or the truth is spoken. There is no excuse for violence for any circumstances in which it happened, and for that we all need to create a better society together.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u10019	The next statement of view is on behalf of the House Movement Representatives Club, the esteemed representative Davor Dretar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u10020	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Assembly and today, I am very pleased to say, the extremely respected present colleagues here, as well as those who are not here with us and above all women in Croatia, and of course throughout the world. I had an abuser in the immediate neighborhood. I've never experienced anything more terrible in my life. It happened almost every day, yet the gentleman had a wife with us we could say mild mental retardation, sick person, listen to what he did to every normal man, try to put myself in that basket, cause incredible waves of feeling. There was first the feeling of going over the fence and pulling him out of his apartment for the ears and that if anything else would at least try to do what he did to his wife every day. Then came a sense of shame, an extraordinary shame that I was a member of a sex that, in fact, could find such monsters. It's clear that at this point in time to call police obligations and the tasks of every normal man, that's what we've done regularly and can't say, the police have been here doing their job. It took several years, of course they let him back, so I ask nicely that we all put together through the activism, but here we have through our abilities as people sitting in this respectable home to help the Croatian police or give them a broader framework for action in which women victims of violence will be more effective. Unfortunately, it only stopped at one point when social services got involved and separated that family and thank God that it happened because it's hard to be the first neighbor and listen to such things. Each of us, every man really puts it into a situation to wonder what sleeps in some of us, which brings this most often alcoholic male into the situation that his physical domination is manifested by physical violence against his wife, mother, sister, or sometimes quite unknown to me personally is not clear to me. It's a terrible fact, and that's the number that we've put out here, and what respected colleagues have brought out, they're horrible and they're scary, and they all have to make us seriously worry about it. The entire world of literature, culture, was either artistic or in any other form impossible without a woman. There are sculptures for mothers, there are gone, there are symphony written about love for women, there are, of course, pictures of beautiful women, pictures of mothers, pictures of children, pictures of girls and remind us of all of us once again, especially we call it men that our aim to protect women was those of our family, mothers, wives, sisters as well as all other women here in Croatia and around the world. And we have to keep raising our voice all the time, we men telling us men this has to stop. We know it can't be eradicated, unfortunately, but there's a little excuse for me running away, I had a written text but I forgot to look at it at all. I'd just like to at this point, have another minute, remind maybe some little girl who listens to us now, to live in a culture where the ideals of beauty are imposed. The competition in the possession of branded clothing or provocative clothing is under way, dear girls, you are the most beautiful girl you are. Don't buy these stories, they can often be the introduction to an incredible spiral of abuse through social networks that can result in such severe tragedies as suicides. Among other women are the highest percentage of victims of trafficking, trafficking in human beings involved in prostitution chains where they are deprived of fundamental human rights. That's why we shouldn't be particularly smart, as a representative of the Homeland Movement and say that I'm sure in this we're all completely in agreement when we say violence against women has to stop once and for all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u10075	Thank you. Next statement on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, the distinguished representative Marija Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u10076	Dear Vice-President of the Assembly, colleagues and fellow parliamentary representatives, on this day of the International Day against Violence against Women, and I will try to say something about fighting violence against women. In this sense, there are already many important things that most agree with. So I will not repeat what has already been said but I will try to point out some of the problems that we are facing in this political action in the fight against violence against women and which seem to be an obstacle to what we all should be, and as far as we've heard it, it's probably a common goal, and that's that we're suppressing this violence. The first thing to say, which should be asked as a question, concerns this moment where we are all now. How are you? You can't answer me now. I assume you're all right. Most of us here are fine. Although we remember times when we were better, times when we spent time with friends, where we could go have a drink in a bigger society, we used to be so drastic that we went to concerts and hugged them. Do you remember those times? These were the times when the exhaust valves we took for granted were reaching out to us, and we all enjoyed them. These exhaust valves allowed us to survive, to survive as social beings, to get rid of daily activities, and to be a better person in the end of the line. But now those valves are gone. Now we're in a situation where we don't go to gyms anymore, we don't do sports, we don't hang out with friends. Now I am the accumulated stress that is potent by the fact that many of our fellow citizens are either going to lose their jobs or at the very end of the line, the uncertain future is ahead of them, we're taking them home. And what happens when we're stressed out? Who becomes our exhaust valve when everyone else's exhaust valves are gone? Of course, and unfortunately, our closest, so the basic thing that I want to point out now is that we need to be careful and careful, so that we don't have more victims than the crown indirectly, not just directly affected by the virus itself, to realize that we are in a situation where violence, domestic violence is growing. Why am I saying we need to regain consciousness? Because although we are finding data, the latest statistics by the MUP show that the crime of domestic violence has increased by 43% compared to the same period last year, the interpretations of these figures vary greatly. So the MUP argues that this indicator is actually the efficiency of the system, while on the other hand, we have a lawyer for gender equality who says otherwise, that it is precisely proof of system ineffectiveness because the number of criminal charges is falling, and it falls because people no longer dare to report violence until it escalates, until it passes into the sphere of criminal law. The global negative trend, as well as Europeans, is that the number of victims of domestic violence at a time of crisis, mainly at the time of this current crisis we are in, is growing. Unfortunately, there are Croatian indicators that we are no exception in this case. So let us be aware of the situation we are in, the lack of exhaust valves, and focus our attention on our neighbors and our citizens, show social responsibility and solidarity to help them overcome these difficult moments and to recognize the situation they may be in so that we can react for them, if they are not able to. Another thing you'd like to point out, which prevents us from actively fighting violence is the sub-optimation of the system. So we have an insufficient number of police officers who can act and react and who are overloaded, and then we can't even talk about their own work and the way they fought violence. Their strength really needs to be strengthened. And the third, concerning all of us and what our burden is, and our task is to politicise or ideologies the story of violence. We had a speech and a conversation and we continued it around the Istanbul Convention, we had an art. 14. which is a liberal intervention in the education system or art. 53rd, which affirms the difference between gender and gender. We can distinguish whether it is right or not, but our fundamental question is that everything we are willing to give up is to find a minimum common consensus in the fight against violence, whether we can get rid of its ideological omen to focus on what is most important and what should be our common interest to all of us. My colleagues and colleagues, that's why we're here, and that's what we can do in the fight against violence, agree that it needs to be prevented, and remove other contents from this topic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u10128	Here's a respected colleague we move on, we're going with the club stand. The first will be the presentation of the position of SDSS's Club of Representatives, the distinguished representative Dragana Jeckov.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u10129	Thank you, dear vice president of the assembly, colleagues and colleagues. On the occasion of today's pay phone after this pay phone, but in other places we'll hear something that I agree with, of course. This is that violence against women is the most widespread form of endangering fundamental human rights, the right to life, the right to privacy and family life, the protection of dignity, the right to a home, the right to freedom of expression. Yet, although the most widespread form of expression or endangerment in the largest number remains unreported. Women are reluctant to report a bully, mostly because of fear of new violence and the cause of even more serious violence of economic addiction, low levels of confidence, that no one can help her. On the occasion of today, we will also hear, and I agree that there are various forms of violence against women including physical, mental, sexual, and economic violence. But in recent times, women, especially young girls, are exposed to another new type of violence, violence that comes to us from social networks, which we call digital violence for, because this kind of violence is precisely coming from social networks. Very often young girls suffer pressure, and even blackmail, they rarely become prisoners of this modern monster that happens through apps. So the vast majority of high school girls, even 72% of them, were exposed on line to sexual content comments. Almost every 10 girls were exposed to sexual blackmail, and 7% were exposed to video releases or photographs that compromised them. The abuse and violence on social networks that young girls are exposed to in different ways, either as victims or observers, but always the same feeling, which is fear and helplessness. In most cases, male or former partners are listed as perpetrator of electronic, sexual, gender-related violence. In fact, young girls very easily fall into the trap of a bully who establishes his own kind of digital control, so let's say they insist on getting her password, they must be available to him all the time and respond to the message immediately. It even controls their announcements. In fact, they don't agree to all of this because they can't resist, and even more alarmingly, 50% of them don't even know they're suffering and they're victims, and if they're even conscious, they have no idea who to turn to for help. And finally, I will remind you because we must not forget the case that shocked all of Croatia. Somewhere in the 10th month of 2019. who is just talking about this form of new violence, when a group of young people have spent more than a year blackmailing a 16-year-old girl with a recording to extort new sexual relations with the threat of sending movies to her parents and friends if she doesn't agree to it. To further convince her of his intentions, she was beaten on several occasions by her boyfriend, who was also one of the rapists. Women, young girls, through digital control, suffer a terrible psychic torture, abuse and sexual exploitation that makes them feel anxious, ashamed, worried about condemning the environment, and ultimately, if the announcements and events are mainly blamed for being guilty. In order for such terrible cases not to be repeated to young girls and women, this should be systematically helped because this is a new one, and unfortunately a more frequent form of violence in which we must react as a society. Why? Because those who suffer and fear clicking keyboards and publishing are actually our daughters and sisters who are crying out to help them.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u10140	The next statement of view is on behalf of the HNS Representatives' Club and independent representatives. Dear Representative Ermina Lekaj Smr.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u10141	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues and if we testify to a number of changes in our society, one thing remains permanent, unfortunately the devastating statistics of violent behaviour towards women do not change despite the satisfactory legislative framework and numerous public debates. For years now, every 15 minutes in Croatia, a woman has experienced some form of violence. It is a frightening and alarming fact that violence is becoming more brutal and more dangerous for women to live. According to publicly available data, 12 women were killed in Croatia alone during this year alone. While in these months the pandemic calls for responsibility and staying in homes is paradoxically that this same home becomes the most dangerous place for women and girls around the world. Today we mark International Day against Violence against Women in order to encourage the strengthening of social awareness and responsibility for the need to report and sanction violent forms of behaviour. So it is also time to send a clear and loud message of zero tolerance to every form of violent behavior on this day. Violence against women is a problem for all of us. It has become one of the most widespread and embarrassing forms of human rights violations. It does not know national, cultural or status differences. It happens in the house, but also in the streets and as such stands in the way of the progress of our society towards equality, equality and peace because as long as we live in a society that tolerates killing, brutal beating and demeaning women, in a society in which its victim is relatively related to domestic violence, not a bully, where it must be reminded daily of the role of women and their equality we cannot say that we are moving forward. So let's not shut up and turn our heads. As individuals and as a society, we have the obligation to condemn every form of violent behavior and to support victims not only declared and, if necessary, because every woman and girl has the right to a safe environment and life without violence. The goal we must pursue is a solid and fair society in which victims will receive full support, while at the same time being more determined to sanction a bully. It is the obligation of all of us to continuously encourage mutual cooperation in the repression and sanctioning of violence, not to close our eyes and not to keep quiet on various forms of violent behavior but to ensure the support and protection of victims and, together with education and prevention, build an open and tolerated society in which human rights and diversity are respected, in which women will feel safe and respected because the responsibility for each new victim is on all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u12165	Final proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Multilateral Convention on the Implementation of Measures related to the avoidance of Double Taxation Contracts for the purpose of preventing tax base reduction and profit reorientation, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 59. The promoter is the Government, the debate is closed, so I am voting on the final proposal of this law. Please, let's vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? I find that 116 MPs and MPs, 110 for, 5 abstentions and 1 against, have voted against, and thus the Law on the Confirmation of the Multi-Stakeholder Convention on the Implementation of Measures related to Double Taxation Contracts has been adopted in order to prevent tax base reductions and profit rerouting. Now we move on to the Final Proposal of the Foreign Law, second reading, P.Z. No. 12. The motion is government, but the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives, the SDP Representatives' Club, the Party's Representatives' Club with a name and last name, Smart and GLAS, the IDS Representatives' Club, Katarina Peović's representative and the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives. The review of the amendments was submitted by electronic means, and the statement was carried out earlier in the session. Now we're going to vote on amendments that the motionor does not accept, so we're going in a row. First amendment to MP Katarina Peovic, please vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that the amendment has not received the required number of votes. The second amendment to the Green-Left bloc's Club of Representatives is not accepted by the government, please vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that the amendment has not received the required number of votes. The third amendment to the Green-Left bloc's Club of Representatives is not accepted by the government, please vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment No. 4th of the same club the government doesn't accept, please let's vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that the amendment has not received the required number of votes. The 5th Amendment Club of IDS Representatives doesn't accept, so let's vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that the amendment has not received the required number of votes. Amendment number 6. Green-left bloc representatives' club, the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment number seven, same club of representatives, government doesn't accept, please vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment number 8. The same club of representatives again, the government does not accept it. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. We're going to Amendment 9 of the same club of representatives, the government doesn't accept it. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment number 10. Green-left bloc representatives' club, the government doesn't accept it. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment number 11. A SDP representative club, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment number 12. Green-left bloc representatives' club, the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment number 13, again the same club of MPs, the government does not accept it. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? Nor did this amendment receive the required number of votes. Amendment number 14. The party's representative club with the name and last name, Smart and Glass, the government does not accept it. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Parliamentarian Peovic's 15th amendment, the government does not accept it. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. The 16th Amendment of the SDP Representatives Club, the government does not accept it. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 17. Green-left bloc representatives' club, the government doesn't accept it. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment number 18. The party's representative club with the name and last name, Smart and Glass, the government does not accept it. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. The 19th amendment of MP Peovic, the government does not accept it. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. 20th Amendment, again Party Representatives' Club with a name, Smart and Glass. The government doesn't accept it. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. The 21st amendment, MP Peovic, is not accepted by the government. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. 22nd Amendment, SDP Representatives' Club. The government doesn't accept it. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. The 23rd amendment, MPs Peovic, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. The 24th amendment, the SDP Representatives' Club, is not accepted by the Government. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. The 25th amendment, MPs Peovic, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment 26, same MP again. The government doesn't accept it. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. 27th Amendment, Green-Left Block Representatives Club. Who's... The government doesn't accept it. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. 28th Amendment, Green-Left Block Representatives Club. The government doesn't accept it. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment No. 29, Green-Left Block Representatives Club. The government doesn't accept it. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment No. 30 The Legislative Committee has been adopted and becomes an integral part of the bill. Amendment 31, The Party's representative club with its name and last name, Smart and Glass, is not accepted by the Government. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment No. 32, the Green-left bloc advocates club is not accepted by the government. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. And the last amendment, 33rd, party representatives' club with a name and last name, Smart and Glass, is not accepted by the Government. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes, so we move to a vote on the final draft of the Foreign Law. Please, let's vote. Who's in? Who's up for the law? They're not amendments anymore. They're the law. Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that 119 MPs and MPs voted, 76 were for, 28 abstentions and 15 against, and thus was passed the Foreign Law.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u13298	Your Honor. So we followed the vote on the Foreign Law and it seems to us that something was not well calculated and that there were not enough votes on the part of the ruling majority for that law. In fact, MPs from the ranks of the ruling majority did not vote in favour of the law, and in the end it was shown that there were 76 votes. I'd like to see that again because it seems there wasn't enough votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u13299	Okay, we'll check it out and see. I can't right now. What? ... Yeah, it's not even organic law, but we still need to determine if it was, but we'll figure that out later if it was found that there was some kind of failure then we'll vote again another time. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Let's now go to the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Tax on Profits Act, I said, so I am voting on the following conclusion: "1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on profit tax and 2. All objections and proposals will be sent to the applicant to consider them when determining the text of the final bill." Who is it for? Who's restrained? Who's against it? I find that 115 MPs and MPs, 76 for, 8 abstentions and 31 against, have voted, and we have reached the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies. Proposal for an amending and supplementing law on income tax, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 57. The motion is Government, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: ‘1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Income Tax Act and 2. All objections and proposals will be sent to the applicant to consider them when determining the text of the final bill." Who is it for? Who's restrained? Who's against it? I find that 119 MPs and MPs, 76 for, 9 abstentions and 34 against, have voted, and the conclusion has been reached that it has been proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u16175	Thank you, Mr. President. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, I would like to request a recess before joining the vote on this item of the agenda. As you said on the proposal for a state budget, more than 300 amendments have been tabled, the government has not accepted almost one of these amendments, only a few have been accepted, however, none in essence. The government of the Republic of Croatia has thus shown a complete misunderstanding of the situation in which the state is present. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Croatia and the world face the biggest peace crisis since II. World War I, this crisis is a health crisis, but it's also an economic crisis. This crisis has resulted in sick people being no longer placed in Croatian hospitals but being placed in tents outside these hospitals. This crisis is such that two classes die every day today, and we pretend like nothing's going on. And the government in the crisis, instead of co-operating, rejects any amendments proposed by the opposition, rejects them without too much justification. Dear colleagues and colleagues, this is a moment where we can only come out of the crisis by talking and cooperating, not by applying the rough force that comes out of the number of hands in HS. You have refused all amendments, you have not even participated in the debate on these amendments, and therefore we cannot participate in the vote on amendments in the SDP Club and we will not do so, as you have not participated in the debate, so we will not participate in the same vote for the same reason. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u16176	Thank you very much. Then let's go to another club, dear fellow Skoro. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u16177	Thank you very much, Mr. President of HS. On behalf of the Homeland Movement Club, I am also looking for a break because at this specific and difficult time the state budget for 2021 should be a ceremony where everyone shows understanding. However, the budget that was in the debate in which the amendments were discussed by representatives of the ruling majority almost refused to participate. So in this debate, it is evident in all this that this is only a continuation of the action of a trade-principle coalition, which has been highlighted several times from a pay phone when members of the coalition openly and publicly insisted that their conditions be accepted, without showing understanding of the basics. We have one budget where I will give even one classic example of worrying about the fight against corruption spending 14500 kunas, we have one budget where more important hunters from forests, forests and forest planning are demining and 80 million kunas are being given to each other, almost 50% are being reduced in the budget, and the hunters are likely to increase by 300 and some percent due to the upcoming local elections. In the Homeland Order, we believe that this is not appropriate, we believe that under difficult conditions we should behave responsibly, we do not feel that we should have a multaneous concept of budget adoption, and we also do not want to take part in the vote on this point because we consider it irresponsible.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u16178	Thank you. Let's move on, MPs' club Mosta Col. Petrov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u16179	Your Honor, I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Bridge Club for the vote that follows. Of the 300 amendments the opposition has filed, you've almost refused everything and you've shown it, okay, you're the smartest. You understand why it is not necessary to invest in infrastructure, which is why children's allowances should not be increased, which is why they should not be invested in less environments in an evenly balanced development of Croatia. You understand, we don't understand. You understand, obviously, and you know what the unions are protesting in front of the ministry today while you are here in the assembly talking fairy tales about health reform. You understand, you know why in this particular time the pensioners needed to be charged extra bills for TV receivers. You understand, you know why you're breaking the law guaranteeed by law to students of professional studies at this point in the last few months. You know that. As you know why you don't need budget improvements because you know everything. I congratulate you on that knowledge. But I don't think anyone in Croatia envys you today because the knowledge you have used to be good for you, and the purpose of your work today and the trust that your citizens gave you to make life better for everyone in Croatia, not just for you, because this time will pass faster than you thought. Please reconsider not to refuse the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u16180	Now it's my colleague Zekanovic's turn, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u16181	Dear President HS, in front of the Croatian Sovereigns Club, I also request a 10-minute break. Here I must warn of the hypocritical behaviour of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Namely, when the corona crisis began, all political parties were asked for a consensus on the Civil Protection Staff Act. And we agreed that it was a crisis and that we needed to be together and we said let's sail through that crisis together, let's make Croatia feel better. The crisis has not passed, the crisis is even more difficult and MPs in HS, I mean first of all the opposition, have given 300 amendments, Croatian sovereigns 15 amendments, except for 2 amendments no amendments have been accepted. It wasn't even too much debate. We believe that if we supported the Civil Protection Staff or the Government of the Republic of Croatia to manage this crisis, I think that we could, that we could continue to participate in these processes through the creation of the budget, and this has not been possible for us. I still have to stress here that some of the amendments that are extremely important, and these are amendments to demographics, demographic disasters, which are actually the biggest problem for the Croatian state and for the Croatian people, are not accepted. It's a problem that won't go away when the coronary crisis goes away, and that's a problem that has to be solved continuously, that's a problem that has to be solved even when it's the biggest crisis, which is today. Unfortunately, demographics are today the last hole in Andrej Plenkovic's play, and I'm afraid that's how it's going to stay.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u16182	Now it's time for the esteemed colleague Tomašević, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u16183	We also do not want to participate in this circus, which will now be called "a vote on amendments to the budget". We warned that all amendments proposed by the opposition to the budget, however good or bad they are, that it does not matter because the ruling majority automatically rejects them. Now you've made an exception to the 3 symbolic amendments where you've changed from which position you've been taken from, so you haven't really accepted them either. It can't be that out of our 40 amendments to the Green-Left Block Club that none of them are good, that none of them are good, that you've all refused as a government. But not only that, but a day and a half during the amendment debate, there was not one representative of the ruling majority in the assembly, day and a half. Well, then we won't be in the assembly while you vote on those amendments because we know how you're going to vote on those amendments. And not only that, the 4 amendments to the Green-Left bloc's Club of Representatives were not included in the vote, were reportedly rejected because of a breach of the Budget Law, we asked the finance minister to give us a written explanation of what we've broken there with those 4 amendments, he didn't do it. We asked the Committee on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure to give an opinion in which way, because I believe that the Rules of Procedure and the Committee on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure have been declared incompetent to give an interpretation of it. So our four amendments are completely illegally segregated from the vote. So we don't want to participate in this circus anymore, you decided that there was no dialogue with opposition deputies who also chose directly citizens over you decided to do everything your own way, and you didn't even have the authority to listen to the reasons for the amendments we worked on. That's not how we're gonna play it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u16184	You're the one who's here now.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u16185	The Honorable and Honorable President of the Assembly on behalf of the HSLS Club and Reformers, I am also looking for a break. I think it would be correct if you'd listened and what we colleagues have to say and we've also listened to you. But it's your business, so you left this assembly. I'll continue to take this opportunity, ask for a break on behalf of the HSLS and Reformers Club so that we can also consider all this again about the budget. We'll support the budget. We think the budget is real. I understand the anger of the opposition. The opposition was also in the past, past council meetings, someone else was an opposition, similar things were happening, I can understand that, but it needs to be realistic. The budget is realistically made under the given circumstances that are certainly based on everything that happens around the crown crisis. On the other hand, the budget is based on European funds, and on the third hand it is natural that the opposition is looking for some of its things in the budget, but it is necessary to get a majority in the Croatian Parliament, which is why most of the votes in the elections are necessary, we, the ruling majority have decided that some things are more important. For me as a liberal, it is certainly good in this budget that further tax reform will continue and that is why, one of the reasons why we will support this budget. The opposition certainly advocates were looking for other things, it's legitimate, but it's also legitimate of the majority that we are directing in which direction the budget will be created, in which direction the country will go, it will be our responsibility, and their full right to complain. So HSLS and Reformists will support this budget with hope of course that this year will be much better than we expected, that there may be room in one of the rebalances and accept some of these amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u16186	Thank you. And here's the last, last explanation of the break, Comrade Bacic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u16187	Thank you, Mr. President. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, I am looking for a 10 minute break in order to send a clear message once again in front of our club that the Republic of Croatia's budget, as proposed by the Republic of Croatia for 2021, provides economic progress for the Republic of Croatia, provides strong support for Croatian and Croatian citizens in the fight against the pandemic of the Coronal Virus. This strong support is also evident in this year in a way that has been forwarded from the state budget to Croatian economies over 8 billion kunas in the protection of their liquidity, continued business, but above all in the protection of the jobs of Croatian citizens. So we can testify that at the top of this pandemic, the number of employees or the number of HZMO insurance companies is not smaller, although it is precisely the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia through this pandemic that ensures the protection of almost all jobs in the Republic of Croatia. As for the objection that individual representatives from the ruling majority did not attend the interpretation of the amendments, I must say on behalf of the MPs' club that this remark has been completely missed. Why? Because none of the MPs present with a statement on amendments and the interpretation of amendments have the ability to intervene and not even if these on the left hand side of the assembly address the most difficult words of the indictments against the Government and members of the ruling majority and members of the HDZ This departure of opposition from parliament shows that they do not really care about the implementation of this budget that enables Croatia's economic progress. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u16188	Thank you, Comrade Bacic. All right, we'll go with the vote now. So first we need to see if the quorum is here, so when we start with the first amendment, I'm going to ask who's for, who's abstention, who's against, to figure out how many people are. After that, I'll ask for it, and then after 20, 30 amendments, I'll check the quorum again so we'll keep that 76 constantly or more already how many MPs there will be. So we're starting with the 1st amendment of the House of Homeland Movement Representatives Club, the government doesn't accept it. Please vote. Who's up for the amendment? Who's restrained? And who's against it? You've checked everything in every room? No, no, no quorum. Can we check the rooms? All right, all right. Six is on the screen. Okay, so how many MPs are here? 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21. It's 21. 20 not someone, someone didn't turn on. Let's make sure you're all on board. How much do you have in the hall of the big one here? There's 21 MPs here. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21. No, no, it's 21 on the screen, I don't know why it shows 20. Come on, let's go, okay, and what was the problem? ... Okay, well, then 76 voted. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] 0 is for, didn't get the necessary majority. We are now going to the 2nd Amendment Domagoj Hajdukovic, the government does not accept, let's vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 3 of the same agent. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? What's the problem? .../The speaker is not on. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No. Four of the same MPs, the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No. Five of the same MPs. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No. Six of the same MPs. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 7 to MP Bartulic. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No. 8 Green-left bloc representatives' club. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No. 9 MP Hajdukovic. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No. 10 Advocacy Club of Independent Lists Bridges. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No. 11 Green-left bloc representatives' club. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No. 12 Advocacy Club of Croatian Sovereigns. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No. 13 Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 14 of the same club of representatives. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No. 15 MP Hajdukovic. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 16 of the same agent. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get needed, eh, just a little bit. We'll do it again. Please be careful. So 16. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No. 17 Members of Vesna Nadj were accepted in an amended form by which the applicant agreed and became an integral part of the budget in the amended form. Amendment 18 Green-left bloc advocates' club. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 19 of the same club representative. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No. 12 IDS representatives' clubs were accepted in the amended form by which the applicant agreed and became an integral part of the budget in the amended form. Amendment 21 by Representative Bulj, not accepted by the government. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 22 Adviser's Club of Independent Lists Bridges. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 23 Party Representatives' Club with a name and last name, Smart and Glass. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 24 Green-left bloc advocates' club. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 25. Green-left block representatives' club. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. 26th Amendment of the Green-Left Block Representative Club. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 27 of Parliament to Marijana Petir was accepted in the amended form. Since the applicant for the amendment has not been manifested, we will vote on the amendment of the applicant for the amendment. amending the applicant for an amendment to the amendment. In principle, you have no right to intervene now, but we will vote since your amendment has been accepted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u16189	Thank you, Mr. President. I accept the amendment in changed form as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I thank you and there's no need to vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u16190	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the text. 28th Amendment of Representative Sacic. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 29 of the same agent. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 30, MP Kujundzic. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. 31st Amendment, MP Kujundzic. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 32, MP Kujundzic. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 33. Green-left block representatives' club. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. 34th Amendment of the same Club of Representatives. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 35. Party with Name and Surname, Smart and Glass Club. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. 36. Party with Name and Surname, Smart and Voice. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 37. It's an independent list bridge counseling club. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 38. It's an independent list bridge counseling club. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Representative Bulj 39. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. The 40th Amendment of Representative Bulj. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. 41st Amendment of Representative Hajdukovic. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 42. IDS agent club. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 43 of the same club representative. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. 44th Amendment is the same club of representatives. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. The 45th Amendment is the same club of representatives. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. The 46th Amendment of the Independent Lists Bridge. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. 47th Amendment Advocacy Club A Bridge of Independent Lists. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 48 of the same club of representatives. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 49. A bridge of independent lists. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 50. It's the House of Homeland Movement Representatives' Club. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. The 51st Amendment of Representative Lenart. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. The 52nd Amendment of Lenart. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. 53rd is the same representative. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. Amendment 54, Agent Lenart. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 55, MP Hajdukovic. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 56. The bridge of independent lists. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 57 of the same club of representatives. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 58 of the same club of representatives. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 59. The bridge of independent lists. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment of the 60th Representative Ban Vlahek. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? No, he didn't get the number of votes he needed. Amendment 61 is the same representative. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. The 62nd amendment of MP Kujundzic. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. The 63rd Amendment of the Most Independent Lists. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 64. The bridge of independent lists. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 65. The bridge of independent lists. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 66. The bridge of independent lists. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. The 67th Amendment of Representative Ban Vlahek. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. 68th Amendment of the Most Independent Lists. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 69 of the same club of representatives. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 70. The club of the representatives of the Independent Lists. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 71 has been withdrawn. Amendment 72. Croatian sovereigns. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 73. Also Croatian sovereigns. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 74. Croatian sovereigns. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 75. IDS. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. 76th, same club of MPs. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Seventy-seventh same club of MPs. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 78 to the IDS. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 79. Same club reps. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 80 of the same club of representatives. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. 81. IDS again. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. 82. IDS. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. 83. IDS. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. 84. IDS. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 85. IDS again. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 86 of the same club of representatives. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. The 87th Amendment again IDS. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 88 to the IDS. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. 89th Amendment IDS. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No. 90. IDS agent club. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. The 91st Amendment Milanovic litre. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 92. Green-left block representatives' club. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 93 to the Green-Left bloc. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. 94. The bridge of independent lists. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 95. The bridge of independent lists. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 96. The bridge of independent lists. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 97. The bridge of independent lists. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. 98. IDS. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. The 99th Amendment of Representative Bulj. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. The 100th Amendment of Representative Bulj. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. 101st Amendment of the same agent. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. 102. Amendment to the Green-Left Block Representatives Club. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. 103rd Amendment of the same club of representatives. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't make it. 104th Amendment Green-Left Block Representatives Club. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. Amendment 105 of the Most Independent Lists. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. 106th Amendment of the Most Independent Lists. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. 107th Amendment, MP Miletic. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. The 108th Amendment of Representative Bulj. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. The 109th Amendment of Representative Kujundzic. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. 110. The club of the representatives of the Independent Lists. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. The 11th Amendment of the Most Independent Lists. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. 112. The bridge of independent lists. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. 113. The bridge of independent lists. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. 114. The bridge of independent lists. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. 115. The bridge of independent lists. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. 116. The bridge of independent lists. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. 117. Green-left block representatives' club. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. 118. Green-left block representatives' club. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. 119. Green-left block representatives' club. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. 120th Amendment of the same club representative. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. The 121st Amendment is the same club of representatives. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. 121. Green-left block representatives' club. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. The 123rd amendment of the same club of representatives. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. 124, same club reps again. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. 125. Green-left block representatives' club. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. 126. Green-left block representatives' club. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. The 127th Amendment is the same club of representatives. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. The 128th Amendment is the same club of representatives. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. The 129th Amendment is the same club of representatives. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. The 130th Amendment is the same club of representatives. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. 131. Green-left block representatives' club. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. 132. Party Representatives' Club with Name and Surname, Smart and Glass. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. 133th Amendment of the same club of representatives. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. 134th Amendment of the same club of representatives. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. The 135th Amendment is the same club of representatives. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. It's the 136th Amendment of the same club of MPs. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. The 137th Amendment is again the same club of representatives. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. 138th Amendment of the same Club Party with Name and Surname, Smart and Voice. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. 139th Amendment of the same club of representatives. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. The 140th Amendment is the same club of representatives. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. 141st Amendment of the same club of representatives. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. 142th Amendment of the same club of representatives. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. 143rd Amendment of the same club of representatives. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. 144th Amendment of the same club of representatives. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. 145th, the same club of MPs again. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. The party with the name and last name, Smart and Voice again. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. 147th Amendment of the IDS. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. 148. IDS agent club. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. 149th of the same club of MPs. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. 150th of the same club of MPs. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. 151st, same club of representatives. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. 152. IDS again. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. 153rd, same club of representatives. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. 154th Amendment of the same club of representatives. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. 155th of the same club of MPs. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. The 156th Amendment of Representative Hajdukovic. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. The 157th Amendment is again the same representative. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. 158th Amendment is the same representative. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. 159th, same MP. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. The 160th Amendment is the same, Representative Hajdukovic. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. 161st Representative Hajdukovic. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. 162. Same agent. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. In 163, the same representative. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. 164th Amendment of MP Katarina Peovic. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. 165th of the same MP. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. 166th Amendment of Representative Bulj. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. 167th Amendment of Representative Bulj. He didn't get the votes he needed. ... 167th Amendment, good. [[Intruder: Speaker not enabled.]] The 167th amendment of the Bulja MPs did not receive the required number of votes. Did we vote 167? Then let's vote on the 167th Amendment of Representative Bulj. He didn't get the votes he needed. The 168th Amendment of Representative Ban Vlahek. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. 169th Representative Rose Vukovac. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. 170th Amendment, MP Kujundzic. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. 171st representative Kujundzic. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. 172nd Representative Bulj. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. 173rd MP Opačak Bilic. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't get the number he needed. What's the matter? We must repeat then, so we repeat the 173rd amendment. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. The 174th representative of Grumoja. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Representative Pavić 175th Amendment. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. The 176th legislator, Martinecevic, has been withdrawn. The 177th representative of Jaksic. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. 178th representative of Glamuzine. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. 179th Representative Milanović Litra. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. The 180th representative, Peovic. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. 181. Green-left block representatives' club. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. 182. Amendment to the Independent List Bridge. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. The 183rd amendment is the same club of representatives. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. The 184th Amendment of the Independent Lists Bridge. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. The 185th Amendment of the Independent Lists Bridge. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. 186. Croatian sovereigns. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. 187 again Croatian sovereigns. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. 188th Amendment of the Croatian Sovereigns. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. 189th again Croatian sovereigns. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. 190th Amendment of the IDS Representatives Club. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. 191st again IDS. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. 192. IDS again. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. 193. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. The same representative of the 194th Amendment. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. 195th Representative Bulj. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. 196th same representative. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. 197th of the same representative. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. 198th Amendment of MP Nadj has been accepted. 199. Party Representatives' Club with Name and Surname, Smart and Glass. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. The 200th Amendment of the same club of MPs. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. The 201st, same club of MPs. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. 202 of the same club of representatives. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. 204, pardon 203. Amendment MOST of Independent Lists. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. 204th, same club of MPs. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. 205th, same club of representatives. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. 206th, same club of MPs. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. The 207th same club of MPs. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. The 208th Amendment of Representative Bulj. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. 208th, same agent. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? No, 209, 209, sorry. The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. 210th Amendment is the same representative. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. 211 and Representative Hajdukovic. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. 212. IDS amendment. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. 213th Amendment, IDS again. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No. 214 again IDS. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. 215th IDS again. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. 216th Amendment of MPs, IDS Representatives Club. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. 217. Party representative club with a name, Smart and Glass. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. 218. The club of the representatives of the Independent Lists. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. 219th of the same club of MPs. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. 220th Amendment of the same club of representatives. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. 221. The club of the representatives of the Independent Lists. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. 222nd Amendment of Representative Bulj. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. 223rd Amendment of Mira Bulja. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. 224. Same agent. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. 225th Representative Lenart. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. 226. Green-left block representatives' club. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. The 227th amendment of MP Peovic. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. 228. The club of the representatives of the Independent Lists. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. 229. It's an independent list bridge club. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. 230th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Bridge of Independent Lists. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. 231st Amendment Club of Green-Left Block Representatives. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. 232. Amendment to the Green-Left Block Representatives Club. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. 233. Green-left block representatives' club. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. Now let's go to the draft amendments to the financial plans. The first is the Croatian Waters Plan. Amendment No. 1 Bridge of Independent Lists. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. Amendment No. Two MPs, Kujundzic. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. Amendment No. 3 Clubs of Representatives of the Independent Lists Bridge. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. 4th Amendment of the same agent. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. Amendment 5 of the Representatives of the Bulls. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. Amendment 6 of the same agent. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't make it. Amendment 7 of the same agent. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. Amendment 8 of the same agent. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. Amendment 9 of the same agent. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. Amendment 10 of the same agent. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. Amendment 11 of the same agent. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. No. 12 Independent List Bridge. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. Amendment 13 of the Representatives of the Bulls. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. Amendment 14 of the same agent. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. Amendment 15 to Representative Bulj again. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. Amendment 16 of the same agent. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. 17th Amendment, MP Kujundzic. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. We are now going to the Croatian Roads Financial Plan. 1st is the amendment of the Independent List Bridge. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't make it. Amendment 2 to the representative of the Grmoi. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? Neither has this amendment. Amendment No. Three MPs, Bull. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. Amendment 4 of the same agent. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. Amendment No. Five MPs, Bull. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. Amendment 6 is the same representative. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. Amendment 7 is the same representative. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. Amendment number 8. The bridge of independent lists. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. Amendment 9. The bridge of independent lists. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. Amendment 10. The bridge of independent lists. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. Amendment 11. The bridge of independent lists. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. Amendment number 12. The bridge of independent lists. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't make it. Amendment number 13. Envoy Sinisha Hajdash Doncic. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. Amendment number 14. Representative Jaksic. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. Amendment 15. The bridge of independent lists. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. Amendment 16. The club of the representatives of the Independent Lists. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. Now I'm only asking for... It's 11:00.31. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 11.33 HOURS]] Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? And then we'll wait for them to come. We'll vote her again, yeah. It is. Please take your seats so we can continue. Here comes Agent Radin, so please sit down so we can continue. So we have the 17th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment 18. The bridge of independent lists. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 19. The bridge of independent lists. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 20. The bridge of independent lists. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 21. The bridge of independent lists. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No. 22. The bridge of independent lists. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. The 23rd Amendment of Representative Bulj. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment 24 of the same agent. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? You can't see Budalić right now, so we'll wait, just a minute. Here it is, we can then, you can register more of it. The amendment didn't go through. Amendment 25, Mr. Bulj. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. Amendment 26. Same agent. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. Amendment 27 to Mr. Bulj. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. Amendment 28. Same agent. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. 29th Amendment is the same representative. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. Amendment 30 of the same agent. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. 31st rep Bulj again. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. 32nd Representative of the Bulls. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. The 33rd Amendment is the same representative. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. The 34th Amendment is the same representative. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. The 35th Amendment of Representative Kujundzic has been withdrawn. Amendment of the 36th Representative, Kujundzic. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. Amendment of Representative Kujundzic's 37th. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. Amendment 38 of the same agent. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. Now before we go colleagues and colleagues, I'd like to ask you if you're here to at least let us work in peace, and if you want to talk, you can be outside the hall or in any of the other halls, and here we do. Let's move on. The 39th Amendment of Representative Kujundzic. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. Amendment 40 of the same agent. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. Amendment 41, MP Pavlichek. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. The 42nd Amendment of Representative Bulj. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. Amendment of the 43rd Representative of the Bulls. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. 44th Amendment of the Independent List Bridge. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. Amendment to the 45th Representative of the Bulls. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. The 46th Amendment is the same representative. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. 47th Amendment of the same agent. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. 48th of the same agent. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. 49th is the same representative. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. Amendment 50 is the same representative. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. Amendment 51, same agent. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. The 52nd Amendment of the same agent. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. 53rd of the same representative. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. 54th same agent. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. 55th of the same agent. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. 56th same agent. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. We are now going to the Financial Plan of the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund. 1st Amendment of Representative Bulj. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. 1st Amendment of Representative Miro Bulj. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. Amendment number 3 Representatives' Club of Independent Lists Bridges. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. Amendment No. 4. The club of the representatives of the Independent Lists. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't make it through, and we're going to go to the last amendment. This is the proposal for a financial plan of the HZ-Infrastructure, one amendment by representatives of the Tušek has been accepted. The other amendments were not submitted in the article, in accordance with the law, so now we move to a vote. Dear ladies and gentlemen, we are voting on the proposal for a state budget on the basis of Article. 91. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the The Rules of Procedure of HS. The adoption of the state budget requires a majority of all MPs, i.e. 76 votes. A colleague called Mrak-Taritash, asked for it, you did, you didn't, you didn't have a break, you didn't, then you're right.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u16192	Thank you very much, esteemed President HS. I am looking for a 10 minute break, but a really physical break of 10 minutes on the subject of the budget and on the subject of the latest consultations on the state budget. We appreciate the state budget for 2021. An extremely important political document. The budget as it was made and with a desire not to accept any amendment to the opposition is one conservative budget that does not make a step and does not work, does not allow the future of the Republic of Croatia. We are already according to all the criteria when we are judged with other EU countries at the very bottom. At the very bottom, we're tied to all indicators. 2021 C.E. I'm sure it'll be a challenging year. Let's hope that the really coronal vaccine is in preparation and that the battle with the crown will stop somewhere in the spring, but we'll be expected by a number of other things. So, the Green Plan is one of the EU instruments that is extremely important for our country. It's extremely important for a step into the future. When you look at the amendments given by the opposition clubs, whether they're in the left end of the spectrum, right or center, are the amendments we wanted to step forward. You decided not to accept them. But for this country and for a step further, there will be some consensus. The first consensus that will be needed, I am sure, and this is about the 2030 strategy of development of the Republic of Croatia because we will have to ask ourselves a question and give an answer what kind of country we want, what kind of business are these, what kind of interest is that, what kind of investment in the future? So I really ask that we really take a 10 minute break and that we can again consult and see what our position will be in the vote on the Republic of Croatia's budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u16193	I have to admit, I don't understand you, all of you together. In very harsh words, you left the assembly and now you're coming back here, looking for a break for some big thinking. But in order to show the width, I'll grant you a break of 10 minutes. It's 11:00 P.M. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING AT 12:00 A.M.]] Dear colleagues and colleagues, I will now put to the vote of the National Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2021 and a projection for 2022 and 2023. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? I find that 125 MPs and MPs voted, 76 were in favour of, 0 abstentions, 49 against, so the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia was adopted for 2021 and a projection for 2022 and 2023. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. C. 3. c. 3. The Budget Law will now be voted on by us on decisions to give consent to the proposals made by extra budget beneficiaries for 2021 and projections for 2022 and 2023. I propose that we do what we have done with the budget rebalancing to vote unitedly on all decisions, these are decisions on granting consent to the 2021 and 2023 financial plan of the Croatian Waters and projections for 2022 and 2023, decision on granting consent to the Croatian Roads financial plan for 2021 and projection for 2022 and 2023, decision on granting consent to the Fund for Environmental Protection and Energy Efficiency for 2021 and projection for 2022 and 2023, decision on granting consent to the Financial Plan of the State Agency for the Insurance of Deposits and Rehabilitation of Banks for 2021 and 2023., decision to give consent to the 2022 and 2023., decision on the adoption of the 2022 and 2022 recommendations on the implementation of the 2022 and the 2022 recommendations of the 2022 and the 2023. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that 123 MPs and MPs, 76 for and 47 against, have voted, and decisions have thus been taken to give consent to the 2021 financial plans and projections for '22. and in '23. In accordance with the proposal of the Legislative Committee, I am voting on the proposal for a conclusion which reads: "The Section of the HS shall be empowered to carry out, together with the representatives of the proposings, and to edit the text of the National Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2021. and decision of the Finance Plans of Croatian Waters, Croatian Roads, Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund, State Agency for the Insurance of Deposits and Rehabilitation of Banks, HZZO, Centre for Restructure and Sales of Croatian highways, Rijeka-Zagreb highways, HZ-Pustnik transport, HZ-Infrastructure before their publication in the National Journal." Who is for? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that 117 MPs and MPs, 99 for, 4 abstentions and 14 against, have voted, and a conclusion has been reached in the text as proposed by the Committee on Legislatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17563	I would like to thank President HS, my dear colleagues and colleagues, the Honorable Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Mr. Minister. To surround the public's private life you girls, forget private matters, do public good, write it in the Prince's court and tell officials of the Dubrovnik Republic in which they must behave the duty they are entrusted with. The article written centuries ago is current today. It tells public officials how, without conflict of interest, without fees of private particular interests, individuals should behave and fight for the public, fight for the state. The current message today is something Mr. Coric did not stick to in his conduct of duty. However, as a member of the government, as a minister, he made it clear by his actions that he had a public interest, a concern for the common good, and at the expense of the particular interests of any individual or individual company. Mr. Ćoric once again showed the true face of HDZ and HDZ's way of managing the state, complete concern for the public with a focus on the private interests of people who are close to either party, or individuals in the party. Mr. Ćorić once again showed that as much as Mr. Plenkovic tried to show the opposite, he was headed by Sanader, he was headed by Karamarko or today Mr. Plenkovic. This is also witnessed by a number of newspaper inscriptions, a number of articles that have exposed HDZ affairs, and lately more and more bear witness to court rulings, both those in the Fami Media affair and today's important HDZ member, Mr Lucic, who tried to bribe journalists to hide his marifetteluks, but we will also discuss them in the assembly and they will come out in public light. We in the SDP cannot accept such a way of managing the state, we are obliged to react to such behaviour. Just at the time of the great health and economic crisis in which the state is present today, when engagement will be needed, and that special engagement of each of us that the consequences of the crisis are as little of our duty as possible to prevent us from participating in the management of the state, those who have shown their behaviour that they are not worthy of it. And that's why, that's why we're asking for Minister Coric's recall. That is why we will continue to refer to interpretations and seek the impeachment of all those for whom it is clear that they are breaking the law, that they are neglecting the public in order to deepen privately. This is our task, which the citizens of this country have entrusted to us in the elections because only by bringing out what is bad in the light of the public, only by speaking about what is wrong, you can prevent such things from happening again, and we have to do so. But what is the crime of Mr. Coric? First of all, his role in the wind power plant affair, where he has favored a private investor who will make billions of dollars, which we will all pay, by paying the citizens of the Republic of Croatia for a higher electricity price. Mr. Ćorić's crime is also illegal employment from the Krka National Park to Mr. Kovacevic and beyond. Every day, almost every day from citizens we get information about some new illegal employment of Mr. Coric, we have to respond to that. But that's not all colleagues and colleagues. Do you remember 4 years ago when the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia announced the purchase of the INE, many forgot about it because in those 4 years most of whom Mr. Djoric had just been in charge of the process, nothing was happening. Or I will correct myself, not that there was nothing going on, but nothing useful happened because Mr. Ćorić, in the service of his Hungarian masters, did much to reduce the value of these INEs and indeed the question today, after 4 years, everything that Croatia will ever buy from the INU, which will actually benefit this country and its citizens. In short, although you from the ruling majority will support Mr. Coric, as you support absolutely everything the Government puts before you, the departure of Mr. Coric is a question of defining the character of Croatian politics. Whether you show Mr. Ćorić your thumb down, as you should or continue to support him whatever he does will depend on whether the message from the door of the Prince's Court of Dubrovnik will be only part of the glorious history of this country or indeed become a motto under which we will act as a duty entrusted to us by the citizens. Dear colleagues and colleagues from the ruling majority of decisions are on you, and more detailed reasons why Mr. Ćoric must go will be explained by my colleague Ahmetovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17564	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, respected prime minister, respected ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs, 40 representatives of the Croatian Parliament submitted a proposal to this House to raise trust issues to Tomislav Ćorić, Minister of Economy and Sustainable Development in the Government of the Republic of Croatia because of his moral and political responsibility by the basis of the procedures and failures he made within his work and jurisdiction. We have witnessed in the previous session of parliaments and previous governments that certain ministers were questioned here in this place, however, not ministers and ministers immediately left their posts, saved them from the defected hands of political bags that had not issued their ideals because they had never had them, but they betrayed citizens who had given them their trust, but those shaken ministers and ministers had to leave a little later when the pressure of the public became so much so that the prime minister's chair and good ratings in the media space. To avoid accidental opposition, the opposition as many as some think the opposite is not particularly glad when it has to question the work of individual ministers or the entire government. And that is why we are not pleased when we have to ask for a vote of no confidence to a minister because the requirement for mistrust implies trust, inability to manage state or incriminating actions that take this country's right to the future. And you can now mock whoever you want, but there is nothing more pathetic about it, in both political and human terms, when we have to look helplessly at the waste of public interest in favour of soulless cousin capitalism that is rolled over the back of generations of people in Croatia under the rule of always one and the same party and its commissioners. And precisely because of this cousinly and non-poustic management of Croatia we are here today. In public space, large affairs involving Minister Ćoric are regularly reported, resulting in significant damage to the state budget, the budget of public enterprises and Croatian national interests. Minister Coric himself says in one of his extravagant statements that he knows he is not the most popular person in public space. Is unfavorable because of the possible structures that appear in the media so that he prefers to declare it or that media headlines are the fruit of its hurricane activity on the Croatian economy, energy and environmental protection. We signatories of this proposal think this is different, and that's what we're going to do during this debate and we're going to argue. The affair of the wind power plant, as recently explained during the interpretation, Minister Ćoric is undeniably responsible for the unfounded acceleration of the project's process against the opinion of his own Nature Protection Board and Croatian Environment and Nature Agency. By doing so, Minister Ćoric has raised the need for a wind power plant project at Krš-Pađene to carry out the process of making the main assessment of the project's acceptability for the ecological network. In parallel, as the judicial authorities have reported, there is a reasonable doubt that the investor bribed public authorities to speed up the process of realising the project and gained no material benefit. Due to the expansion of the investigation and the suspicion that he has guessed through his influence at the Lager company ministry, to ensure that Lager's companies are provided with the largest purchase price of electricity with investigative actions, Minister Coric's assistant, Domagoj Validzic, is covered. And no matter how hard the minister tried to cover his predecessor Ivan Vrdoljak, there remain indisputable facts, firstly that he allowed the destruction of the natural habitat in order to unfoundedly speed up the project and by retaining the status of the privileged producer of electricity, provided the material benefit to the private investor and secondly, that his assistant, Domagoj Validzic, was covered by the investigation on suspicion of being granted to this particular investor and precisely regarding the purchase price of electricity. The NP Krk affair during the election or appointment of NP Director Ms. Nele Slavica, Minister Tomislav Ćoric failed to conduct the procedure in a transparent manner, so there was no transparent score in the minister's view of the deciding criteria for the candidate's interview. After the Administrative Court in Split annulled the appointment decision and returned the procedure for re-nomination between the already registered candidates, Minister Coric again makes a decision and appoints the same colleague, Nela Slavica, as director. The most sympathic allegation in the government's statement on this point is that the government of the Republic of Croatia under the leadership of HDZ, Andrej Plenkovic, points out that the State Inspectorate of the Republic of Croatia, under the leadership of HDZ, Andrija Mikulić, rejected the request of another candidate to exercise the right of advantage by the Law on Defence, and thus justify that the employment of the HDZ by HDZ Minister Ćorić was pure as a tear. What's hilarious in this case is the fact that Mrs. Nela Slavica, along with the HDZ party card, also had that HNS, and as a gunman in the Wild West, made an hour later, to help her with her employment. INA, MOL and Janaf Tomislav Ćorić, as a resolute minister, is responsible for the damage caused by INA and the state budget by the memorandum of understanding between INA and Janaf, which allows the transport of oil from Sisak to Hungary, along the way, the memorandum was signed or written in English so that the Hungarian bosses can understand it. Minister Ćoric co-signed the memorandum and hid it from the Croatian public, as is currently unreachable to the Croatian public with the basis of which the level of damage to the memorandum would be precisely determined for both the INA and the state budget. INA achieved 1.2 billion kuna in the first nine months, MOL naturally earned a net profit of $1 billion. There are outstanding questions, at which price INA sells to or hands over our oil to MOL, at which price INA paid concession fee per meter for fields from which it draws the oil it teaches to MOL, does the Croatian public know that the level of the concession fee depends on the price at which you sold this exploited oil? Why did INA not offer Croatian oil in a public tender and achieve the highest market value of this oil? Why is this oil not stored by the Croatian Agency for Mandatory Oil and Oil Products for the purpose of Croatian stockpiles? Whose oil, what quality, at which price does the agency buy, at which price in the INA market buys oil for the needs of the Rijeka refinery, who in INA was responsible for an invalid concession for the construction and economic use of the Urinj industrial port as well as maritime goods outside the port area, thus preventing the launch of a modernisation of the Rijeka Refinery? Can such amateurism be called intentional or not intentional? Why is the expansion of Janaf’s storage capacity of crude oil and derivatives and the construction of Omislje’s products and the capacity of nearly 2 million metres [2 million m] cubic like Trieste, which has almost seven times the traffic? Who was supposed to single out these works on Yanaf, is it maybe the Elektro Center Friday? I'll tell you that. Minister Ćorić, by subsigning the INA memo in 2018, made it possible for Janafa to shut down the Sisak oil refinery. In fact, this memo could not have been signed if you as a minister had not approved the entire process of closing the Sisak Oil Refinery. While Croatian oil could not be transported by Janaf from Sisak to Hungary, MOL had no conditions for a permanent suspension of oil processing in the Sisak oil refinery. MOL has tried for many years and failed to fight to make a difference in its facility so that the oil can go from Sisak to Hungary, but only until you as an energy expert have become a minister of energy and environmental protection. On the other hand, the delay coker facility you claim to have been some compromise on this decision was the obligation of MOL to make it out of the 2003 contract. Why didn't you make it? Not just you. With your signature on this memo, you pressured the Yanaf Administration to take this final blow to the INA which seriously abused your position influencing the damage to strategic interest and independence of the Republic of Croatia. In the case of... to decide on a conflict of interest, the commission opened the case on its own initiative on the connection of Minister Ćorić with the President of the Administration of Janaf Dragan Kovacevic to the main suspect in the Janaf affair in which corrupt actions enabled the acquisition of non-essential material benefit to the private company. And not to spin that story, which has already been done in public for a long and wide time, I am calling on USKOK to examine the overall relationship between INA-MOL-Janaf because there is a reasonable doubt that the activities surrounding the closure of the Refinery in Sisak Janaf's services are motivated by the corruption background of the MOL assisting MOL to close the Sisak refinery. In democratic countries that hold to themselves these arguments and the allegations I have made would not even have to go through parliamentary procedures, only one of these affairs would be enough to thank the Prime Minister for his minister's services and show the door. But this is Croatia, for years we have had the opportunity to hear about the failures and serious accusations of the work of Minister Ćorić about him being recorded by television contributions the minister does not want to answer legitimate questions to the public. Here we come to the most important, political responsibility, Minister Tomislav Ćoric does nothing on his own and without support, and he draws support from Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic's trust. Tomislav Ćorić is either incompetent or acting with intent. I hope he's just incompetent. Croatia has so far had incompetent ministers, it would have survived another one, but if all this action with the intention of Croatia has no time because such action has suffered all these years. That is why I call on all of you MPs in HS to be responsible for your voters and for Croatia and to vote for the mistrust of the Minister of Economy and Sustainable Development, Mr Tomislav Ćorić. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17565	Thank you, too. Now we're going to go to the replicas, first I'm asking you to clear the pay phone. He has 11 replicas and a colleague, Ahmetović 7. If someone isn't registered by accident, you'll signal me eventually when it's over. Here you go, comrade Grbin, here we go, first replica of colleague Pavliček, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17566	Dear colleague Grbin, Prime Minister, Minister Coric. Well, here's four years ago. You've become, Minister Coric has become minister. If we were to conduct a survey among Croatian citizens today, 80% would not be able to tell who Tomislav Ćoric is, an even smaller number would say at the head of which ministry you are. But that part of the little one that you'd say would say that unfortunately you're the minister with whom at least in the media space the most common affair. Let's just think of some of them, the controversial memo that allowed oil processing in Slovakia and Hungary, the increase in quotas for large solar power plants, the association at the club with former Chief Janaf and a number of others. I'm afraid the greatest reach is in your four years. Ministerial work meeting with young Swedish activist Greta and unfortunately the public will remember you by that alone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17567	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17568	I thank you, and in all the things you have listed, and here is my colleague Ahmetovic and I have missed other things, such as the situation with the increase in waste prices a year ago and then after that, the decision of the Constitutional Court, which was suspended by Mr. Coric for the government. So, the low of what was made wrong and the low of what was done is illegal in the case of Mr. Coric it's amazing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17569	Comrade Frankovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17570	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear counterpart Grbin "Brown the private public's private audience," forget about the private and take care of the public says at the Prince's Court in the city of Dubrovnik. The greatest hypocrisy on your part is to quote this. Why do I say that? It was you and I who replicated each other in the moments when the Law on Morality was passed where legally condemned persons cannot run. You were against it. Your government wanted Dubrovnik to sell to others, give concessions to the port terminal to privates instead of the city of Dubrovnik. The Excelsior Hotel sold your government for a million marks and gave up Dubrovnik once more. Please, when you quote, quote anything, but don't mention Dubrovnik.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17571	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17572	Dear Mr. Frankovic "Brown the privateum of the public girls" is not the only thing from the Dubrovnik Republic that tells us that we should act in public duty. You also have a 1272 Statute. which should teach you today in HDZ how to fight corruption. At the time when we discussed the law concerning local officials, I warned of something that has not been corrected today, and it is an interesting situation that the provisions concerning running are not the same as the provisions concerning the termination of office, so it can happen neatly that someone's duty does not stop as it happened and then at the moment you're talking about, and that it can't run afterwards. Therefore, Mr. Frankovic, you who are exclusively and only with the help of the law become mayor do not call others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17573	It's Djakic's turn now, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17574	Thank you very much, Mr. President HS, Mr. Prime Minister of Croatia, Minister. A colleague of the Ćo, a colleague of the Grbin, when you set out to explain your accusations in the motion to initiate proceedings against Minister Ćorić, you started with a salva attack on HDZ by referring to the marifettelus of hers. I would even appreciate it if it were reality and truth, that the rightful judgments were passed. But I'll remind you, for the sake of correctness and your honesty, you've had time to talk about your marifettes. I'll mention only one high-ranking state official, which is Nada Cavlović Smiljanac, who you've put on the head of the tax administration as a director, and she's had several executive procedures on her behalf for using an excessive card and you've lifted the check, security For her, she was sentenced to 2.5. Prison. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much, dear colleague.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17575	Comrade Djakic, thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17576	Dear Mr. Djakic, when a SDP officer breaks the law and is punished for it, I will not defend him, I will be extremely sorry, unfortunately this is happening, and I am not glad. But unlike you, I don't defend my law enforcement colleagues, because if the law is broken, then whoever did it must answer. You didn't say a single word in Mr. Coric's defense today. When you mention marifetteluke, I mentioned them directly regarding Mr. Lucic. Mr. Lucic, your co-worker this morning, your party colleague tried to bribe a journalist who wrote about his illegal actions. I haven't heard from you once that you've been fenced from what your party colleague did.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17577	Thank you. Comrade Jelkovac, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17578	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Comrade Grbin, I ask you by name and last name to tell us who the Prime Minister was in 2013. When did HEP's daughter leave a 100% stake in the Krš-Paden project that had already invested 10 million kuna? Who, after that, is also at the end of the year to sign the approval to allow the CMP a preferential tariff and who then did not work in the public interest, whether it is perhaps the government of the SDP, the party that you are headed today, the president.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17579	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17580	Dear colleagues Jelkovac, the notorious fact is that the electricity from renewable sources is more expensive than it comes from environmentally unacceptable sources. It's more expensive temporarily, because the long-term adverse effects of fossil fuels will be felt for decades. And for this reason not only the Republic of Croatia but almost all EU members in one way or another subsidise the production of electricity from renewable sources. And that's good, and that's what we need to support. And that would be accepted by the Croatian public, such as Mr. Coric, who, by their behavior, have disgusted the citizens. And they disgusted how? By what was prescribed and what was found to be true for the investor to be qualified to receive incentives that Mr. Coric did not reduce it by signing a pen to one who has failed to meet the conditions [[Intruder: Thank you.]] He made subsidies possible, and that's against the law. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17581	A fellow coat of arms, please, let's stick to the weather. Here's my colleague Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17582	Thank you, Mr. President. When you mention Dubrovnik I will tell you that in the 16th century Marin Držić said that there are people who are serious and people who wish to recognize these people in Croatia today would be those who care about the health of our citizens at the time of the biggest pandemic, who are concerned about the insurance of pensions for all Croatian citizens, people are seriously those who care about paying for salaries, who care about how to keep every job, and people thank today are those who are circulating in Croatia, who are obstructing the work of parliament, who are obstructing the work of staff, who, after 5 months after the election, can't reconcile with the defeat they have experienced, and these are such symical and pamphlets of service, to blacken those who care and who can't live with the defeat that they have suffered after 5 months after the election. to find people seriously. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17583	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17584	Mr. Bacicu may be ashamed of you. On the day that we have the largest number of infected in Croatia, when Croatia by the number of people infected by hundreds of thousands of people arrives all EU member states because you and your political party have done nothing for 5 months. You call others and boast of your failures, shame may be upon you. If you really were people who really cared about the public rather than the private particular interests, you would seriously wonder what your government was doing. Both in the spring and now measures that should protect all citizens and citizens of this country depend on when the HDZ elections will take place. We're waiting for Vukovar and holidays to introduce measures, we're jeopardizing the defensive population that you've persuaded to come into the memory column, you've put people's lives and health at risk, and you'd be people here for real. Mr. Bacic, you're not that.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17585	Thank you very much. All I ask is that we avoid these assessments of shame on you either and so, everyone has the right to state their position, and we will assess whether or not there has been a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here's my colleague Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17586	Thank you, Mr. President. A colleague of the coat of arms has been injured by Article 238. Rules of Procedure, in the absence of arguments a contrast he is clearly as usual serving by argument ad hominem, insulting without arguments and in fact it is his style and way of working. Unfortunately, however, the president of the main opposition party does so. Perhaps you should be ashamed to run, you were the birth father, the initiator of the attempted destruction. constitutional decisions of the civil protection headquarters in Croatia and you were aiming to [[Intruder: Thank you.]] All his decisions fail so that you through [[Intruder: Thank you, colleague Bačić.]] The bad work of headquarters tried to be stronger. [[Intruder: Comrade Bačić thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17587	Comrade Bačić, please, you're getting And now what? [[I'd already be out for this.]] I'm the only one who can get a word out of your yelling. [[Intruder: This is already an impartial session.]] So, I wanted to give my colleague Bačić a warning because he's out of time, as I'm giving HDZ representatives, and that's a normal thing, look at the statistics. So I don't understand what you want, you won't achieve absolutely anything with your pressure, but you're just showing how unobstructed you are. Here you go, fellow Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17588	Thank you, Your Honor. Article 238, I really must respond to the tone and choice of words, anything can be said in a decent way if there are arguments. These insults that have already gone too far in our Croatian Parliament, and they have been coming several days by the opposition are inappropriate. Today is the day of fighting violence, and I think this kind of verbal aggression really causes one violent behavior and reaction.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17589	Thank you very much. So, I've warned a fellow coat of arms not to use that expression, shame on you either, and please don't do it another. I thought it was enough, and I ask you that if Col. Pavić had a similar remark that we would now resolve it and that we would no longer open that question. And I'm asking you to discuss the arguments and not really the insults. Comrade Hajdukovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17590	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleague Grbin, what you described is only the last crown I would say on the modus operand of HDZ, and this modus operandi could be called Croatia is loved by robbery. We could also say that HDZ leads this country not as a country that cares about the party's members, but as a lazy one, as something to share, something they see as prey. And instead of dealing with and solving our citizens' problems, and there are a lot of them, here's what we can read about, according to the newspapers, who's that Coric if I let him, he can just park my car, that's supposed to say about that minister sitting there, the man who enjoys protecting the prime minister who also sits there. Here's how they treat state property, according to a public company that is more specific to HEP, which should provide our citizens with energy at acceptable prices.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17591	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17592	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear counterpart Hajdukovic, I will remind you, while we are talking about HEP that one of the ideas of HDZ nearly 4 years ago was that just by privatising HEP, therefore the company involved in the production of electricity, the energy of the future is financed by the purchase of INA, the companies involved in the production of oil and petroleum products, what should probably become the energy of the past very quickly. And this is just another indicator of lack of vision and lack of knowledge in HDZ when it comes to managing public good and public interests. Unfortunately, and something about it was mentioned by counterpart Ahmetovic, a minor problem is where they do not know, and far bigger, where they know how to grab. And with Mr. Coric, I'm afraid both elements are present.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17593	Comrade Peric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17594	Dear President, dear colleague. I will remind you that the CEMP contract was launched back in 2003, so 17 years ago and that Krš-Pajene is one project of 4 projects that was implemented after many years and I will remind you that in 2013, 10 contracts with HROTE were concluded at the end of the year, 10 contracts with HROTE exactly the same way it was with that company. So, when you call here Minister Ćorić, then you have to take a deeper time where something was going on and is it possible that 6 governments should be responsible for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17595	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17596	Dear colleagues, I apologize in advance to both you and everyone else who listens to us, for repeating myself. If we want to produce energy from environmentally acceptable forms of production, this energy is still more expensive in Croatia today, as well as in many other countries, that energy should be subsidized so that its price is not unacceptable to citizens. When we talk about these subsidies, there is a problem, and we talked about this problem, and you don't want to hear it, when it comes to these subsidies, then it is necessary to ensure that those who will receive subsidies meet certain conditions and that there is Coric on the stage. And there Ćoric in the days after he became a minister, reduces the conditions in order to please an investor who could not meet them and that is the problem That's exactly what I'm [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17597	Comrades of Juričev-Martinchev, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17598	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear Grbin, you say, we in the SDP are not prepared to accept such state governance, political staffing, etc., so it is the SDP's Kukuriku Government that has suspended the call for appointments of management presidents, directors of institutions, etc., and prescribed political staffing, so that it immediately had affairs at the very beginning, even criticised from the EU. We had appointments in the INA supervisory committees, party books were the main criteria of appointment and employment, political staffing in the cabinets of ministers and up to 12 people without criteria and without competition were employed. A human scandal at HAC where a card friend of SDP's minister is employed. And when we mention Krka National Park, let us not forget that Milanović's cousin became the technical director of the national park after 23 years of retirement.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17599	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17600	Dear colleagues, what you're saying is true would be terrible. And the truth is a little different. The SDP when it is in power to change the law in a way that it is perfectly clear who and how it comes into service and how it leaves the service. He's leaving with a change of government, he's not staying, he's not employed until he retires. The HDZ then changes it, then conducts false competitions in which miracles, always beats people precisely from that party or with that party connected, with one key difference. When HDZ loses power, they stay in the system and remain a burden that this system and this country pulls down. The fact that you don't want to admit it, well, unfortunately it's not just yours, it's the problem for all of us.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17601	Comrade Pavić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17602	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear Mr. Grbin, so what did Minister Coric do in the project so awful... so what we saw is that he only approved to reduce the number of pillars to, to approve the investor from 3 megawatts to.../incomprehensible/... from 2 megawatts to 3 megawatts, i.e. to reduce the number of columns from 71 to 48. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Less coverage, better environmental protection, no more power, no more money. He followed the contracts your government agreed on. Remember that Milanovic's government changed the tariff to 10. I mean, it's amazing, 30 and 31.12. 9 contracts just went in before the tariff change. We at the Old Year, Mr. Grbin always closed M+3, we were worried that EU funds were being used, you were setting tariffs for your users on the Old Year. It's Milanovic's government.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17603	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17604	Dear Mr. Pavic, I'll say it again, it's not my problem. You have a nature protection authority, you have an agency that says what conditions need to be met, which give a negative opinion. You have a previous minister who does not want to favour the investor and then you have a change in the head of the ministry, then you have Mr. Coric's arrival and then you have one move with a feather that has provided someone with billions that we, including you, through your electricity bill, will have to pay, and that there are no conditions for that, are the conditions Mr. Coric has done otherwise. The only move he puts on someone is to secure billions. If that's okay with you, I don't.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17605	Comrade Murganic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17606	Thank you. Your Honor, Mr. Grbin, you say that the citizens have chosen you to point out the irregularities that the government makes, but you are really doing it in a boring way and in an unsuspecting way. It's the one time you've been called off by the minister and, of course, it's unsuccessful because you don't have the right arguments. If you had them in the interpletion that was already last week, you'd probably prove something, that you have arguments, and that you're hearty, you'd probably react when your government signed these contracts. And as for the staffing, it's not true that you picked up and replaced all directors of social care institutions after 2 months when you came to power and look at miracles 2 months before you went again changing the law so that they would stay and have a job in the system. There's nothing to brag about.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17607	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17608	Dear Mrs. Murganic, let me remind you. So, HDZ ministers for whom we asked for impeachment, and they had to leave, Mr. Kujundzic for illegal work, Ms. Sadac for illegal work, Mr. Tolusic for illegal work, Mr. Maric for illegal work, Mrs. Dalic for illegal work, Mr. Bariš for illegal work, Mr. Kustević for illegal work, and you know who else, you may know who else I left out, Mrs. Murganic for illegal work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17609	We have two injuries to the Rules of Procedure. Comrade Boric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17610	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Mr. Grbin again injured Article 238 falsely brings up here certain false things that he said against the law I don't think it was found anywhere except in his head, when we would now start those 10 from their coalition government Kukuriu, from Mr. Linic, Ostojić, the other Ostojić, Jovanovic, etc., who ended in difficult affairs simply to him it was all normal then and he led this team in a slightly different composition, but led them in a way that they supported everything.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17611	Thank you very much. So, a colleague of the Grbins is talking about anti-cancer work, you probably have no evidence for those statements because none of these ministers you listed have been found to have worked against the law, and especially not for Minister Murganic, or our colleague here right now. So you really went beyond what I think is acceptable, I won't give you a warning, but please don't do that. Here you go, fellow Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17612	Thank you. I'm not going to respond with an insult, but I would just like to say that it's unfortunate that the tragedies that took place in the system were attributed to the minister, it could be ineffectiveness, it could be anything, of course, that's what happened, but dear Mr. Grbin, it's not against the law. I certainly wouldn't look you in the eye like this, and you can't look me in the eye because I didn't do anything illegal. Don't act, you can because there's no...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17613	My colleague Murganić, please, please, we must be aware, therefore, that every word spoken, which is either offensive or not true, and that someone is in a position to break the law which is something that is really for people who deal with politics, is the ultimate point, so please avoid this kind of rhetoric because then these situations will happen. The last replica for a colleague of the coat of arms is representative of the Dark Taritash, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17614	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterpart Grbin, therefore, in a series of replicas that came from the ruling referencing or impeachment was for Minister Ćoric in the 15th government, and while ruling all the time talking about the 12th government, behind this I must remind her was 13 and 14, and this is 15. In 14 and 15, Minister Coric is his third portfolio. Before that, he was in the 14th government minister of labour and pension system, and then he's the minister of environmental and energy protection, and this is his third resort. Maybe I missed something because I didn't hear from any of my colleagues from HDZ that he told you in the replica what you're talking about, so Minister Coric is the best minister that he can be, so he went to the third resort, so it's a minister who can be in any vault and who can manage and rule in any vault. That's what I expected the ruling to say. I didn't hear, maybe you did. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17615	Thank you. Here, here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17616	Dear Mrs. Taritash, you didn't hear that, and right now I'm going to tell you and you won't because he just didn't. He is not a good minister, but the fact that someone is not a good minister unfortunately was too rarely a criterion for him to leave, and in that case we would probably have to regularly recall everyone in the government. However, not only is he not a good minister, he is a minister who directly damaged the interests of the Republic of Croatia with his work, and therefore he has to leave, and he will not leave because the ruling majority has agreed and because the ruling majority obviously does not care about the public interest but only the private one, and we have now had the opportunity to hear it from the ruling majority's representatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17617	Now I would only ask you to delete the pay phone and go now, the replicas go to the presentation of MP Ahmetovic. We've got them seven, first order of business, fellow Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17618	Thank you very much, Your Honor. My colleague Ahmetovic says two words of hilarious and amateurism here I read as well as Hajdukovic from the media. We discover a young SDP hope punished for violating the Labour Act ended up in antiquity. In 2014, the head of the Municipality of Omisalj employs a man without qualifications and without sufficient training as director of a municipal company in his municipality. Of course, she's being punished by the Criminal Court, but she ends up out of date. The court failed in 4 years to check the 3 papers, internships, qualifications and public tender as scheduled. So what now? We teach moral lessons. I ask you, will you continue to be Chief Omis, will you run because you set the criteria for Mr. Ćorić or will you continue your journey and will you ask Mr. Mayor of our Primorje-Gorski County not to run too, because he also has a headmaster who has held him at the headship for years, and he shouldn't because we don't have qualifications until he replaced him when he realized he wasn't there. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Here, your opinion on that?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17619	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17620	Thank you very much. Your Honor, it's very nice, so when a member of the HDZ points to irregularities, it's very ugly to miss telling the truth and correct information at the same time. Namely, those who have instructed you should collect all relevant information, and just as they sent incorrect and incomplete information to that editor of the Obscuary Portal, so you should also be informed that the decision was annulled by the High Court, and then returned to the retrial, but you in HDZ were not able to train the judicial system to do your job, so the judiciary couldn't have said it yourself because of you and your inability to make a final decision and, of course, once again confirm the integrity of the solution. And to give you as a motive to find the final HDZ candidate in the Omistry I will run again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17621	Comrade Ivanovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17622	Thank you very much, Mr. President. If I had not entered this 10th meeting of the Croatian Parliament as a parliamentary representative, you would never have seen this much of the righteous on the left hand side of the assembly, you would have remained deprived and you would not have seen and witnessed this kind of hajika that you are leading, especially you, Mrs Ahmetovic, according to the government of Andrej Plenović. You are not the target, the ultimate target Minister Ćoric, it is absolutely not, you can see what is not recorded in recent Croatian history when it comes to political work that 75 MPs, regardless of ideological, political or any difference, are united to prove to the Croatian people that HDZ is the worst party that beat you in the elections that took place only a few months ago. Isn't that embarrassing?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17623	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17624	Thank you very much. I'll take that right, so on behalf of the entire opposition and SDP's Club of Representatives and all the other clubs, I'll finally congratulate HDZ for winning the election a few months ago, so those people are suffering for this congratulatory, let's give them a round of applause, I'm really inviting you. It's the only thing HDZ wants to know is that they won the election. [[Applause.]] And I'm surprised you dare say such a structure. So despite the world-wide differences, you've stood together to defend the rule of law. That the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, the entire opposition stands together to defend, defend your interests, the interest of rights in the Republic of Croatia regardless of our world-wide differences, and we are proud of that.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17625	Comrade Habjan, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17626	This is allowed now, tossing.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17627	No, I won't, I'll allow it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17628	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17629	But you don't have to tell me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17630	I'm asking, I'm a young representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17631	I know what to do. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17632	Dear colleagues, here you are for 15 minutes here talking about crime, related capitalism, wild west, wind power plant, national park, INI, you mentioned here amateurism. And all of what you wanted to display here as illegal acts as a crime you managed to write on the page and a half of your proposal to raise the issue of trust to Minister Coric. This article you handed over, I'd say it was a very bad copy of your war on the interpretation of Minister Coric's work two weeks ago. I was expecting really after that debate about the wind power plant project, so Krš-Padene, which you were familiar with all the facts that you would at least fix. And that just shows that you're not into the truth, you're into cheap pulsism. And I'm glad that my colleague, Boric, mentioned this case here because you immediately found yourself attacked and immediately started calling for the truth. Here you go, pals, the truth is important.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17633	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17634	Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. However, here in the name of truth I will read a letter, respected Mirella I have worked in Plinacro for 15 years, this is the kind of robbery and crime I have not experienced or heard that it happened anywhere, at least not in this proportion. In fact, even a year ago, a tender for the Zlobin-Omisalj gas pipeline was launched with an estimated value of 162 million kuna, imagine the offer community Friday, Monter, Machine installation with 295 million kuna and of course the competition was not cancelled but was accepted. Do you know what the value of the work of the Zlobin-Omisalj gas pipeline is today, over 450 million kuna. So, from the initial 133 million kuna to 450 million kuna, watch out for Monter, Stoymontage, Friday. That's true.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17635	Comrade Reiner, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17636	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, respected colleagues, so I don't know what word he would use to mention at all, and dares even mention the name, they probably think that all Croatian citizens are suffering from amnesia because they have repeated the truth so many times, but let's remember what is true, which the government has sold 25% of INE plus the gold shares with which the Hungarians then ruled INA. Whose government was that, the SDP government? And now you dare say something about INA and everything else that's been going on and especially what's going on today and it's not happening. Well, you gave INA to the Hungarians, and you think people They forget all about it. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17637	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17638	Dear colleague Reiner, you are much more experienced and remember longer so I will remind you obviously you have forgotten. So in 2003, the SDP government sold 25% plus 1 shares without management rights in the Racan era. And what have you done so far? You sold everything you could and of course in the Hernadia-Sanader deal you sold management rights, but also something else, you sold the energy resources of the Republic of Croatia, you sold the public interest, you sold hope to the children of the Republic of Croatia, you sold the future, you sold everything you could sell, and the saddest thing is that you sold it cheaply.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17639	Comrade Bauk, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17640	It's only a minute. So, there was a conviction, and the other one was an old party wing, which is represented by HDZ in a slightly modified way here. They don't condemn the phenomenon at all, but they don't defend the other one at all. The other dams so that approximately you say you may be terrible, but these others are a disaster and then instead of defending Covic they're talking about what she was doing, watch out now for the SDP government forgetting that everything they're saying about that government actually had the powers of their current HNS coalition partners. I have something else to say, so colleague Reiner, I had no intention of saying it in the replica, you mentioned the INA. The only one, the only government that has a powerful or powerless INU verdict, is the government of Ivo Sanader. And I'm gonna have to think this through for us to apologize to Evey Sander for being convicted of SDP? Is that what you want? Here, we can do that.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17641	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17642	Thank you very much. I would not waste unnecessary time on some other ministers, some other relations and return the ruling party in the way they return to the SDP because here is the subject of my interest, Mr Tomislav Coric. However, I must tell the truth for the sake of this, Plenković's uncle in Biokovo Nature Park, Plenkovic's Shogor Dubrovnik Airport, Šuicin's brother Airport Dubrovnik, Obulen Koržinek's brother-in-law of HACOM, Plenković's cousin HTZ in Germany, I don't have enough time in reply to the replica, and I don't have enough time for four years to list everything I have to list.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17643	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, Boric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17644	Thank you very much. In 238, however, the lady apparently presented the truth and forgot about her case where she named her sister as one of the parts of the Krka Tourist Board in such a situation. You must say that too, ma'am.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17645	Comrade Boric, this was now more of a replica. but the violation of the Rules of Procedure, so that I may give you, I will give you a warning now. [[You missed the whole football game.]] I'll give you a warning. Here's your friend, Thunderbolt. ... Because you've replicated. [[Intruder: You don't understand.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17646	The Honorable Chairman, I would like to ask for a break to be called in to a little consultation by the ruling majority's representatives. They're supposed to defend Minister Coric here today, they're telling us about SDP's sins. Don't anyone have a good word to say for Minister Coric, if there's no one here, I'll say something. I'm gonna say something good for a man right to me sorry for him.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17647	You're getting a warning from your friend Grumo. You understand that. Please let's get this one back to the debate. Now it's time for fellow Petyr, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17648	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague Ahmetovic spoke about the INI sold in 2003 at a time when the SDP government was in power, when I insisted on modernising the refinery in Sisak, the main opposition was SDP's Marina Lovrić, who, whoever insisted on modernising the refinery in order to preserve jobs, accused of causing damage to Sisak. The SDP has had the opportunity to help with this modernisation in the 2012-2015 term, but this has not happened and unfortunately today the Sisak refinery is in a situation where it cannot perform its basic function, which I hope we are all complaining about here. INA's passed its Calvary, so I'm wondering if you feel any responsibility for the disintegration of the national oil company, its robber, and also the loss of energy independence culled in your party?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17649	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17650	Thank you very much, I must admit that you have set up a new political instruction that the county is in charge of implementing the contract between MOL and INE. I haven't heard that before. However, what I will remind you, the modernisation of the INE should have been realised since 2003, so the 2003 contract was ordered to modernise the refinery, but of course it was not done because of Hernadi-Sanader's agreement and, of course, it wasn't done today because of the malversions and malversions it is making it possible for this government to deliberately hand over an invalid offer for the concession of part of the Rijeka refinery to suspend the MOL's obligation to modernise the Rijeka refinery.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17651	Dear colleague Petyr, breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17652	Thank you, Mr. President. Article 238 was injured because counterpart Ahmetovic is false. Namely, it is not true that the modernisation was not carried out it was carried out from 2007 to 2011, I was the chairman of the Assembly Committee on Environmental Protection, insisted on modernization and then some money was invested and shifts were made, and your mayor Marina Lovrić Merzel characterised it as attacks on Sisak when the money was invested, and when SDP didn't invest that money they weren't attacks on Sisak. [[Intruder: Thank you, fellow Petir.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17653	My colleague Petyr, this is not a violation of the Rules of Procedure, this was a replica, and I have to give you a warning. Let's go to the last line now, Comrade Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17654	Mr Ahmetovic, not only was the minister in this term breaking the law and working against the law, he violated the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defences, where party cards in one person were before that, in one person, in a lady in the National Park of Krk, it was Mrs Slavica, where, against the law, the decision of the Administrative Court in Split was made, a solution that illegally employed Mrs Slavica's person to the harm of the Croatian defender who was, Ms. Zmijanović, who had better references to education than Mrs. Slavica. So he's also done numerous anomalies in the past term. When we talk about waste management, where there is a catastrophic situation, and I am truly sorry that none of the HDZ colleagues and most of his coalition partners have ever said a single nice word about Minister Djoric. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17655	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17656	Thank you very much, so, my colleague Bulj, I have nothing but to give my condolences to Minister Coric, who was left here alone without any desire from his colleagues and colleagues to defend him in all these allegations that we have very well elaborated to kill at least one number that I have listed, to kill at least one thesis that I have stated. However, as the old one says, "the attack is the best defense," so I guess we'll be waiting for them to teach us a little bit about the '45 cases. Maybe, here I am waiting patiently.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17657	You will wait in your place because you no longer have a replica...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17658	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17659	...so maybe later something will come around '45, you shouldn't forget that year either.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17660	That's right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17661	It has a very big impact on our history, unfortunately for some, and fortunately for others. Here you go. Now we will hear from the government's representative, it will be Prime Minister, Honored Andrej Plenkovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17662	Dear President HS, honourable MPs and MPs, I am pleased to be in, at this session HS once again in front of you and to have, I think, the 6th topic since we began to discuss the occasion in early November, which is, in my deep conviction, one of the few situations, it will be remembered by President Bauk, that the prime ministers so often come before the MPs in one month, he certainly calculated it all because he has all the data, so it would be good for you to look a little bit through the perspective of our meetings here in HS. Minister Ćorić is a good man, has my support, I give him that support and trust since you are crying out for some kind of good word about Minister Ćorić, and I am even impressed by MP Ahmetovic that you are not even glad that you have to say this against Ćorić because so much sympathy between you is shining that it is a miracle that you have seen each other often over the years because of the LNG project. Now, before we go to the substance, several important topics, today is Women's Fight Day, International Day, 60. since the murder of Sister Mirabel in the Dominican Republic, so since you just called for applause here, the last such applause that I saw from the left part of the assembly, the respected former Minister Murganic, was when we ratified the Council of Europe Convention on the Protection of Women against Violence and Violence in the Family, then you had a big round of applause, and the public, especially the left-wing public who supports you must know that you as an SDP when you had a convincing majority even with that great coalition had an absolute majority + 76 right after the election, but again you had fewer representatives than HDZ today, you could ratify it, and you didn't have the courage. Therefore, all voters of the left and liberal spectrum must know well that the SDP that had then had an absolute majority since the first day, so at the end of 2011, did not have the courage to ratify a convention that serves to protect a better quality woman than domestic violence and violence. That was the last round of applause you had. You haven't found any excuse. And to make things even better, today you are, for example, these 40 signatures here in the coalition, for example, with the lady. Vidovic Kristo, who has no idea that he is crying out for the Istanbul Convention, but you have confirmed once again with these signatures that there is a so-called "Istambul Convention". The coalition between the SDP and the Homeland Movement, as well as the Most, as well as the Most and who else? ... And the Sovereignist. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] He might as well be a Sovereignist. You weren't even current then.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17663	You're closer to HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17664	You became popular later, but short-term. You stagniate, you stagnate, you need to know you're stagnating so you don't have too much ambition. So it's important that the public knows that. So the public must know that there is a coalition of the same one that brought down Kolinda Grabar Kitarovic, which consists of Mr. Škora, his movement and all those chosen with them, MOST, MOST, very important and SDP. It's all in the eyes of me watching who signed this initiative and of course you who came later, but you're on to it, I mean Mr. Tomashevic. So it's very important that we know when we're talking about these initiatives. Now, what is the point of these initiatives of yours, especially in light of Mr. Grbin's cry for dialogue with the government? So, there are crying people who are now an opposition, all those I've listed, who we invited to the government, not to a club that goes to some other club, that, no, no, I don't mean Mr. Coric, he went when lockdown was already out, it's known who went to lockdown. Do you need to be reminded of you from We can either you or SDP? That's very important. So remind you of the fact that you want a dialogue, and at the same time you only have one goal that if it is possible for voters to forget the election results in which you instead of those Hajdash-Dončić 68 captured only 41 mandates, 41, so that's 27 less than you thought, and we caught almost those 68.66 of yours. And now, a few months after the election, we should forget that after four years. that you were opposed to having all the possible initiatives that were similar to these, investigative committees, interpretations, mistrust, that now you learned lessons again while SDP leader was Mr Bernardić that you are now repeating it the same way. I think it's a great way to stay 12 years. In opposition. This is just as important to know because we will very easily remove these 2 and a half foreigners of your proposal, which has 4 dots, in point 2, you are not even able to get this firm you mention, which Milanović's government gave to this 71 lip and made agreements before 31.12.2013. Call the CEMP than you call it CERP, CERRP, you were not even able to write in two and a half cards as it is called. Then here you are referring to Minister Coric who did not do anything. And what was done by former MOST minister, Mr Dobrovic, who was in power over the ministry, because MOST loves so-called. The vertical? You know when you're with them in the coalition, then you don't ask anything about that resort, they'll take care of everything, it's logic verticalally so-called. modular coalition, give us this, don't ask us for another. He's had a year and a half to change everything the SDP government wanted and didn't do anything. Nothing, no, and what was modular there? Oh, see, now that's brand-new news, the new news is that Arsen was modular. So, your arguments for the CMP processed in the interpretation. Representative Bulj's arguments for the national park, Ćoric replied already in the earlier debate. Your arguments for Janaf funny, funny, I'll just say that, funny that I can't be any funnier. Thank you. I'm waiting for this few replicas. Minister Ćoric has my support, support of his colleagues in the government, we reject all your demands of the SDP coalition, the Homeland Movement, the MOST and our new dear representatives from Wecan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17665	Now Minister Coric will also address. Why did you wipe out the time? Two minutes left, I saw. Do not delete while another speech goes. You have two minutes left, Minister. Please, have I seen a colleague of Vrkljana, Bartulica, Katičića, Glasovac, Ahmetović, have you listed all of this? Okay. So, two minutes now, please put the time of two minutes for the minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17666	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First of all, let me begin by thanking Mr. Grumoja for his kind words. Because he's not here, but I'll take the opportunity to do it when I see him. Thank you very much again. ... Thank you very much. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] So, I will briefly refer to all three motives of the request to launch trust in me in the context of the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. So, compared to the first part of the wind power plant Krš-Padene, I will remind you that the applicants are not in their presentation at no time stated that the decision of 7 month 2017. adopted after consultations, multiple consultations with the State's Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17667	Just a little colleague, please, Minister, just a little bit.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17668	All right.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17669	Why are you throwing, what was your colleague Bulj and colleague Zekanovic? ... No, not just a little, two minutes I told you that, but it's not on the screen, now it's 2:43... [[You can't hear a bogey from a bench.]] So you bring it down to 30, 30, one minute, one minute, yes, here you go. [[You can't hear a bogey from a bench.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17670	So here, if you'll allow it, allow it not to be mentioned at any given moment, and the word is very important moment. So, the government of Mr. Plenkovic and I personally as Minister during the term of office at the Ministry of Environment and Energy have done nothing, never contradicting the interests of the Republic of Croatia. In the later debate, there will be safe times and opportunities to refer to the question of INA, Janaf and all others. As for point No. The second question concerns the proposal relating to the appointment of Mrs. Nele Slavica, Director of the Public Institute of NP Krka, Ministry of Environment and Energy respected the ruling of the Administrative Court in Split of 18 July 2019. giving a clear, clear and broad explanation of why candidate Slavica was elected director. As for the last point, the issues of my impartiality in the election of management president Janaf Kovacevic, so I did not contact Mr Kovacevic during the election or contest itself. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17671	I thank Minister Djoric. We're on our way. There's no replica, is there? Is there? No replicas? Then we'll go with the injuries of the Rules of Procedure, Comrade Tomasevic, please. [[No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ……]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17672	Thank you. So the president of the government hurt his ankle. 232. A Rules of Procedure which says that the speaker can only talk about the subject under the established agenda. Namely, the prime minister spoke a good part of his presentation on an important topic, which is the International Day against Violence against Women and the Istanbul Convention, but although these are very important topics, they have absolutely nothing to do with the vote and the debate on the confidence of the Minister of Economy and Sustainable Development, unless the prime minister may He knows something we don't know, so there's still [[Intruder: Thank you]] Minister Coric has something to do with violence against women, but you said [[Intruder: Thank you]] He's a good man, so I guess he doesn't. [[/Invader: Thank you, beautiful colleague Tomašević.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17673	What do you want?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17674	So you should have warned him to stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17675	I'll warn him not to talk about violence against women. That's what I think...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17676	While this item is on the agenda, it's a lot more ordinarily, and it would be great.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17677	All right, let's waste our time. Comrade Zekanovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17678	The Honorable President of the Assembly, so 232 Art. And in 238, no government official spoke, the prime minister did not speak on the subject, but he proved once again that he was more left-handed than any SDP. So I really have to congratulate you here that you really did a great job again like you did two years ago. You've shamed the SDP, and you're really more left-handed than any SDP. Congratulations on that.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17679	All right, colleague Zekanovic, you understand that you have injured the Rules of Procedure and that you are being warned. Comrade Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17680	Thank you very much. The Prime Minister injured Article 238 because he did not talk about the topic, he spoke more about the Istanbul Convention, about the relations of the Most, the relations of the SDP, about the relations of the SDP, maybe it's yours, maybe your wishes to the prime minister stem from your desire to enter into your first SDP love that didn't come true for you at the address of Zoran Milanovic, that's your problem, but here is the topic of Minister Ćorić and his work. Here, so if you could remind him, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17681	Okay, so the Prime Minister touched on other topics, and in that part, you're right. So, that this one was a little off topic, but when he talks about you getting into this venture together, that's true. So here in a political sense he has the right to say that you've all agreed together and he can call it a coalition, and I don't have the right to replicate it because it's an opinion that's based on the truth. Now we're going to move on to the replicas, so, Injury of my colleague Grumo's Rules of Procedure, please. [[Aggression: No, not a breach of the Rules of Procedure.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17682	I would ask my colleagues not to violate the Rules of Procedure, not to give the Rules of Procedure any harm to the Prime Minister because he has shown by his exposure how contradictory he is to the coalition MOST, the Homeland Movement and the SDP on the non-ideological subject, and he himself admitted that he was on the ideological theme of the Istanbul Convention in a coalition with the SDP that he clapped on him, and these are two HNS parties where he wanted to be Plenkovic and HNS where he wanted to be Ćoric or SDP the same where he wanted to be Ćoric, respectively, and they didn't make it. [[Intruder: Thank you, colleague Grumoja.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17683	Thank you, comrade Grumoja, notice number two. Now let's go with the replicas. Comrade Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17684	Thank you very much. The prime minister would return to the topic, he asked you why Minister Coric did not respect the decision of the Administrative Court on Split, i.e. a solution to the employment of the illegal director Nela Slavica after which he re-scheduled the tender and again violated the solution and of course, and especially the Law on Croatian Defence Where he is, not this, where Mrs Ljiljana Zmijanović, who had better references on education and better criteria, had the status of Croatian defender. Of course, this is a key issue from last term, and we also had a board of veterans when on the board, veterans were belittled, our members of the Committee on Veterans and External Members, the Honorable Minister literally and herself, Mrs Ljiljana Zmjanovic, who was damaged in this case and where she continued to sue again and again. The Ministry of the Environment. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17685	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17686	Thank you very much, President Bulj, for this question, the minister has already answered and he respects court rulings, respects the procedures of the competition and made the choice he thought was the candidate who achieved the best results when everything was watched together. However, as a member of the MOST coalition, the Homeland Movement and the SDP, you say that you have reached an agreement on an issue that is not ideological, here is even your colleague from the second Mr. Grmoya Hall saying that we had an opinion on an issue that is ideological. If it's ideological to fight violence against women and tighten the laws, measures to have more resources and money to punish savages and violents for SDP not having the courage, and what you, Mr. Bully and the others who have been deluding the public for weeks and months Then I'm strong for my ideological attitude... [[Intruder: Thank you.]] And you haven't found the zombie yet, and you won't. [[Speakers speech at the same time do not understand.]] Neither you nor this circle in the hall. [[Intruder: Prime Minister, I ask you to stick to the time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17687	Prime Minister, please stick to your time as well as your MPs. The coalition theme is yes, but time and procedure above all else. Please, Prime Minister, let's stick to the rules that apply in the assembly. Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17688	Thank you very much. The premiums hurt Article 238 first shows nervousness because it does not answer questions that are on the subject, please Mr. Chairman, to warn him, I know that in you the silence of not being in the SDP, you were close, to the advice of Zoran Milanović you did not go, advised you that it was smarter for you to enter HDZ and obviously gave you good advice you became HDZ president as declared SDP. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17689	I didn't realize now what would be a breach of the Rules of Procedure, so then I'm giving you a warning because this was a replica, not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Let's go to my colleague Zekanovic now, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17690	Dear Prime Minister, a specific question, I hope you will answer me, and I hope that along with your Minister Cocoric, who will remain Minister, we know that because you, that is logical, you may be doing something about it. I'll say more in the debate, you might stay here and listen. So, it's 2017, it's the HEP that directly has the Ministry of Minister Ćorić's authority, and that year, HEP buys gas, that you know whether and that year the gas was purchased when it was extremely unfavourable for 15 to 20% of the higher price, which cost about 15 to 20 million euros in the state budget, was purchased specifically from the TPD. So, here's Minister Coric, you know, and what people were involved, you know, I'll do it a little later, and if you and people have to deal with this topic, see what it's all about, there's a suspicion that something's wrong.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17691	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17692	Thank you, beautiful representative Zekanovic, another member of the coalition of sovereigns and SDP on this subject, and otherwise in the way you behave I really don't know what you're talking about, nor is HEP the topic of these three semi-paragraphers who can't even accurately specify the companies that are involved, so I don't know, and since none of you have given a single replica to Minister Coric, I'm really trying now to give confidence to this position by Mrs Ahmetovic that you are not even glad that you started this because you obviously have nothing to ask him, and it is about trusting him. It seems to me that you're actually supporting him and that you're on the trail of Mrs. Dark Taritash's attitude that praised him more than I ever did in my performance and that's just as good, yes, yes, I was very careful to hear what you said, and Mr. Zekanovic, you're just like Bull when you find the zombie.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17693	My colleague Zekanovic, here you are, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17694	The Honorable President of the Assembly just before you gave me a warning even though I gave the same violation of the Rules of Procedure as my colleagues Tomašević and Bulj, I am giving it again in the same way because the Honored Prime Minister is not sticking to the subject, so 238, and, please, you should have warned him. So that's one of the eclectic violations of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17695	Please, Prime Minister, I'm asking you not to throw from the scene, no, please. Please, just a minute, so let me explain the rules of the game. [[I don't know what the Prime Minister is nervous about.]] Government representatives cannot be warned because there is no such thing in the Rules of Procedure, they can be warned, they can be warned, there are no conditions. A colleague of Zekanovic's was somewhere on the border, so there's no warning, okay. Let's move on now, Comrade Bauk, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17696	Thank you. Mr. Prime Minister, your defense of fellow Coric has been reduced to two sentences. He's a good man and he has my support. That's what they'd say to me, too, I'm sure. But I'll read you some more people who were good and had your support. Mr. Pave Barisic was good and had your support, he left 119 days after we applied for a recall. Mrs. Martina Dalic was a good woman and she had your support, she left 31 days after we requested a recall. Mr. Kujundzic is a good man and has your support, 190 days after we have called for a recall. Mr. Goran Marić for 972 days he was the longest man and had your support. Mrs. Murganic, was also a good woman and had your support for 642 days. Gabriela Žalac for 2 days, Tolusic for 53 days and Lovro Kuštević for 5 days. It's all a list of the good people we've been looking for, we've had your support on average for 251 days. We asked for Covic 19 days ago and two, three, two more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17697	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17698	Dear Representative Bauk, but also when you are dealing with numbers, you must immediately count that you will be another minimum, minimum of 300 days in opposition, and as you proceeded through the predecessor of Mr Grbin Bernardic, you could happen to yourself 1000 days in opposition, so you count as much as you want, but in this way to act as a dialogue, so you act as an appeal for dialogue, especially you from the SDP, and you refused a few days after the election, not somewhere in hiding, but in government, you probably asked for a formal letter with a written calligraphy to accept that call, so you refused. And now, with no confidence, with impediments, with investigative committees, you cry out for dialogue as a coalition of MOST, SDP, Homeland Movement and We can. Is that true? At least 300 days. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17699	Thank you. Comrades, colleagues, I would like to ask you, colleagues and colleagues, colleagues and colleagues, I ask you to stop acting this way and continue to work seriously. This is more like a joke and cartoon. Here's my colleague Bulj, the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Please, Prime Minister, please. All of you, please calm down now.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17700	Dear Chairman, you're running the Rules of Procedure because they're acting as if someone's private front here was dismayed by the prime minister who's here is his personal debate club, it's not personal we have a topic, President, back to the topic we signed here by 40 parliamentary deputies, and the prime minister is always trying to remove the topic from focus and prove his superiority trained in Brussels, please return Mr. President, the subject. [[Intruder: colleague Bulj...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17701	...I'll return the subject, please, Prime Minister, please, I beg you. So, fellow Bulj, you will return the subject to your questions, the question of fellow Bauk was not also directly related to the subject but has spread a little bit, so the Prime Minister has also expanded. And now I invite you, now I invite you to calm down and go on the subject, but you're the ones who have the instrument so that you ask a question that's about the subject. Is anyone else reporting for a breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. Then let's move on, colleague Bencic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17702	Thank you. Dear Prime Minister, I would ask you to answer the question of whether Mr. Coric should be called off or not without a crackdown on whether it is important to decide whether he should be called off. Please tell me what was the role of Mr Vujnovac and his PPD of the First Gas Society in the agreement to rent one billion metres of cubic gas in the LNG terminal by Hungary's state-owned company MVM, and whether you or Mr. Coric participated in talks with Mr. Vujnovac or anyone from the PPD about intermediation with the MVM and the gas lease in LNG. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17703	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17704	Thank you, well-respected President of the Assembly, if I may answer because this has nothing to do with the subject, so these three dots and cartoons, CEP or CERRP, as you wrote so on about the Krka National Park and the Janafu cartoons, have absolutely nothing to do with the companies you mentioned. Is that right? Huh, you'll prove it. [[No, it's not.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17705	But I beg you, Prime Minister and MP, I beg you, just a little please. So you can't have a dialogue here this way, there are 60 seconds for the question and 60 seconds for the answer or for the replica and the reply to the replica. Let's not argue like this because we're not going anywhere. Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17706	Okay. 'Cause Mrs. Devereaux is here. Bencic asks absolutely as well as Mr. Zekanovic something that has nothing to do with the subject you signed in 3 points. Point one CMP, point two Krka, point three Janaf. This has nothing to do with your question. I am asking nicely that you ask perhaps later when you have time this afternoon what Minister Coric has to do with some company that has nothing to do with this topic. So it would be very important and important that all of these MPs, like Mr. Bulj, who says the truth about someone being in the SDP, not in HDZ, is that someone is left-handed, not perhaps the right-wing center. No, Mr. Bulj, yes, that Mr. Bulj and Mr. Zekanovic, I personally stand behind what we have ratified and what day is today, and you don't stand and that your voters must know, you don't care about protecting women from violence, that's the point, no ideology, that's the point.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17707	Comrade Dark-Taritash, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17708	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Plenkovic, when you come to parliament, and you come quite often, and we'll make sure you keep coming. The debates are always interesting, but it's just not good when the debates go into some sort of physical, but let's hope it doesn't happen this time. So, I'm sure Minister Coric wouldn't want me to defend him because if you said he was a good man, and I said a lot more good about him, I said he was in the 14th and 15th governments, so this is the 3rd resort he's in, then I'm afraid there'll be someone in that joke "don't defend me anymore". But since we're all having a little discussion, you said we'd at least be in opposition for 300 days. I was taught in the second grade of elementary school that 365 days of age, and that every one of them was 366. I learned that elections are every 4 years. So that those 300 days are [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]] very, very interesting [[Intruder: Thank you]] how you got to them at all. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17709	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17710	Nice, nice, your assembly has formed a respected representative Mrak-Taritash seems to have established for me 23.8th, so ask Mr. Bauka, he knows that you can still have 60 days, right, the deadline for holding elections, take it away from today, and you will come for the 300 days. But you'll be in opposition for another thousand days. That's the point. So, since you're praising Minister Coric and it's true that he was also in the last government, he'll be in this government and giving you a very good job of whatever duty he's in, he'll be doing this job and continuing to do this after this debate now that he's going to last this afternoon after he gets the support of a representative who's necessary, and you 76 to take him down, you don't even miss that gentleman of yours from Nova Gradiška who's also tied to Elektrocentar Friday, and none of you mention him. He, not you, but the SDPs, he misses you. You can't get to 76 at all, not even 75. [[Intruder: Thank you]] It's also interesting that the public knows. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17711	Comrade Tomasevic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17712	First of all, I'm glad that you announced early elections, the possibility of early elections next year, and that you don't even trust your government to last more than 300 days, so from now on 300, that's next year. So... and obviously you can't count on how long you have the government's mandate, I'm afraid you don't know how much damage it's done to the CMP and this solution that Minister Coric made. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] I asked him if there was any written, note between the DORH recommending that he make such a solution that he annulled the predecessor's solution said there was no. I gave it to Pete. There's a letter from the DORH. He said he didn't. I asked him if he knew who was the first person he contacted, whether the DORH Ministry or the DORH Ministry. He said he didn't know and he didn't remember. So my question since we are discussing the trust of Minister Coric, who is at the head of the most important ministry of recovery and exit from this crisis and the withdrawal of EU funds in the next 4-5 years, do you trust him since he has not given any evidence that we believe him?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17713	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17714	Thank you very much. Mr. Tomašević, right, I was talking about one year, but there will be another 3 years. And how many, and a half, and then we'll figure out all those days. That's what I'm pulling, that's where I was wrong, I was thinking about the calendar sequence of these 65 plus those of the formation. But, well, that's less important, you realize you'll be in opposition for another 3.5 years, and maybe four more after that. As for your questions about DORH, so I suggest you pick up the phone as a parliamentary representative, call now Deputy Attorney General, then Mr. Cwitan's attorney-general and ask him if they've met, what they've been talking about, how they've come to the conclusion that the minister who made the decision is making exactly the kind of decision he's made. Certainly not, he certainly didn't bring it by heart, and since his predecessor, Mr. Dobrović, once MOST, now the Homeland Movement, had a year and a half until that moment to undo whatever he wanted by the Milanovic government, and he didn't. Ask him too Ask. ... [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]] You won't. You won't be watching that commission. ... [[Employer: A colleague of Tomašević]] You won't, you won't be 100%. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17715	Comrade Tomaševic and Prime Minister, I beg you, rebel, you are amazing, you object against what the Prime Minister throws at you, and at the same time you do the same thing, so please agree. It's very hard to work like that where you keep throwing yourself at each other. Comrade Frankovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17716	I thank the Honorable President HS. Dear Prime Minister, you said in your statement that Minister Coric is a good man, and besides being a good man, he is also a good minister. I must speak again as mayor of the city of Dubrovnik and say the following, the dropout Grabovica was rescheduled thanks to Minister Ćorić 10 million kuna, the energy reconstruction of schools, three schools, two kindergartens in Dubrovnik worth 14 million kuna again thanks to Minister Ćorić, until then there was no more. Agglomeration of 860 million kuna by Dubrovnik again thanks to Minister Ćorić. You know what we got thanks to the SDP, Mr. President? The cancellation of the Dubrovnik customs station, that didn't work out either, and the SDP did it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17717	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17718	Thank you very much, Representative Frankovic, of course he is a good man and a good minister, and I am pleased that you have listed some of the activities in his portfolio and related to the city of Dubrovnik-Neretva County. A series of activities that are responsible for both the economy and the environment, sustainable development, climate change, practical implementation of what is a green plan at EU level in Croatia in the years ahead, and this job will continue to be quality to the benefit of Croatian citizens, as it has done so far independent of these broad coalition efforts, which all have 74.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17719	Thank you very much. Comrade Vidovic Kristo, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17720	Interpelling about the veteran Krš-Padene has proven a joint corruption thieving enterprise and let it enter the HDZ, SDP and HNS minutes. Croatian taxpayers are thus damaged and will be damaged by 2 billion kunas, you have admitted with your Minister Ćorić that it is a criminal contract, but you did not break it, you continue to consume it. As for the coalition, what the entire Croatian public knows, you are in a coalition with corruption, and I, I am in a coalition with the rule of law.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17721	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17722	Dear Mrs. Vidovic Kristo, the last time I listened to the interpretation debate, you spoke about the coalition of Plenkovic's HDZ and Stanimirovic's SDSS. You spoke not of the European but of the Yugoslav law and spoke of the celebration in Serbia and the funds we gave. So that's your frame. A framework for hate speech. So, your manipulation, your desire to tell the Croatian public, see some contract with the investor can be broken up like this, and the investor will say bravo, we were waiting for Mrs Vidovic Kristo, and it is precisely why they would not have started some dispute against the state, they would not have gone before.../incomprehensible/... as Mr Frankovic said what investors to whom SDP had promised something.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17723	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17724	That's your point, that's what you need to know, that's good to know.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17725	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Vidovic Kristo.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17726	Article 238, this is a disdain for me as a representative, it is clear here to the entire Croatian public that this contract is illegal, thieving and proven by the Croatian Government that it should not be concluded because it is illegal. No lawsuit can succeed against such a contract, and Mr. Owner is, as we know, on the run from the Croatian judiciary.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17727	So, colleagues Vidovic Kristo did not insult you, I listened carefully, no, no, he did not insult you, you used this as a replica, not as a violation of the Rules of Procedure and you get a warning. Now it's my fellow Highdukovic's turn, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17728	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Plenkovic, we've heard a lot from you today and if the only crime of the SDP is that we haven't ratified the Istanbul Convention, then so be it. But what's the crime scene of HSZ? What's the crime party you're running? My SDP party has no conviction, no power of attorney, no power over corruption. How many good people have left the government that you've run and how many more will go on suspicion of corruption? I can only say that you made a very nice trade at Eva Sanader's. And I can tell you what Croatian citizens say, which is that the wolf changes the hair, but the temper doesn't. So the HDZ changes the presidents, but its modus operandi, its coalition with corruption doesn't give for anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17729	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17730	Dear Representative Hajdukovic, and of all of you to get hold of the Istanbul Convention, well, okay, I didn't say it was a crime, I said it was a political cowardice coalition whose head was the SDP from the first day of your term where you were four years old and you didn't have the courage to ratify the Convention, but you waited for me who must have baked that trade from Sanader and as a wolf that I haven't changed, brought the text along with my government convinced that I was doing well against the violent and then I welcomed your applause. It's not a crime, Mr. Hajdukovic. It's cowardice. And you have to ask yourself how is it that you sign a text that's exactly on the hands of some resume along with Mrs. Kristo, who now as your coalition partner has accused you of being thieves and being corrupt because of the CERP? That's what you're wondering.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17731	Thank you, thank you. Here you go, fellow Zurovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17732	Dear Prime Minister, since you have confidence in your minister, and unfortunately we have a mildly broken confidence in the same, I'm just going to ask you a few questions. First of all, do you know how many times your minister has trusted in a famous club in Slovenia before, during and after lockdown, whether he has anything to do with Josip Rimac and with this arrest so that it will not be cut off, i.e. To cut it off before the affair gets stronger, that's a few of these questions for you. And secondly, since you're a smart man who's visited a lot of Europe, a lot of countries, like Austria, Denmark, Sweden, Germany, do you know how their ministers solve the waste problem more precisely with thermal processing, and how your minister's trust solves it? Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17733	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17734	Dear Representative Zurovec, as regards the visit of Minister Ćorić to the famous club, I think he as well as the whole of the government has answered Mrs. Bencic's questionnaire, which is probably between Gong and DORH. It's some style, Mrs. Bencic's style. You don't know exactly how representation issues are asked whether it's a construction or perhaps a movie. So that's about this question. But what seems to me is that he was there less than the President of the Republic. It is also quite interesting that those whom Mrs Vidovic Kristo accuses as her coalition partners in the context of this 1, 2, 3 points accused them of being thieves and being corrupt. So on the same paper, the righteous lady, and these thieves and corrupts who are her coalition partners.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17735	Thank you very much. Injury of my colleague Zurovec's Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17736	Honored Prime Minister Article 238 I don't think there's really any need for you to address your colleague Bencic with such words. And I'd rather you answer this other part of the question instead of avoiding some issues so wide, and we both know why you don't want to answer it, so... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17737	You don't sound very good. You speak silently with the mask. I can't hear you. That's why I answered.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17738	A fellow Zurovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17739	More important is content than form, my friend.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17740	A fellow Zurovec your intervention had some basics. I don't think there were any injuries to the Rules of Procedure, but you certainly didn't deserve a warning. Comrade Petyr, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17741	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Prime Minister, we're two weeks ago. So, two weeks ago, we were here discussing the interpretation of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and it was also about the Wind Power Plant project, and it was found during the debate that this project goes deep into the rule of the SDP and that the key decisions on the project were made in which some and then concluded contracts. [[A little bit of you, let's go louder. I've really heard the weaker of my colleague Zurovec, and now so have you. Try talking a little harder.]] In fact, it ended in 2013 when it was in power of the SDP and Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic. I'm interested in your knowledge whether it was true that it was convenient for the investor at the time and that the contracts that were concluded were harmful. And if that's the case, will someone answer for it?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17742	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17743	Thank you very much for your esteemed representative, Petyr. It seems to me that we are here at least when it comes to this CEMP or CERRP that I quote the second page of this war, we gave the answers at the time of the Interpellation debate. But there's twice, so these creative colleagues from the SDP and their other coalition partners want to discuss something that the Parliament has already given its position on, and it's good that the public knows. This is the second time about the same, and my colleague Grbin knows that usually twice about the same shouldn't, especially when the Assembly was manifesting itself. But what was then at the time of the SDP government, the government of Zoran Milanovic is better aware of those colleagues who are presently there. Here's Minister Bauk was then, today's representative, then minister. Maybe he knows something, so let him work it out and let him say it well when the tariff was changing, when the agreements were signed.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17744	A colleague of the Voice. No, I'm sorry. She gave up. A colleague of Ahmetovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17745	Thank you very much. Dear Prime Minister, I've given you a line, not Minister Coric, because he didn't say anything. And at least you asked for LNGs. You don't want to talk about the defence of Minister Coric because you have nothing to say and I understand it. You want to talk about the coalition. We can talk about the HDZ-HNS coalition that was in 2017 when you tricked the voters. That's how you cheat on them even now that you're trying to avoid some sort of verbal acrobatics, and one answer to the opposition, and I'm going to ask you anyway, since you asked me to open the topic of LNG. So you spoke of her, so I rephrase to you, ask you a question. Why did the price of the Omisalj gas pipeline - Evil rise three times? Is it true that on the 2nd and repeat competition the construction work received the consortium Monter Elektrocentar Friday? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17746	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17747	Thank you very much, President Ahmetovic. I will repeat once again that it seems to me that you are not happy to do this towards Minister Coric. That's what you said yourself. I think you like him. You had a dialogue. You've had a debate about LNG for a long time. And for another time, I will point out to the public that LNGs are not the subject of a 2 and a half-page of points 1 CEMP or the wrong CERF. Point 2 Krka National Park and Point 3. Janaf. So LNG is not the subject of this. What is the subject of this debate? Is your desire to put the government, HDZ in some context of questioning after you've been convincingly defeated in the elections and you've still given us a round of applause for winning now a few months after that. Minister Ćorić can answer you later anything you want to know about LNG. I am pleased that Croatia has strengthened its energy position, its energy security, thanks to this project, one of the 5 most funded EU funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17748	Thank you very much. Here you go, pal. ... Injury of the Rules of Procedure? [[A bencher doesn't understand.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17749	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, Rules of Procedure 238 was injured on several occasions or multiple occasions. So all this time, the Prime Minister has been really insulting all of us to answer questions. I've asked a very direct question, very direct, very precise. It's enough to answer yes or no, I know or don't know. But we're constantly witnessing it. Please, I would really kindly ask the President of the Croatian Parliament to try to reason with the Prime Minister and try to point him on the subject. The prime minister here yells, the prime minister yells, and it's a day of fighting violence. Well, verbal violence is violence, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17750	Comrade Ahmetovic, just a minute. ... Wait a minute. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] They're getting it from your side, too. They're getting on the other side, too. ... What are you asking me to do? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I don't understand you. The Prime Minister says he thinks he should answer. ... So it doesn't say in the Rules of Procedure how he should answer your question. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] No offense, no, no. Much harder words have been addressed by representatives to the government, according to the Prime Minister and especially Minister Coric, than you have received answers back. So please be objective. There are a lot of tough words here, but it's parliament, it's parliamentaryism, and I'm trying to balance what comes out of the box to warn and warn. There was nothing here right now that would be a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Let's move on, colleague Katicic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17751	The Honorable President of the Assembly, the Honorable Prime Minister, Minister. Here I agree with your assessment, and neither can I find any serious and justified warrants for this proposal, and I don't think the government could do it either. It is a fascinating ease to blame both HDZ and the majority of the elected Government of the Republic of Croatia in some way, without any concrete evidence being presented, but no indication of such proposals is given. The current work of the minister, as well as the entire government, is conscientious, responsible and legal, and for the allegations from this impeachment best speak for themselves unseriously and populistly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17752	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17753	Thank you, well-respected representative Katičić, I agree with your grades, we have carefully read this request for a vote of no confidence to Minister Ćorić we have tried to understand what is new here on the subject one in relation to the already-absorbed debate on the same interpretation we have found nothing new but confirmation of the coalition between the Homeland Movement, MOST and the SDP, although the MPs of the Homeland Movement accuse this same SDP in the same debate on the text that they have jointly co-signed that they are corrupt and thieves, which is quite interesting news in the tradition of Croatian Parliamentism. I still have to admit I haven't heard about people who sign the same pamphlet that's called an initiative to vote for mistrust, but since there are only 74, I can't get to 76 at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17754	Comrade Vrkljan, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17755	Your Honor, Mr. Prime Minister, I will not ask you about Minister Coric because he is not here. And since the other MPs didn't get the answer, I don't expect it either, but I would ask you a personal question. You've come to the Parliament here. You've been very proud of the president of the assembly, you're walking that left, you're right, you're carrying that bottle with you, you're laughing inappropriately, you're waving your hands like never in your life and what's interesting to wink at the council representatives, so I thought you had a fan, but I see you were winking at 10 places. I'm asking you, were you at some party when you were in such a good mood? And secondly, this is what the citizens of the Republic of Croatia are looking at, 220,000 were completed a few days ago, and that would require you to be much more serious and focused on those problems that the Republic of Croatia has. ... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17756	Here, here's your answer. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17757	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Vrkljan, I really don't know who and why and from which part of the assembly you're clapping. So, you're another one of these MPs who are part of this coalition with the SDP, and you're playing that big right hand or whatever it is, and you're confirming in practice that you're not and Tooo in a way that you're telling us about the blocked and executed, in the time of our term, our government passed three laws. Yesterday you discussed the Executive Act, amendments to the Executive Act, which will facilitate the position of debtors, simplify and cheapen the procedure. So, from the write-offs to the reduction of the total debt, and the reduction of the number blocked before the moratorium occurred. So you're going into a field that you obviously don't know anything about, so the same public needs to know, and you're asking something that has nothing to do with Mrs. Vidovic Kristo and SDP are gone.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17758	Comrade Bartulica, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17759	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm sorry that this debate is sort of taking place in the direction of arguing which party in the last 20 years. of these major parties, it has done greater damage to Croatia. The reason I see it is that this model of clientelistic governance is still in effect. This is not strange considering, for example, that the state budget has over 28,000 items, so the temptation and temptation to abuse public money is too great. Unfortunately, we have countless affairs that confirm it. However, I see one incompetence in your policy, on the one hand you're saying that you need to help the completed and blocked, and at the same time we know that this guaranteed price that these contracts provide actually increases electricity prices and people can't pay them [[Intruder: Thank you]] Many, many executions concern the common [[Intruder: Thank you fellow Bartulica]] these bills. [[Intruder: Time, thank you]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17760	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17761	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Bartulica, I was watching and signed this, as far as I can tell you didn't sign it, I guess you have delegated your position to your colleague Vidović Kristo to make her along with the SDP nicely at a meeting, so that the entire Croatian public knows. And as for the price debate, I am sure that you who do not come from Belarus do not come from the Nedra Lukashenko, but come from the countries of Western democracy know that when a contract is signed with the investor, then when it is unilaterally trying to change the principle ends in litigation that rarely loses the one who changes the rules, ends with international arbitration and ultimately fails to do so. That's why this populist demagogue on Mrs. Demagoggy's trail. Vidovic Kristo for your own good, and I've known you for a while I suggest you forget. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17762	Thank you very much. Comrade Grmo, here you go. You're the last one.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17763	Thank you. I, in your style, will honor the Prime Minister, so the unfathomed HNS or SDP coalition partner Ivan Vrdoljak, Milan Bandic, Željko Keruma, you threw here today a hook around the Istanbul Convention, said that all those who oppose violence, I expected an independent representative's reaction, Marija Petir, but she took the head off none of the reactions. I'm going to ask you one question, my view of violence is clear, yours is not very anxious you ran here to me during a debate so that you obviously have some problems with these nervous reactions that have a certain tendency towards violence. I'm only interested in one thing, you said to Minister Bozinovic that his responsibilities are gone for the next four years, is Minister Coric responsible for the next 4 years?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17764	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17765	Thank you very much, Mr. Grumoja, so you who probably count yourselves in a group of some large or larger Christians than we have been, you have shown your views along with the others who opposed the Convention on the Protection of Women from Violence and the Prevention of Family Violence that you don't really care about it. You do not care that the Croatian state defends those who are weaker, defends women from abuse, prevents domestic violence, but you have performed circuses and miracles since then 2.5 years, and today we see a better legislative framework, more criminal charges, less criminal charges, excellent interdepartmental cooperation, and we do not see yours, nor Mr. Zekanovic, nor Mr. Bulj and similar of your new representatives the fears of so-called. zombies. So your policy on this topic is not ideological but life is about zombies. That's what you do. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17766	Thank you very much. We've come to an end with the replicas, and you'll get three reminders, so that's taking your word for it. Comrade Grumo, here you go, Injury of the Rules of Procedure, here you go. [[Intruder: Will you warn the Prime Minister to answer my question?]] Look, please don't, any questions have been asked to the Prime Minister who wasn't directly connected, he also responded sometimes directly, sometimes not, so let's not be ridiculous to ask me for something that you don't do yourself. [[I'm not gonna hurt you, warn you, warn you.]] So now we've been sorting out for almost two hours, so I'd suggest we take a 10 minute break to get some air and then the clubs go after that. It's 4:00, 35 o'clock.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17767	[[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 16:45 A.M.]] And at 16.45, Mr. Bulj, and then Mr. Miletić will take it out, so we'll start discussing the clubs. But before that, without dialogue, I think I have to ask if anyone on behalf of the board wants to speak? No, I don't. Okay. Then I open the debate and Mr. Bulj, and then Mr. Miletic will present the position of the Independent Lists Bridge Club. Here you go, Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17768	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Bridge Club, I can only say that I am sorry that the prime minister left after all the boasting and shows that element as a small mouse that he has now retired because he simply took this pay phone with his errand boy Gordan Jandrokovic and so now he does not want to hear the arguments. I'm a proud minister, Prime Minister, if you're watching. I'd like you to come by for signing these points on Minister Coric, who is the Minister of Environmental Threatening. You gave him the economy, the water and the fire so he would destroy along the road and the economy, and he literally destroyed the energy that people pay for wind power plants that would pay 2 billion kuna. Otherwise, renewable energy is an empire for certain investors to gain through corruption, a way of setting up their jobs and Krš Padjane is proof of this corrupt octopus. By the way, the most important thing for me at Minister Coric was in the past term, and that's what the prime minister defends means is where he is injured just because we have the court ruling of the Administrative Court in Split for Mrs Zmijanovic where she is damaged. You appointed the person of Minister Ćorić who has the HDZ and HNS card, and Mrs. Zmijanovic had the status of defender and had better conditions without it. Evey, you are without a problem, regardless of the judgment of the Administrative Court in Split, regardless of what you asked for the dispensation of the judges, and after the court's decision was reached, you repeated the competition and again you did the same thing and now the whole case is in court again. The Defense Act has been violated. Let the Croatian defenders listen well. People who listen to this now, you've violated the Law on Croatian Defence. I asked the board to take care of the Board of Defense, then it was for veterans where you were literally acting as arrogantly as usual just before the Prime Minister who here is clearly the protector of everything. I would now only briefly send a message to the people, because there is no Prime Minister, and Minister Ćoric has no will to defend him, nor has the prime minister defended him with one single sentence from these four points, and the minister, and Prime Minister Plenkovic, who is in coalition with Bandic, whose party is run by Kalmeta, whose party is led by Dujic, where his main forces are still his main forces, Ivo Sanader of the President of the Parliament, who was his right-hand man and has always peeked behind the back of Ivo Sanader, Jandrokovic, Bacic, who was the chief treasurer at the time. All the people here who were in charge of the party at the time. One more time. Minister Coric, I am proud, my colleagues and colleagues I signed this document, a document of truth. First, no one knows what was going on in JANAF, and the results are clear. A memorandum was signed to shut down the Sisak refinery. It was an influence on JANAF. The tour of Club 9 where corruption was being conducted, where money was being spent on a money counter. The minister has so far not said where competition was being destroyed, the competition that would survive in the Republic of Croatia. Unfortunately, many companies have failed. The club in Slovenia is evidenced by respected ministers that they were working there and counting money in bags. As far as general waste management is concerned, that's where you failed absolutely. You're the ministers who shut down the waste dump. Banned along with the inspectorate in Vrgorec to send to Sinj 120km of waste from Vrgorec to Sinj. You're not gonna do that. And now to put pressure on Sinj now you want... and where he will be with the waste, and the center for waste management Lečevica is pure crime. 30 million kuna still in that harmful project stands... Ministers of environmental threat, you've done more damage to energy and the environment than anyone who's gone through us before you. That's why I'm proud to sign this. Prime Minister Plenkovic is now having coffee with Jandrokovic and boast that you have made fine speeches while the people suffer, suffer and pay more expensively. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17769	Okay. As promised, I did not interrupt you, and now I will not interrupt Mr. Miletic, who will certainly be much lighter and stronger with arguments and gentler in tone. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17770	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament Furio Radin and Honored Minister Ćorić. In Croatia, every 15 minutes, a woman is abused and there is nothing worse in this world than when a man raises his hand to a woman. He thus betrayed his masculinity. He betrayed all the ideals of a man. And we as a state must do everything to stop violence against women, the responsible punishments of every kind of violence, even that verbal, she perfiduous. Thank God, I belong to a party where I don't have to be excluded from violence as mayor of HDZ's Tomasevic. I don't know if you turned the Scar off. Thank God, I belong to a party whose greatest crime in its existence is what, a public notary and a good occasional whisper... Please tell the Prime Minister, we are certainly not yelling for any coalitions or for any national unity. You've won the legitimacy of the Croatian people. Take this country. Let it lead, then we will all see what Croatian citizens decide in the local elections. Minister Coric will describe you in two words. Ignoring the problem. After meeting with representatives of the Association of the Crisis Eco-station Mariščina, which you held on 28 March 2019 in March 2019 in Marčela, you said the following in front of the Viskovo municipality building, I quote you: "If the value of the sulfur is not calmed or reduced within 60 days, I will propose temporary closure of the Waste Management Centre." Video exists. I'll send it to you later for an e-mail to see you. After that, absolute silence follows. Ignoring this problem regardless of who the question points to, whether it's citizens, members of this house, or someone else, or a third or a lawyer. It seems to me that you have a goal and it turns out that the victims of citizens destroying nature don't matter to you at all. That in the center of Mariscina there is still something more dangerous than the smell of the minister proves the document of the Institute of Public Health. Well, I didn't measure it. We didn't get together on the street. And that's where someone brought the exact data and said there were poisons in the air. Locals around Kastion, Mariscina have been complaining to you for months about the unbearable smell from the county centers. Why are you ignoring the concerned locals? The locals are now complaining to the attorney general trying to reach you through it. I've got all the memos in front of me. You didn't answer them. Are you buying time? While you are on the move to build a new nine, nine such centres based on dysfunctional MBO technology, the Ombudsman recommended in a report to this honorable home ban the use of IBO technology in all waste management centres and an impact assessment on health, and this is ignored. In Most, we suggest that the emphasis on waste management be on separate collection of biodegradable municipal waste and its processing in biogas plants or composts. This would save the Ministers millions of kuna taxpayers' money, preserve nature, preserve useful waste raw materials, speedily meet European waste separation standards and prevent citizens from being poisoned. But in that case, the respected minister, Coric, has no interest groups, no secret meetings, no fingers in the jam. On November 3rd, I asked you a representative question about the attempt, MPs please listen to this, an interested group related to Italy to build a combustion plant in Croatia's green lungs in Presid, to make the oxymoron even bigger Italian trash. It's like we don't have enough of our own, so they're planning on importing garbage from Italy and burning it to the Presidu? 300 people went out on the street and said but the passport won't work. And it seems to me that the inhabitants of Sušačka Draga, Gornja and Donja Vežice, Rijeka, Trsata, Svilno, will also go out on the street because we will not allow any construction of a burner in the water protection area of Sušačka Draga. And this is what I refer to the City of Rijeka and the Primorje-Gorski County, we will not allow us citizens of Rijeka. Minister Coric whose interests do you represent? Croatian citizens, I'm afraid not. Why are you opening five new ecological hotspots until you've faced problems from the existing two centers? The Prime Minister please ask, I wanted to ask him here, he's gone. Are you really putting your hand in the fire for your Minister? Time will tell. [[Intruder Radin: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17771	Time. Thank you. Mrs. Sandra Bencic asked for five minutes on behalf of the motionary. On behalf of the Proposer as a Proposer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17772	It would be nice to adopt that. Thank you, Mr. Vice President. When I asked the prime minister today what the role of the first gas company and its alleged owner Vujnovac in negotiations with the company MVM, who doesn't know what company MVM is, it's the company that rented 1 billion cubic gas meters per year for the next 7 years in LNG and thus actually saved a completely unwarranted LNG project. So what was the question is, what was the role of the PPD in negotiations with the Hungarian firm MVM? And the question was whether Mr Plenkovic or Mr Coric participated in these negotiations with Mr Vujnovec and did they know what his role was in it? The prime minister did not respond because he said what this has to do with one of the Ina-Mola points. I'm glad he's back now because here's what we're talking about is what the PPDs and LNGs have to do with the Ina-MOL situation. It is precisely a crucial question of Mr. Coric's crime and you, Mr. Plenkovic, whether the events in Ina-Mol as well as Janaf's melt of the reverse pipeline from Sisko to Rijeka that would allow the processing of oil in Croatia? Are they part of a broader agreement between Croatia's common energy policy and Viktor Orbanov's Hungary? Actually, I was wondering, and that's what I've been saying here. So why on earth did we give the Hungarians high-quality oil this year at a lower price than its market price? Why didn't we include their transport costs? And why did we lose between 300 and 350 million kuna at that job? 300 and 350 million kuna is people's annual free diet price for all students in the Republic of Croatia that we asked for yesterday when we talked about the budget. That's not what it's for. Furthermore, why, I wondered why and what logic does not invest in its own oil processing capacity and leave it to the Hungarians when it is known that they sew us along and across the MOL and we complain about them all the time. Why did we give their daughter's field of exploitation of Sava 6 size 2,600 km2 for 30 years, if we know that MOL is not a friend in our energy policy and then the key thing opens up. Excuse me, I'm speaking to you. Can you stop the time, please? [[/Intruder: Mrs. Bencic, go ahead, go ahead.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17773	And stop the time no, but the chronometer yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17774	So the key question is whether in the sudden lease of one billion m3 of gas by the Hungarian company MVM in LNG, which is of course not worth it because they have access to cheaper Russian gas, however, they have an interest in showing that they have a share of gas from non-Russian sources due to the EU. This literally saved LNG because it was on barely a little more than 10% of the purchased capacity and could not be justified until the MVM came. And then what happens? Five Project, Five Project would be without the intervention of Viktor Orban and his MVM firm because it was a state-owned Hungarian firm that failed and proved to be financially unsuccessful. But where does the PPD get into the game? The PPD had leased exactly that much, 1 billion cc's of annual gas at Gazprom. They'll leave it to the Hungarians, so they'll fold, and the PPD will take LNG gas. So, the Hungarians will never take the LNG gas they'll take it from the PPD because they've made a smip. The PPD will take LNG gas but will, of course, make a difference in price. What the question and what Hungarian journalists had in their research report a few weeks ago showed was that it was much easier for Viktor Orban and Andrej Plenkovic and Mr Ćorić to get the money out through a private company PPD than through the MVM which is a state firm either through HEP or through the INU that are co-owners of LNG. And let me know now, is that also crucial to what we ask you, is this about the tied-up trade, is our discounts to Orban MOL, Orban's MVM part of the agreement that Hungarians save LNG and rent one billion cubic metres of gas annually for the next seven years, although it's not worth it and what else do we owe them for that intervention? And do we owe them what we owe them? Yeah, you think that's funny. I know it's funny to you. I don't think it's funny that we lost 300 million kunas at the oil business, that we lost 1.2 billion kunas at the CMP, that we continue to lose because we destroyed all of the oil processing infrastructure in Croatia and that we enter into agreements with Orban's Hungary on a common energy policy where you constantly owe them something and then you still have your back in the European Council. Please give me an answer to these questions as well as an answer to the question I asked the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17775	Stay, stay, stay has a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17776	Thank you very much, Vice President. Article 238, Mrs. Bencic was completely off topic. So what they're writing in the recall request has nothing to do with what she's been saying here, so this is an extension of this recall story to a whole new topic because on these topics they wrote down, they experienced a fiasco. And if you allow it as chairman, then we'll have a problem all day and night. So, I ask you to give her a warning, because she was completely off topic, she never mentioned in a single word what it says in this statement according to their wish for the impeachment of Minister Coric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17777	If he did it every time, that's all he'd do. I won't give a warning to anyone, not to you, not to Mrs. Bencic, Mrs. Bencic, you don't have a replica, and you have one replica, Mato Frankovic. Here you go, Mr. Mato Frankovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17778	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear Mrs. Bencic, five minutes you've been talking about something you didn't sign, five minutes, maybe what you've been saying is very interesting and certain that the citizens of the Republic are interested, but you're talking about five minutes of something that isn't the subject of today's debate, that's the first. Another thing you mention about PPD, how important or irrelevant it is not our thing here, but it is very interesting that PPD had on the list for the assembly through the Homeland Movement some of its members, and you signed this document with them. Now tell us how, how, how, how, how, how, how, how, how, how, how, how, how, how, how?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17779	I'll be happy to explain how.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17780	But Mrs. Bencic, only when I give you my word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17781	Excuse me. How come? How come? So, sir, of course, it's in their interest to sponsor you and give you donations, to make Mr. Vujnovac one of the most important donors, and that he has, too, am I talking about you or your stranger? So secondly, it has its own teams as a large, large interest group and elsewhere. If we didn't get into those Russian gas stories now because we could stay for a long time, tell me which way, how he talks about INA and the story of JANAF and what I explained to you what was missed by how much we sold INA oil, it has nothing to do with what we wrote in the recall application. What's the difference between leaving Mr. Coric and making friends with Mr. Kovacevic and the role of JANAF in that story, you don't understand. We're going to prove to you today exactly how it relates, and then we're going to stop proving it in the assembly and go through the institutions. Because we know that our intervention will not get Mr. Coric's resignation. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17782	Thank you very much, thank you very much, ma'am, Mrs. Bencic, but I'll give you my word now, but when she complains that you're going off topic, you can't complain to others about going off topic. What does that have to do with the subject, I'm sorry. [[I didn't say they were going off topic.]] I'll give you my word, but whatever you want.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17783	Thank you, dear Vice President. Mrs. Bencic hurt 238, directly accusing me of secretly receiving money from the PPD. [[Article, article, article.]] It is clear here that the Croatian public could hear what is absolutely false, I have never received any money from anyone in my life, and especially not from the PPD and I would ask Mrs Bencic to apologize for it. [[I didn't say that.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17784	And it seems to me that right after she said she wasn't thinking about you, she seems to me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17785	Your client.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17786	No, no, I didn't give you my word. No, I didn't give you my word, I'm sorry. I'm sorry, your five minutes are over, and we're done with the replicas. Thank you very much, Mrs. Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17787	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17788	This Mr. Hrvoje Zekanovic will speak, I don't, I'm trying to hold as much tolerance. Mr. Hrvoje Zekanovic will speak on behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17789	Clubs, clubs.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17790	What did I say?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17791	You're committees, but it doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17792	No, I didn't tell the board, I told the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17793	No, it's all 5, all 5.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17794	We're both a little deaf, aren't we?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17795	We're already tired, it's too late.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17796	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17797	Dear Vice-President, honourable ministers, colleagues and colleagues, I did not personally sign this request but if it had come under my hand, I would have signed it because the opposition sign it, it is clear and I have nothing here ad-hominem and counter you but it is logical that when you are in opposition, you are against both the Prime Minister and all the ministers, and so, without exception, there is no exception. And tomorrow, when anyone, someone, for example. from MOST or any other party or here we are sovereigns may be against you again or against someone doing so and we will do so. As for those ridiculous attempts to relativize what was done by the Prime Minister, it's funny because I think even there's a fellow Grumoja who responded well. We have an ideological coalition on the one hand, Andrej Plenkovic and HDZ with the SDP on all key issues of the Istanbul Convention, the Marrakek Agreement, and here is something that is not world-famous and, so I have voted for some of your laws, so I am in favour of the government and I will vote again if I see that something is good and it is not bad. And I'll say this even when you became a minister I was one of the first in your office and you did one thing you should have done after mine, after my application, one thing that's concrete and fine. And now I'm going to try you here, given that you're going to be the Minister of State to instruct you to do something that needs to be done. Here, take this as one real, one request perhaps, here's what Croatian citizens would like to do. I mentioned it in the replica, and now I'm going to try to say it a little easier with more facts. 2017, but it's not just 2017 because HEP buys gas, you know, HEP buys it for households and buys it for gas plants. By bringing this to HEP's households nothing but HEP's actually poor, HEP's losing a lot of money, and here's what's left of it. In 2017, because the gas was purchased later than was to be bought, and it was known that the price of growth would be lost by around EUR 20 million because the price of gas increased 20% in that period. That curve knows exactly how it goes. Dear Minister, can you from your position deal with this topic? That's what I'm curious about, and will you? Here I'd like you to deal with a little bit, that a little bit, you know, that you have people you're close to and private with and you can ask them. Here, ask them about this case, see what this is about, and I'd like you next time you're here to tell me something about this. Here, please, that's what I want to hear. I'm not even going to charge you with this, but I want to hear from you, so in a month when you're back here to answer this question, and you know who you can ask. I won't say a single name. Another thing about wind power plants, the fact is and it is well said here that the EU is driving us, someone will say, I think my colleague Grbin even said for a reason that we have expensive but environmentally justified wind energy, the energy of the sun to use it. However, we could subsidize for this kilowatt that we subsidize to some entrepreneurs who make millions, objectively millions earn, subsidize such kilowatts with Croatian, every Croatian household. To some Croatian family who is modest in income that with a few tens or a few thousand kunas can place solars on their house and even live on it. Here's my specific advice. When the next such envelope is placed and worked, release the wind power plants because they really do cause landscape damage and environmental damage and if you already have to subsidize with 78 lip kW, subsidize the household, household to any in coastal Croatia because it makes sense that everyone can put on the house solar and make money, not just have free energy. Here's what you've heard from me for the second time since I've said this before when it was impelation, here I am telling you again. Here, put it on paper. You can really do that. I'll give you specific advice. I'll bring you together with people who can do it. Let's see if there's anything. As for nature protection resistors, I know you're not from that resistor, but here I am going to direct you to some things that are extremely easy to solve, so next time I'm going to ask you if you've done it. Not a single protected area in Croatia, and we have 100, I'm not just talking about national parks and nature parks, but I'm talking about these lower categories of protection from significant landscapes, nature parks, monuments, parks of architecture, etc., that I'm not counting everything now, there's no professional background. So there's no expert background, there is, but from '75, '72 and '70. You've been here for, like, three years. If I were a minister, I would order it by decree of the Nature Protection Authority you have within a half-year production of professional bases. We're protecting something we don't know why we're protecting. And then, of course, wind parks and everything else can happen anywhere. Here's a decree to order, it has to be done, it's a disaster. I worked in that sector, it had nothing to do with anything. I'll get some more on HEP. HEP is directly under your jurisdiction, so I'll tell you something that, of course, the people of HEP recommend HEP, wrote, there are a lot of problems there, so if you don't write everything down, you don't memorize, you can always return this video. From 2018 As HEP's new management came, hep's profits were halved, so HEP's profits were halved. If I was the manager and if I had a double profit, I'd ask the management of my people what's going on. Investments are realised in an extremely small percentage, less than 50%. HEP has entered the capitalisation of Petrochemy. How will HEP as a company, a state-owned firm, have a return invested? When HEP will get its investment back in LNG because HEP of LNG has no use for it, means in other words the Croatian state... Is it, is it all connected? [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Why is a continuous process of restructuring of companies and subsidiaries not being implemented, the process stopped after the first phase? Why, here's the thing about fellow Frankovic, he's not here right now, but it doesn't matter, he'll hear, why does the Dubrovnik hydropower plant not drive after the people who were killed and re-enter the work, not work full capacity, and it's designed for that, if you can explain the money loss? By reducing the HEP network, HEP's 300 million-dollar distribution system operator, which also reduced HEP's profits, why did this happen? Why aren't continued claims of debt being made by Elektroprivreda in neighbouring countries, Serbia and BiH? So we forgive Serbia and BiH for their debts. ... What? [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] There's no... It's settled. ... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Okay. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] Why has the process of resolving hydropower plant ownership been stopped, it is one of the most important strategic topics, and now the whole process is standing? It is dangerous for HEP to permanently lose ownership on hydro facilities. Here, that's what I want to know. That's what people in the vault are interested in. An agreement was signed in co-operation with the Elektroprivred Herceg Bosnia in Mostar, and now nothing happens to continue business co-operation which is of particular strategic interest to HEP and thus also to the Republic of Croatia. What about cooperation with scientific institutions or colleges, and this agreement is signed and not implemented at all? Why did the share of electricity sold on the Slovenian market fall? Why is HEP leaving highly educated personnel? Here's maybe one thing that's easy to figure out, here's the time running out, there's a lot of it there. In HEP, the last two years. employs more than 1,000 employees of new, more than 1000, this is the number that is 100% verified. Is that what it was for, and it's not about the people with the school, it's about the people with the SS? Dear Minister Coric, here's what I see you've been writing down, I hope you've written down what I've been saying, perhaps you haven't, I hope you've put some of these remarks to rest, and hopefully, given that you still have confidence, or as long as you have the confidence of the Prime Minister that you'll do something about it. Here, take this as a well-intentioned criticism.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17798	Thank you. Now, on behalf of the promoter, five minutes will be spoken by Mr. Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17799	Thank you very much. Minister, you signed Krsh-Paden in 2017. without assessing the impact on the ecological network, regardless of whether the Agency for Nature and the Environment has opposed it. On your own, you speeded up this procedure and thus broke the law and thus struck the citizens of the Republic of Croatia that would cost more than 2 billion kuna. NP Krka 2000, so NP Krka you appointed Mrs. Slavica, regardless of what the administrative court has decided to cancel the competition where you damaged Ljiljana Zmjanovic, who had better conditions, had the status of defenders, you violated the Law on fellow and fellow defenders, respected citizens if you follow this. You have not answered the public about what happened in the club Mr. Kovacevic, the head of Janaf and everything you've been and how many times you've been, and we need to know, it was about counting money, the counter, it's not funny, it's what's worst in Croatian society where there's bribes and bribes from public procurement, money from public companies, where campaigns are paid, and that's how elections are won. You have to tell the public and the HS who chose you how many times you were, what did you do, what did you do, it's about the money and the money counter that was worn to the sacks, the money even in the gardens money and the trunks of the car? I would once again point out here what the minister doesn't do well outside this 3 item that I proudly signed with my 40 colleagues and colleagues and I will always sign this. Minister, you have endangered the environment and nature, even development in these areas. You've shut down Vrgorak's dump to tell the EU that if you'd gotten some conditions on that matter by running waste and sent it to Sinj 120 kilometers to drive the highway to Sinj in old trucks, I'd stand in front of the truck and stop again. Now to get revenge, you're saying that even a son's dump has no conditions and has not been remedied or anything else done, but we have a huge problem that 30 million kunas have gone away, and that's what a colleague of Sanader could talk much more about, the vice president of the Parliament, 30 million at the Lečevica Waste Management Center, a harmful project, but 30 million kunas have been spent exclusively and only for wages in that imaginary company, and we have a problem with waste disposal. No question has been answered except for attempts to deter the topic by Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, who spoke here, I think, on the Istanbul Convention, on coalitions, on this, on that. It was no problem for me to vote and today, when all the amendments were rejected, today when we have 2/3 of the empty in Croatia, when we are not using energy, I was hoping that you ministers of the threat and the environment and Prime Minister Plenkovic would bring here a declaration exclusively of the economic belt so that 24 thousand square miles of our seas would protect, govern and thus earn in the budget. I expected you to come here with a proposal to collect war damage from Serbia to make more money into our budget, not to hang out in clubs where key decisions are made in the underworld where the mafia masters, lend money from public procurement, where competition, competitiveness is destroyed, and that's why our economy is on these branches today because entrepreneurs can't survive. You don't respect court decisions. In the event of the appointment of Krka National Park, you are injuring the Law on Croatian Defence, based on the State of Croatia, on the Veterans Committee you mocked the defender and humiliated her, here, there may be outside members, evaluate, here, brother, Željko Poljak, brother of Ivica Poljak-Sokola, who commanded the Fairship, you have underestimated this Law on Defence. I'm surprised Minister Tommy Bear let that happen to the president of Veteran Committee Djakic who allowed humiliation, ridicule, boasting about those who created the state, and you treat her like Clubs like Slavonska 9. Thank you very much. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17800	Now it's Mrs. Devereaux's turn. Karolina Vidovic Kristo, who will speak on behalf of the House Movement Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17801	Ladies and gentlemen, the question of trust or mistrust is the question of which the ruling majority will show their real intentions to the Croatian and foreign public. Which way does he want to lead Croatia? For the first time, it would be the way of regret and turn and the beginning of building a fair society based on the rule of law, and the second time would be the continuation of the policy of injustice, inequality, corruption, hopelessness and agony. I want to give an example immediately in the introduction that happened almost two years ago in our neighborhood, in R. Austria when a famous affair from Ibiza was discovered. It was a secretly recorded conversation between Austrian Vice-President Strache and the alleged Russian entrepreneur. In the conversation that took place before Strache was a vice-cancer, there is talk of a possible bargaining in public tenders, in return for the entrepreneur to buy individual media in Austria who would then be independent of the Strache's political option. On Saturday, when the story was published in German Spiegel, Strache resigned immediately to save the coalition. However, Chancellor Kurz said, due to the government's credibility, broke the coalition and came up with new elections, and this decision by the Austrian Chancellor is the responsibility of behaviour towards his nation, which politicians show respect for their own legal order and send positive signals to their citizens. Let us now look at the facts of the behaviour of the Government of Andrej Plenkovic through the work of one part of the government, which is through the action of Minister Tomislav Ćorić. Let's take it in a row. It's a Janaf affair. What is so far known in the public affairs of the Janaf affair is the direct authority of Minister Ćoric, who, in his post as Energy Minister, succeeded Dragan Kovacevic as the director of JANAF, held him in office and extended his mandate. The Dragan Kovacevic affair refers to only one contest that Kovacevic is suspected of receiving bribes. However, when we take Mr. Kovacevic's property, as far as it's known, 9 real estate, it's incredible on bank accounts, and as we've seen in black bags, so when we take the waste, for example. in this club in Slovenia where he paid free tribute to the powers of the judiciary, politics, culture and media, then the question arises, were all the competitions set and what was Minister Ćorić's role in the affair? How much money was embezzled in JANAF and estranged from Croatian citizens if the competitions took place in a corrupt manner according to the model of this publicly known case? Mr. Ćorić confirmed that he was in that club himself and we can call it scandal no. 1. In companies the size of JANAF there are also supervisory boards whose role is to oversee the business of the administration, which will say, prevents theft and corruption from happening, and the chairman of the JANAF Supervisory Board who was supposed to oversee the work of the administration and Kovacevic is a certain Biljana Bukic who, according to a publicly available résumé, perfected her expertise in the Serb municipality in R. Srpski and does not speak any foreign language. The Janaf affair took place three months ago, and Mrs. is still the chairman of the JANAF Supervisory Board. - Mrs. Crescent. is completely out of line to what is seen through the résumé, and the other problem is the issue of her personal responsibilities, was she deliberately failing to monitor the work of the administration? It's scandal no. 2. The next affair is the wind power plant Krsh-Paden, and here's the fact about the wind power plant Krsh-Paden. The Government's reply to the request for interpretation literally states, on 4 August 2013, the building permit for the first phase of the project, the construction of access roads, the plateaus, the way to the trafostation for the first 50 wind generators and the change and addition of the location permit since 16 December 2013 which redefine the phase of the project. This means, there was a construction permit for 110 megawatts, and from the linguistic acrobatics of the Government's argument, it is not clear at all whether there was a building permit or it was only a building permit for access roads and trans-stations, but mentioning the location permit suggests that the contract with CROTE was signed entirely against the law because the law on renewable energy sources was prescribed the procedure under which CROTE signed the contract only when the building permit was justified, when the HERA's solution was justified and when the contract with the CAPS was in force. In spite of the above, three contracts with CEP total power of 142 MW were signed on 30 and 31 December 2013. In this case there is no doubt, the government itself confirms corruption and here is a criminal bargaining in the graduality documented. Minister Ćoric favored the CEMP by abolishing his predecessor, Minister Dobovic, and favoured him because he did not initiate the contract with HERA and HROTE. As far as HBOR's loan is concerned, we do not know whether or not he participated in it, or whether it goes exclusively to the address of Prime Minister Plenkovic and Minister of Finance Maric, but it is certain that the Government of Andrej Plenkovic via Minister Ćorić and Minister Marić is dealing with a man who is fleeing Croatian law and protecting him and is doing damage to Croatian taxpayers in the amount of 2 billion and 200 million kuna. It's scandal number three. Next up, scandal number four. The INA-MOL case, Croatia lost its arbitration against MOL in Geneva 2016 when Ćoric was not yet minister, but Andrej Plenkovic announced on Christmas Day 2016 that Croatia will buy the MOL stake in INA. I'm not gonna stick to the absurdity here that the customer orders a consultant to assess the value because we know that the market works on the basis of supply and demand, here is the question of negotiation, not evaluation. But it took Minister Coric two and a half years to choose a counselor. At that rate, the purchase of MOL's stake in INA could occur in 20 years when fossil fuels are banned by law for environmental protection. But after the loss of arbitration, Plenkovic and Coric filed a complaint against the Court of Arbitrarian Court's decision, which they all initially considered absurd and which was of course rejected by Croatia. Here is the question of financial damage that has been done to Croatian citizens by these pointless actions. However, there is another arbitration in Washington, which would make Croatia a state. Croatian citizens could pay 4.5 billion kuna. And that's where the question is, what's that minister doing? What does he do? Every minister is responsible for his portfolio, no matter who his predecessors were. He is obliged to take care and reduce the potential damage in his resistor and to seek possible solutions. In the case of INA, we see that there are no Coric's proactive actions to reduce the damage to Croatia, but there is a waste of state money. Let's look at the other segments of his responsibility, the investment manager who runs a Munich-based fund recently told me that when he seeks an interactive wind park map in Croatia, his 2011 page opens up. which is completely unusable. This may sound benign to someone, but it's very important. Minister Coric, do you ever visit your ministry's website, who edits that site? Are you aware that in today's digital time, such creaminess can be a key reason why an investment of, for example, 100 million euros does not come to Croatia but goes to Slovakia? Or let's look at your environmental resolution, there is a Jakuševac dump in Zagreb, you've already been Minister for four years, what have you done? Croatian capital 2020 has the most primitive form of waste disposal i.e. He's not here at all. We have billions in European funds for the Environment Protection project, but the projects should have and you can't get away with it at local level because you have a parliamentary majority and if your coalition partner symbolises corruption in Croatia Milan Bandic is unable to organise waste management on healthy ecological and economic principles, then you are obliged to pro-actively solve this problem through HS. Ladies and gentlemen, if we were to apply standards of political responsibility as applied by Austria in the case of Ibiza, given the arguments made by Minister Coric, he should have resigned long ago or had to be resolved by the Prime Minister. Unfortunately, Plenkovic has no intention of applying European standards in Croatia, Minister Ćorić's case is crown proof. The rule of law is not a goodwill but a commitment and there is no alternative, the only thing that the Government of Andrej Plenkovic is concerned with is the influence on the media so that the truth will not be learned because the truth about the government's actions and its structures towards Croatian citizens is devastating. In addition to violations of the law and corruption, the government of Andrija Plenkovic also stands out for nepotism, from the disgraceful Ćorić violation of the law and contempt of the court decision in the case of Ljiljana Zmijanovic until the recent appointment of cousin Andrej Plenkovic as director of Dubrava Hospital. And as we hear from the president and the prime minister, they also agreed to take care of their own godmothers at the short-term session under which Plenkovic's best man Igor Pozada will receive another mandate from the ambassador, and Milanovic's best man, Josko Klisovic, will also win the ambassador's post. If there were no confusion all the gentlemen just mentioned are from the family of communist powers from the time of the former Yugoslavia, that is the fact Mr Plenkovic, not hate speech because the truth has no ideological color it is only true. Nepotism destroys the system, it demotes work and honesty because why someone would try to work honestly and school when they can't progress anyway unless there's family ties in the system, so nepotism as well as corruption is evil. If the Croatian government respected European political standards then this example of abuse and corruption would not be possible at all, and if individual affairs were exposed and enlightened then the legality and interests of citizens would be protected. The result of this policy is the poverty of Croatian citizens, the blockade of 300,000 of our inhabitants and the 26th place per purchase power of 27 EU members. Defending is as indefensible as life teaches us Pier's victory, never ends well. I don't know if you're aware of the extent of the damage you're doing to the Croatian nation and state. [[Intruder Radin: Time, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17802	Thank you. Time. .../Speakers speak at the same time./... You have a breach of the Rules of Procedure from Mr. Habib.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17803	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Vice President. He's been injured. In the second century C.E., a colleague of hers had largely not talked about the subject, or about what was covered by this proposal, which she herself signed. And it's connected to the article. 125. Rules of Procedure where the Government has an obligation to manifest itself. Therefore, the government had neither the ability nor the possibility to manifest itself to this part that is not at all covered by this proposal. Therefore, I consider the Rules of Procedure injured. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17804	I said earlier if we were to punish someone or give a warning every time because he went past the subject then we would only deal with it, and what this government is going to have will find a way to point out, in what is said or has ways to manifest itself to what is said because I hope that gentlemen, Mrs. Kristo stayed to listen at least to what I had to say about it, but she left before, so we'll move on. - Mrs. Crescent. Anka Mrak-Taritash, Center and Voice Representatives Club, please. So, not only did the government go, but the MPs also go when they say, when, when it is done, it hurts the Rules of Procedure on what they said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17805	Thank you, well-respected Vice President HS, Honored Ministers Ćorić, colleagues and colleagues. I'll initially refer to two things. One thing, the history of a life teacher, and the other thing you say a lot more when you don't say something than when you say it. The history of a life teacher. In a former assembly of parliaments compared to the 14th government, it went several times with the minister's impeachment. We were as aware then as we are now, 76 is a lot more than 75. If we had 76 hands, we wouldn't be opposition, but we'd be something else, but we wanted to talk in this assembly about the unhappiness of certain ministers, and how did that end? It ended with the fact that as we often say here when conditions are met, so did Mr. Plenkovic, when he decided to resolve his ministers, then he did so and when the conditions were met, no matter what the last drop of blood he defended, some of them defended there all the time, when there was a debate from them, some like you Minister Ćorić was just introductive and then he went and left to listen to what the opposition had to say. Another thing that I really think should be referred to is that Mr Plenkovic, as Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, stopped for this pay phone and within 10 minutes defending Minister Ćorić found one single argument, and that is Minister Ćoric is a good man. He said what he thought about the opposition, but he didn't need to tell us, so we know what Prime Minister Plenkovic thought about the opposition, he said what the opposition was like, he talked about today both the Istanbul Convention and everything else. Mr. Plenkovic kept himself safe, and at no point did he mention the wind power plant in the Krš-Pađena procedure, in no word did he mention the INA-MOL Agreement, he was very careful not to say it. I've heard a lot more in my ears that he didn't at any time refer to it than he did to himself. So each of us says a lot more when he's not talking about something than when he wants to talk about something. So Minister Coric, with what I said, history is a teacher of life, I think you'll count the days for how long you'll be a minister. At the Centre and GLAS, we will support the club when the conditions for voting are met, distrusting you with the Minister of Economy and Sustainable Development. I'm going to name two key reasons, or rather I'm going to call the real name of two affairs, two scandals that made us decide. The first is the Krsh-Paden affair, and the second is the INA-MOL. In the case of wind power plants, Krs-Paden Minister Coric has shown that he is looking out for the investor's interest. And I'm a few times behind this pay phone, and I'm going to say every time I really need to take care of the interests of investors, but in the interests of all investors, not what's the problem, which is when the minister showed that he's only looking out for the interests of individual investors, and that he's neglecting the interests of the environment, the environment, the space and the state whose interests as minister should be protected. We can't allow a mess in space and it's a basic message, and in particular we can't allow a mess in space to be the result of a mess so I don't use any more difficult word in respecting procedures and laws. Once we make a mess in space, it's usually a permanent state that's hard to correct and the damage is permanent. Krsh-Paden really is one, what do I call it, an affair, a suspicious story, a troubled story. Despite Tomislav Ćoric's recommendations, Minister Tomislav Ćoric freed the investor from an assessment of the need for environmental impact assessment, making it significantly easier, faster and cheaper. None of us, regardless of whether we're eating here, without one such procedure, we can't estimate if it's for space, it's given for the environment, it's given for bird habitat, it's better to have smaller wind power plants or there's less power plants because it's actually been debated all the time. The regulations clearly state when it comes to reconstruction, clearly what, what is a reconstruction of procedures, whether it is realised or in realisation, what needs to be done. Of course, there is no need to ignore the next fact that the Krsh-Padene affair has received a whole new dimension by arresting Mrs. Joseph Rimac, when we discovered that a whole series of people were under suspicion of receiving bribes to push through, and some other Croatian public were well-known who also confirmed that they had been offered carrots or beatings depending on what they decided to do. Another reason why we support this proposal is the case of the INA-MOL affair, so one of the HDZ INA-MOL affairs, the one we are talking about today, is the signing of Minister Coric at a memorandum that seems another step towards the full handover of INA to MOL. Hundreds of thousands of tonnes of Croatian oil under the agreement, whose co-signator, Minister Coric, instead of in Rafineri Rijeka, has been reprocessed in Hungary, not to mention that in this memorandum, it defines that from Croatia, the transport of crude oil to a refinery in Hungary and Slovakia, while at the same time modernising the Refinery in Rijeka? Every year, the news comes that right here is about to start a big investment, that right here is where the big modernization isn't going. Sisak, as we know, is closed because he allegedly made losses, but the main thing is to transport crude oil from Sisak or Rijeka to Hungary or Slovakia for processing. It is also disputed at the memorandum that INA is called a member of the MOL group. INA is a Croatian oil company in which MOL has 49.1% stakes and still acts formally as an independent company including on the stock market and is not officially integrated into the MOL as a member of the MOL group. Along the way, the MOL group does not exist in the Hungarian company register, but therefore exists on memos signed by Croatian Minister of Economy and Sustainable Development Tomislav Ćoric. Perhaps here it is to the end conveniently remind her of an interesting separation to say or a special niche of the INA-MOL affair in the issue of Ćorić. Namely, let me remind you when the media discovered the existence of a memo and its contents, Minister Coric, succeeded in attacking a journalist over things that the journalist writes in closed groups with his colleagues. Perhaps if he had read less closed news groups, and more memos signed by Minister Tomislav Coric would not have problems today. And finally, I've been in this world for a long time, and I've learned that things really happen when they happen. I learned that things are often repeated, and I learned that there is always a need to read between the lines or what is printed in small letters and hear what has not been said. It seems to me that, as we have time left to discuss here, so does Minister Ćorić's house and time, how many days he has left, and there is one person who knows what the starting position is, and that is Prime Minister Plenkovic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17806	Now it's the Green-Left Block Club, first Mr. Tomašević will speak, and then Mrs. Bencic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17807	Thank you. Here we are today discussing the last three hours of impeachment or trust of Minister of Unsustainable Development Tomislav Coric. It is clear what caused this mistrust that the opposition here required in Parliament to vote on this mistrust because Minister Ćoric made it very clear to the investor in the Krš-Pađen project the same investor whose minister's party colleague Josipa Rimac also favored USKOK, in a different way, but also favored even for the same project, as well as other projects. In September 2019, the same environment devastation minister amended the regulation on the management of municipal waste, which had a disastrous system for the collection of municipal waste, and eventually the Constitutional Court went to suspend the application of that regulation by quoting the Constitutional Court's ruling or the Constitutional Court's decision, because they would not consider it to be their opinion, to meet the objectives of environmental protection. You joined the field of famous environmental ministers. I do not know that it has succeeded in suspending the application of one environmental regulation to the Minister of Environmental Protection in Croatia for this reason, and since then, as far as I know, and unmanage me, nothing has been done in that field. So it happened at the end of January, now it's November, we're coughing about separate waste collection, we're being threatened by big EU pens, and nothing's been done since. Furthermore, Minister Ćorić you also drank and ate in an illegal bar whose owner is the person you had appointed before to be the director of Janafa, so you appointed Kovacevic to be the director of Janafa, you are the Janafa Assembly as a resolution minister and then you drank and ate in his illegal beer. I suppose you don't have an account because I suppose they don't even betray them there, but I'd also be interested in how much you ate and drank in terms of how much that gift was that you got from the director who you were obliged to oversee as a member of the Janaf Assembly. So if that gift was more than 500 kuna, if you ate and drank more than 500 kuna, that would also be interesting to find out. Furthermore, you yourself have said in a discussion of the interpretation that you are not an expert in environmental protection or in the portfolio that you have been leading for three years, but rather a statement of resignation. If you've taken that resistor to guide him, and you're not an expert on the subject, I guess you could have learned something in three years and then at least learn something about this subject if you've already dared to run a resort that you're not professional in any way. I would never dare run the Health Department, for example, but you dared still be, dare to be minister. If you're not an expert then why didn't you listen to experts from your ministry, from your ministry administration who said, on what grounds was the solution for Krš-Pajene made, that I should assess the impact on the ecological network? Why did you not listen to experts from the Croatian Environment and Nature Protection Agency who also said that? You didn't listen to them, you reportedly listened to the DORH who told you that there would be damage to the state and that you need to undo it for how long, in the first 50 days since you became Minister, that you should cancel the decision that was only a few months old for this project, and, but there's no official record of DORH telling you, some meeting, no memo, at least the last time you didn't tell me, you said there wasn't when we had the discussion about the impellation. And I'm saying, you can't remember or say that you're not sure who the first person contacted, the DORH you or the Ministry of Environmental Protection or you DORH about going, that it's not waiting first, because the most normal thing to do is to make such solutions about environmental impact assessments and impact on the environmental network that investors complain and initiate administrative disputes, is the lawsuit, and in the end you can see who's right. You didn't wait to see how the court would rule it out, but you went automatically to undo your predecessor's solution allegedly because that would result in damage to the state. We need to discuss your trust today, you are obviously a burden to the government and you are a burden to Croatia, because you are at the head of the most important ministry, Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development, it is a huge ministry, it is the most important ministry for the withdrawal of funds, the next generation of the EU and others, as well as financial perspectives and structural funds. So, to get Croatia out of this crisis, to increase resilience to new crises, to recover, it is the most important ministry and you are too obviously burdened with these affairs and in this sense you are a burden not only to the government but to the Republic of Croatia. What is obviously a green economy, as you see it in HDZ's way, is an economy in which HDZs fill their pockets with green bills of EUR or dollars, or as Josepha Rimac said nicely, "wind blows, and you fill pockets". And then these same investors, these same firms donate HDZ and finance a pre-election campaign, which is people of my circular economy in HDZ's way. This is a green economy in the HDZ way, and this is a circular economy in a green way. I told Mr. Plenkovic that you were the weakest link in this government and only a few months after that, the first minister whose trust is being discussed is you. So that's when we predicted it well. We are discussing trust today, and we will soon vote on yours, on your trust. However, the public, the Croatian public has already voted in polls. You are the most unpopular minister in this government. So the Croatian public has already voted that there is no trust in you and we hope that soon enough, that when the vote comes it will also be understood by parliamentary representatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17808	Thank you very much. Mrs. Devereaux. It's a ben. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17809	I would like to thank the Honorable Vice President, Your Honor. So, I've already said several times, when I first talked about, when we talked about the government's trust, we voted here in government, that for me, Mr. Coric's unimportant motivation was within his role in Krsh-Paden rather than the fact that however we're going to pay a minimum of 1.2 billion kuna more, the price of electricity than we would have done if he hadn't favored the investor. That fact alone is enough for me for political responsibility, but unfortunately that's not all. First, how did it come to be responsible for the 1.2 billion kuna? You say it wasn't your fault, those were the agreements before, etc., etc., you just continued that policy. True, however, you favored the investor in a way that counter-European law which is part of the EU's internal law abolished a solution that requires an impact assessment study on the ecological network despite your professional services, since you already say you are not an environmental expert, have warned that you must do such a study because it is part of the Habitats Directive. That this is such clear evidence is also the fact that the European Commission has therefore initiated a case against Croatia for breach of EU law in June of this year and that you have received 4 months to correct it and that it clearly wrote in this document that such impact assessments must be done on the ecological network for all wind power plants in the coastal and hinterland. So it is clear that you have violated EU law which is also part of the right of the Republic of Croatia. Except for the damage of 1.2 billion kuna, we're moving on, selling oil this year. So, according to all the oil experts who said this in public and showed the calculation, the loss that we achieved, or which Mr. Ćoric achieved about 300 million kuna to 350 million kuna. Why? Because we didn't sell oil for the price of oil that we sold to the Hungarians because we didn't calculate transport costs. So that's where the question is, what was the motivation? Was motivation a favor to MOL? Is this part of the broader common energy policy of Mr. Coric, Plenkovic and Orban, or is it just incompetence? And I say again, it doesn't matter because we lost 300 million kuna minimum. We're at least a billion and a half now. We're sending oil for processing in Hungary, and that's what my colleague was talking about. Why aren't we many in the river? Why didn't JANAF build a reverse pipe to the river? Is that something that was discussed, agreed at the club with Mr Kovacevic? We don't know. Did the club also have a common policy on investing Hungarians in LNG? Was there a Mr. Vujnovac at the club? I don't know. Maybe we could get an answer. And why don't I know, even though I asked that question who Mr. Coric was at the club with? I don't know because, of all the answers he gave me in the answers to my representative's question, he just accidentally failed to give an answer to who else was with him at the club. Maybe it was someone who was of interest to us right about this question. I'll set it up again and ask for a written answer. Has the PPD played any role in agreeing to invest Hungary's state-owned company MVM in LNG? Is he, in that part, were you or Mr. Prime Minister involved? Did you also know that the exchange between gas purchased by Gazprom PPD and the gas reportedly purchased by the MVM in LNG was made? Please answer by the end of the day. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17810	Now it is Mr Branko Bačić, who will speak on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17811	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues, the picture of the assembly at the moment is best spoken of by the quality of this humble, poor clock and its argument and how many of those who signed it behind it. Yesterday, the opposition cendraled all day because they don't listen to the fact that by listening to them, you can't react at all because you don't have an instrument, because you're being warned. When the amendment is explained, it is only an interaction between the amendment's proposings and the government's representatives. We're all just garriring. What's going on here now, my dear promoters, isn't it embarrassing for you? Of the 40 of you who are so heartily attacking this minister here, there are 5 of you here. Here it is, here's 5 of you. [[Intruder: No matter what you deceive people, this is an epidemiological measure here, people are in the halls.]] Look here you are 5. [[Intruder: Since you're not ashamed, epidemiological measures.]] [[Insect: Shame on you, shame on you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17812	Please, I'm going to have to make warnings to distract the session, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17813	Here, here...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17814	Please, please, for the last time, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17815	This is 5 of you, you got there. [[Now we'll all come here, everybody, we'll all come here.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17816	Two warnings Mr. Bully and Mr. Grmoya, Mr. Grmoya You don't have the right words anymore, and Mr. Bull is the third warning. [[Intruder: There is no more right to the voice of the word until the end.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17817	There's only five of you here.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17818	Second warning, Mr. Bull's second warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17819	We also looked at the neighboring halls.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17820	... Wait a minute, excuse me, Mr. Bačić, I gave Mr. Bacic, I have to, I owe, I owe,... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]] Mr. Bacic, I'm going to have to warn you too. [[Speakers speaking at the same time do not understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17821	So...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17822	Mr. Bacic, Mr. Bacic!
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17823	Who? We're before we, not the service but we counted it ourselves and that...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17824	And the gentleman, and Mr. Bacic has, and Mr. Bacic has a warning, too, yes, yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17825	For what?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17826	Yeah, to distract the session. I now, now I am obliged to tell Mr. Grmoya why I gave him a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17827	So in the assembly at this point there are five proposings of this...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17828	Please be nice, excuse me, excuse me. With my incursions or otherwise distracting the speaker, which is why I gave you both a warning to you and Mr. Bull, and to you... The third warning and you no longer have the right to speak, Mr. Bulj has another warning. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]] And the warning is Mr. Bacic who accepted the game. Here you go, Mr. Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17829	Now, sir joined in, Mr. Grbin now has six, that is, so much about how tightly they stand by them with a reasoned, reasoned work on asking for the minister's trust. Another thing I must also say, which is that I am not surprised at the part of the proposings belonging to these smaller political parties. However, I must say that I am surprised at this approach in this request, that is, the question of the momentum of the SDP minister's responsibility, because behind this I said the poor watch stands with the signing of the SDP president, the head of the opposition with a request or a motion to launch a responsibility that is indeed at the level of a small undetected non-parliamentary party. What's this about? And that's not surprising to me, for the second time today, the SDP is blaspheming, the first time he left this morning's vote on amendments to the budget, and the second time he's signed this same article with a representative who calls them part of a joint corrupting enterprise. And the SDP gentlemen go through it so easily. But the thing about going back to the metrics. In the first and first reasons for the launch of the responsibility, Minister Ćorić cites as the fundamental reason for the motions, you state as the fundamental reason for the decision of the Administrative Court in Split which annulled the minister's decision. In the second, in the second reason why it is charged with the CEMP, you do not mention the Administrative Court in Split at all, which confirmed this solution and even as much as possible by the appeal of the Green Action, the High Administrative Court in Zagreb confirmed the solution again. What are the double criteria? In that first, in that first reason, the issue of responsibility is based on their own, their claim, or their proposal, that, that the minister should be removed from the ruling of the administrative court, and in the second addition to the two certificates, so two solutions, two rulings of the administrative court are not mentioned at all. So much for your credibility, so much for your credibility. You even shut up. There your administrative court is the basis for the replacement of the minister, and here, when the administrative courts in Croatia confirm the solution, it should be replaced again. So he should be replaced by you even after he has acted on the ruling of the administrative court and when the Constitutional Court confirms everything he does, and even when the administrative court has failed to confirm his decision, then he clearly acted in another procedure, did as he appointed Mrs. We're now expecting a complaint from the principal's celebration that she'll be resolved by the administrative court next time. But if you gentlemen are in the SDP, I am speaking to you, you have been ministers in the government, the basis for seeking responsibility, the political responsibility of the minister only the solution of the administrative court, I am surprised that here he could place his signature on this article by Minister Bauk, whose constitutional court has brought down the entire law because of the revolving door, and the revolving door when translated into our beautiful Croatian language means "indulgence", and that is the entrenched beginning of the SDP in 2012. When he said that without a public competition, he'd have nothing to do with dragging his similar party friends and friends into the state administration. And it's not true, Mr. Grbin, that you deceived your colleague from this pay phone when you said that, that the SDP was intended, had the intention of re-regulating a certain number of reliable people, individual ministers, to drag with them into the state administration, and then after 4 years. I'll go. No, you, I remember it well, and that's what the Constitutional Court told you publicly, you tried to drag your party likeness into the state administration through re-enactment, and then by redistributing them from one ministry to another, cementing them in the state administration, and it took them down to you, it was annulled by your constitutional court because such an amendment to the Law on civil servants and tenants was unconstitutional, unconstitutional. And not to say how much the constitutional court of your other acts has annulled this act because they were not against the constitution. And to you, and to you or, for example, to Mrs. The dark-tarried who's also here, here she signed,... Her building permits and local permits for illegality have been revoked by the administrative court. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] It did not occur to you at that time that as a member of your government to get rid of her or Mr. Zmajlovic, who was former Minister Ćorić in that same ministry, the administrative court knocked down his solution to the acceptability of the Dubrovnik golf course, the solution to the acceptance of the golf course, the construction of the Dubrovnik golf course, and that the administrative court annulled that solution, which was the basis of the Golf Company to demand today in the arbitration of a huge, huge billion kunas from the Republic of Croatia. It was made by a minister from this government whose same administrative court annulled the solution and none of it, it was absolutely no dispute, then none of you thought to ask for the responsibility of Mr. Michael Zmajlovic for what was done then? And now, here for the appointment of the director of a national park, you seek the responsibility of a minister who, by decision, has absolutely acted by the administrative court. And the fourth thing that's here when we talk about the metrics is very important, so the minister was communicating, and maybe even during the evening. Yes, he was at this famous club in Slovenia, after the second confirmation, i.e. the third term of the director, i.e. the president of the board of directors, Janaf, began. However, it is not clear to me that I have to say, and I would like someone to explain this to me, if the criteria for replacing the Minister of Protection or Minister of Economy and Sustainable Development is that one club visited, then, because of its credibility, these same signatories and the promoters of its resolutions should initiate the procedure... recalls the president of the state because he was in the same club during the lockdown and called on the head of HV headquarters. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] If you had initiated the president's impeachment because he visited a club even though he made fun of you all, you should have said the same thing to many of you who accused him of making fun of you in a number of his statements, if you had initiated the president's recall procedure then you would have a credible one, you would have the same criteria when calling Minister Coric's recall. But, no wonder, that code didn't happen at the time of lockdown, it's being kept quiet, it's not being mentioned here anywhere, but on the other hand, it's quite right, it wants to be dealt with with by the Minister of Economy and Sustainable Development. So to conclude, we at the HDZ Club have carefully studied this, I said just now, a poor piece. I expected that when the SDP comes behind it that it will still be something that we will have to try to do in the afternoon here in the assembly to explain that it is not true, but this is not what we have a lot of work to do about this, we have nothing to do with this request but we at the club as we have already said, so I am convinced that on Friday we will vote the confidence of Minister Coric. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17830	Thank you very much. We have several violations of the Rules of Procedure, a respected representative of Tomašević first, what has the Rules of Procedure been injured in?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17831	So here's the thing, Agent Bacic hurt his ankle. 238. The Rules of Procedure, since he disrespected the MPs and you have applied the exact same criteria, means when he said be ashamed, a fellow member of the opposition to Peja Grbin has been warned... She did, and she also warned her colleague Murganic not to say the same shame, and then her colleague Bacic also mentioned it, and after that, the whole situation arose. [[Intruder: You don't understand.]] The chairman did not warn him, and thus he defamed the MPs. So Article 238 broke.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17832	Thank you very much. This colleague, Tomašević, first wrongly you got the warning, and now you will get it. This is because you abused the institution of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17833	How did I abuse it? Why don't you explain to me how I abused you?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17834	Because, on the basis of Article 240(1), do I give you a reminder by taking away the words?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17835	Why? Based on what?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17836	On the basis of Article 240(2), I give you a reminder by taking away the words until the end of the debate on this subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17837	And for what? What for? How I abused the Rules of Procedure so... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17838	You can't argue with me at all, not at all, not at all, not at all, not at all, not at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17839	I owe you an explanation. I owe you an explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17840	On the basis of Article 241(1), I give you the distance from the session. Please leave the hall.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17841	Tell me why I abused Article 238 of the Rules of Procedure, tell me on what basis?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17842	I'm setting a break of 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17843	So you can't make decisions without saying that, how can you prescribe.../incomprehensible/... without explaining them.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17844	Read to yourself the Rules of Procedure, and you will know what you are doing and that you are doing wrong.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17845	So you have to explain how I abused the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17846	I've told you all the articles, the articles, study your Rules of Procedure at last, so you'll know how to behave in this assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17847	So to warn that a man broke, hurt the Rules of Procedure, and then I got a warning. Unbelievable.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17848	We have a break until 6:00. It's 6:11 p.m. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 18.20 HOURS]] I've got two other reported injuries to the Rules of Procedure here. Dear representative Vesna Vucilovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17850	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Bačić was injured by the Rules of Procedure. 238, because he just didn't stick to the subject. Most of his presentations were first numbered by MPs, so he counted who took care of the more ear, whether HDZ or SDP then building permits, and eventually who was in that basement that we all call a club. There, so much for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17851	Okay, uh, it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, of course. Uh, I won't give you a warning, but I'm asking you all in the future, come on, please, let's not argue with the pseudo-inflicted Rules of Procedures that aren't. It's very broad today, everything and everything. It's not just about the subject, a lot of speakers have gone far beyond the subject, I don't really mean to react, unless it's explicitly exaggerated, but please nice, let's concentrate on the topic that's here, every word will say what he thinks, one way or another, but let's stick to the subject, okay? Here's the esteemed representative of Glamuzina, also reported an injury to the subject. Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17852	The Honorable Chairman, Art. 239. The Rules of Procedure have been broken by you. The article says the MP will be given a warning if he acts contrary to the Article. 238 of this Rules of Procedure. Not a single item. The 238nd fellow Tomašević did not break, so the first warning you gave him was too high, followed by the others, you need to give yourself a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17853	Like this. I won't give you a warning either, but please. Well, please, let's not do that, I repeat, the pseudo-injury of the Rules of Procedure actually abuse this very same Rules of Procedure. Let's concentrate on the subject, each of us from his point of view will say within the subject, but let's stay inside the topic, please. Comrade Bencic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17854	So I repeat what my colleague said before me, so you never and not one vice president or president who led the session is a person because of one warning or for one thing, you did this for the first time, and that's exactly what our representative Tomasevic did, and that's how you handled the final discriminatory and unequal in view of the practice in this House, and that's that when it comes to the first injury, to give the warning. He didn't do any harm like that. in the second... [[First of all, you are now.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17855	You are now extending time, and by doing so, you are already violating the Rules of Procedure. Secondly, as a lawyer, you might know that at least you have to call on the article of the Rules of Procedure, which you did not do, so I will give you a warning. ... If you're going to continue to Polish with me, I will because you have no right to do so under the Rules of Procedure, read your Rules of Procedure. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] On behalf of the government, the respected Minister Tomislav Coric will now speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17856	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President of HS, distinguished MPs and MPs, allow me to use a few minutes after the club's presentation to address you on several topics mentioned here, however, at the very beginning I will refer to the words of Representative Mrak-Taritash. I am aware of the fact that the moment a man becomes a minister, that the day he leaves the ministerial post is closer. And indeed, in 2016, when I became Minister of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, it was a great honor, and that is why every day, in the position of the Minister independently and in such discussions, it is indeed an honor. The day I'm no longer Minister of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I'll return to my job or do something third, it doesn't matter. I'd like respected MPs and MPs, especially Mrs. Poirot. Dark-Taritant to keep that in mind the next time she observes the date of my departure, he's irrelevant. What's important, it's important that it certainly won't come to this departure because in the case of Krsh-Paden, I did something contrary to the interests of the Republic of Croatia because it didn't happen. What's very important is that in the event of Mrs. President's appointment, I did not injure the Croatian Defence Act. And it wasn't about canceling the contest. Mr. Bulj, you have repeatedly manipulated the Croatian public today, and over the past few years, dozens of times. You mentioned some candidates' cards in that contest. Well, ma'am. The snakenovic you've been propagating over the past few years has been a member of the HDZ recently, too, is now a member of the Homeland Movement, however. So in that contest that was held, we keep in line with the law, which we have elaborated, in the second solution, it has clearly shown everything that it is based on several criteria of Mrs. Slavica was the best candidate. As for my stay at a club in Slovenia, it happened three times. In the month of May, at the end of June, at the end of August. This in no way corresponds to the fact that in the 2nd month of this year, Mr Kovacevic, for the 3rd time, as he has today in the debate appointed the president of the management of JANAF. The accidental information that has missed those who are based on the statement seems to me to be the president of the Committee for Decision on Conflict of Interest, which had no better to do that day, launched this debate, all of which is that the only candidate for the management of JANAF was Mr Dragan Kovacevic in the competition. The only one. But it obviously doesn't matter to some people here. I'll answer some questions that were raised during the debate, which I only have two minutes to discuss. So, Mrs. Benčić LNG Croatia independently leases capacity, the ministry had nothing to do with it, we had nothing to do with it as far as I know. 5 capacity tenants have been completed. Spop on the gas market is a standard gas business, as well as in other markets, and I'm sure you know that, and those who prepared your report, I'm sure they do, too, I'm sure of it. As far as I'm concerned, who's going to build gas with, it's quite all the same, what the interest of the Republic of Croatia was and has achieved that LNG Croatia has leased capacity on the one hand, and on the other hand that Plinarro as a firm will also operate on the basis of it. And that the owners of LNG Croatia, which is Croatia's electricity and Plinacro, will have income and profit from it. I think that's what I referred to. Mr. Bull is proud to have signed a motion for my recall. I'm sure Mr. Bully you've never read it all the way, but that's another thing, that might not be so important for this debate. Mrs. Kristo has a great diction and I absolutely admire every exhibit she has here in the assembly, but in that presentation there was a whole series of false things. The first and most basic is that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has, in any context, favored the investor in the wind power plant Krš-Padene that did not happen. It just didn't happen. When I talk about some other moments, especially the exposure of Mr. Tomasevic, who declares me a minister of threats like Mr. Bulj, these are very nice thesis I have against them, but look, he said in his presentation and the fact that I was only 50 days after I became a minister and after consulting with the State's Attorney's Office made a decision. Well, yeah, I'm a minister in the government of the Republic of Croatia, and I might just be one more day, maybe a little longer. However, what I have done and done and I will do as long as I am a minister I will make decisions that I hold in line with the interests of the Republic of Croatia. I'm not going to lie in the ministry like some circus guys have been lying on the road for years, and that way they're building their careers, that's not my style, I'm just not a circus guy. I'm here to do my job the best I know. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17857	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas, please stay here. He is the first respected representative of Matko Kuzmanic Comrade Bull, please sit down! [[Intruder: Ministers in hand is the solution of the Court of Justice.]] I'm sorry, I'm sorry because I called my colleague Tomasevic, I'm sorry. [[I'm...]] My bad.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17858	Thank you very much. Minister, my hand is the ruling of the Administrative Court in Split, where your exception to the judge is denied, has a solution where it has refused that an illegal competition is the Administrative Court, the court that you set up for Slavica, I am talking about Croatian defenders irrelevantly, and whether Mrs Ljiljana Zmjanović in HDZ is either in the SDP or I do not know in which other party of the Homeland Movement, MOSTU, I am absolutely not interested. You have exclusively worked here on the orders of Mr Dujic, who is the local sheriff of the county and you had to do it, once admit that you are the minister who must listen either to Kalmet or Dujic or Sander or Bačić as they say and that is the case, such a system is parallel. Otherwise you wouldn't be a minister if it wasn't for them. And as for Nela Slavica, she had two IDs at that point, 2, she had a 2 when you play the pens and get caught like this, so HNS and HDZ. That's a fact. And there's no status as a defense attorney... [[Thank you very much.]] [[Speakers speaking at the same time do not understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17859	The reply of the respected Minister Coric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17860	Mr Bulj, once again, I will refer you to the fact that you have now expressed the lie, so the competition by the Administrative Court in Split has not been declared harmful, but it is in that verdict that you do not now have a solution to the judge's exemption, in that judgment it is called for further elaborated final solution. This final solution was further elaborated, Mrs. Slavica was nowhere near, Mrs. Zmijanovic was nowhere near the best candidate, before she had several candidates within that contest. As far as party cards are concerned, I've already told you everything. As for my listening or not listening and obeying, those who know me a little better know how far you are from the truth, but I'll leave that to you for further assessment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17861	The next replica is the respected representative Kuzmanic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17862	Thank you. Dear Minister Djoric, here I am not going to attack you as my colleagues, in a way I am a little sorry for you. Now I'll tell you why. I don't live in the belief that we're going to replace you here because you have a majority, but learn something from history. The same society that defends you now, if one day you prove that you did something illegal and God forbid you end up on the other side of the law will suffer from collective amnesia. You'll probably never be a member of the HDZ again, pretend they don't know you, and they won't have any problems with that. Maybe it's not your fault, maybe you just got into a bad society and a bad society that's fighting corruption. It's won that corruption more than once, same as the crown won at 4 months, so now we have one similar situation again. So it might finally prove that you're not guilty, but you're simply in a society like that, that's all.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17863	Dear Minister Coric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17864	Mr. Kuzmanic, I thank you first of all for the support you are expressing to me, you do not have to express it again as part of the vote because it is not really something I expect from you. If at any time, at any point in time, at any moment of my decision, at any point in the functioning of the ministry that I am led to prove my responsibility, I am not asking for anyone's mercy. That's not an option. I don't think I've seen you at the debate that preceded this discussion of government's interpretation of work, I'm not that guy. How else can I tell you, we don't know each other, so maybe you don't understand. So, my society is a very correct society, trust me, and I'm a person who hangs out a lot.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17865	The next replica is the respected representative Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17866	Dear Ministers, you have just added another point of reason for the recall when you told me that for the infrastructure in which Croatia invested and invested another EUR 100 million, the EU 100 million and the two state-owned companies still do not know, you did not know, you did not participate in the talks on who would rent LNG terminal capacities. So if you're really not and if what you said is true, it's already for your resignation. But I will repeat the question because I do not believe in the claim that you did not participate, I do not believe for reasons because the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Hungary called the job with LNG a historic job, so he also directly admitted that he was involved and that he negotiated it, and our minister in charge of energy says he knows nothing about it. I ask you again, what was the role of the PPD in agreement with the Hungarians about the lease capacity in LNG?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17867	Dear Minister Coric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17868	Ma'am. Bencic, I thank you for your question, but I will remind you one more time, and that's how every time we talk about this hysterical activism that you show you every time you ask questions it won't go away. So, if I were a minister, I'd influence who's allowed to rent terminal capacity on the island of Krk...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17869	Mr. Minister, please excuse me for interrupting, I would beg you not to use such words.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17870	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17871	Please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17872	So if I as a minister could influence it and influence it then you as a person who knows European law should know as well as everyone here that I would actually violate competition at EU level. And in this context, in the Republic of Croatia, and in our societies as owners of LNG terminals on the island of Krk, it was in interest to purchase the terminal capacity. As you know he reaches his physiology at 1.6 bsm per year, at this point the capacity is significantly higher and is leased significantly higher. So, as for my conversations with Mr. Szijart, I was familiar with the fact that Hungarian companies would go towards the lease because we talked about it several times, which the Croatian public was informed about. But how much, when and how I didn't know.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17873	Thank you very much. We have again the injuries of the Rules of Procedure, the esteemed representative of Glamuzine.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17874	The Honorable Chairman has been injured. 238, because I think calling any representative is hysterical of her demeanor, but now you're a little different in interpreting him, so maybe you'll accept him.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17875	Well, I said it, and I said it, and I said it, so I don't think there's any need to, here's a respected representative, Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17876	Yes, I think equally, in 238, I think today on the Day of Fight against Violence Against Women call any representative hysterical, and before that talking about rolling activists on the roads, this is about ministers who were not rolling on the road, but were in more suspicious places than the road. I think you should have reacted back then.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17877	I reacted and I don't know if you hear, don't hear what I'm saying, don't listen, don't listen to what I'm saying, but I've responded very clearly to that. Uh, colleague Kuzmanic, you have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, too?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17878	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Vice President. A colleague, Ćorić, injured the article of Rules of Procedure in disdaining our colleague Bencic, and now I'm kind of glad I wasn't on the team, such associations that I might not have picked up such manners, so he acted like one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17879	Okay, now you guys are insulting him, and now we're gonna what? If I had let you insult him, he would have offended you, would he, would it be like this house? No, I won't give you a warning, but you've actually given yourself a warning. Please, let's not, let's not go down to those levels, let's keep the level that belongs to this home, please. We have a replica of the respected representative of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17880	Thank you. Dear Minister, I would love to, in order to properly inform the public, we would like to discuss the Law on Croatian Defence again. So, you did not violate the Law on Croatian defenders is in point 101 clearly talking about St. 1. who has priority in employment if he is a Croatian defender, whether he is employed on certain or undefined terms only, rather than prioritizing that he will choose a Croatian defender. Equally, the directorial post is not employment on a fixed or undefined basis but is at the term of office. So this can't actually be applied to it at all. It's clearly known, and here these days we've often heard from some MPs to mention it, so I'd like to, because the law says so, that we'll follow the law then. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17881	Dear Minister Coric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17882	Thank you, well-respected representatives of the coat of arms. That's exactly what this is about, Art. 101st is precisely prescribed that the Croatian defender has the right to take advantage if, in this particular case, the overall assessment of candidates consisted of conversations, written work and work experience, or an assessment of work experience, and she was suspected of being on the side of the candidate Slavica. Let me also look back at the moments shown here. I apologize, but I'm holding my arms in my direction as a threat, ma'am. Boric, and that happens behind your back when you show Mrs. Deer. Bencic, so please, but on this day, protection from violence, it would be good to keep that in mind. As for my hanging out outside HS space and in some alternative spaces, ma'am. I've also seen you in other places outside this assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17883	Like this, I see you've begun to play with the injuries of the Rules of Procedure. I now move on to other criteria, therefore whenever it departs strictly from the breach of the Rules of Procedure and when the same abuse moves with sanctions. Here you are, the esteemed representative of the Glamze.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17884	A fellow minister, not really a colleague, but Minister Coric has just hurt his ankle again. The 238th implicitly accusing my colleague Bencic of violence, I don't know on what grounds?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17885	It's no breach of the Rules of Procedure, you get a warning. Dear Representative Boric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17886	I think that the violation of the Rules of Procedure where a violent act of someone who has spoken truly is something that is in all books, which is to accuse women of, for violence, that they are hysterical, and we know you are a doctor, where the word "histeria" comes from, so I am also someone who behaves with hands, and it seems to me that Mr. Coric is also, so now I can get a warning, is increasingly acting as Mr. Plenkovic towards haughtiness, but there is no regret in his capacity.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17887	Yes, you do, and you didn't call on the article of the Rules of Procedure. The next replica of the respected representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17888	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, one, one of the reasons why your impeachment is sought is the judgment of the Administrative Court in Split, which is neither indicated nor quoted properly, nor you have violated the Law on the Rights of Defence. However, here is Mr. Bulj's solution to the Administrative Court in Split, but very interesting that neither he nor the Proposer cites the other two solutions. One of the Administrative Courts in Split, and the other of the High Administrative Court in Zagreb, which fully accepted your decision which annuls the Ministry's decision.../incomprehensible/..., so the Croatian administrative courts in both the first and second stages said that you had acted in accordance with the law, and for this reason they ask you to step down what you have done under the law because the administrative court confirmed it in both the first and the second degree.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17889	The answer of the respected representative, Minister Ćorić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17890	Thank you very much, Mr Bačić, so the judgment of the Administrative Court in Split and the High Administrative Court went in the direction that the decision of the Ministry of Environmental and Energy Protection of July 2017 was legally, therefore, legally and thus the case was placed on court cases ad act. On the other hand, this is, of course, not mentioned in the request for opposition for my impeachment because it is not in favour of them, nor will I repeat the consultations with the State's Attorney's Office once more before this solution is adopted. On the other hand, in the context of the second point of the request, Mr Bulj is calling for a trial before the Administrative Court in Split which has not been completed, and at the first instance it is not annulled, the solution has not been annulled, but has been returned to the reasoning or re-determination, which is a very big difference. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17891	And the last replica of the respected representative Pavic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17892	The Honorable Vice President, the Honorable Minister, so it seems we have collective amnesia on the left hand side of the assembly when we say that, when we say that just contracts for Krsh-Paden have been signed in the last hours of 2013. We don't remember the efficiency of the state administration, but just say something about the auction model. There's a new model that you and the government of Andrej Plenkovic have brought, which is much more just, going in a better direction, so we know what we're doing. The SDP government has been setting up 9 competitions in recent minutes in 2013, the HDZ government is offering a new fairer and better model. That's what the public needs to know.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17893	Dear Representative, Honored Minister Coric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17894	Thank you very much, Agent Pavic, that's right, so the previous model so-called. feed-in tariffs allowed potential investors in renewable energy projects to have about 1,900 in the Republic of Croatia for their production, or for produced electricity, in view of the initial stage in which the entire industry was found to generate revenue or generate profits which are slightly greater than the usual market returns. The auction model that we have applied or apply to the current auction that is currently under way while we are discussing it is going in the opposite direction or going towards competition among producers, with the above prices clearly and significantly lower than the current prices. For example, prices that are very often mentioned from 71 lip in wind power plants are limited or will be limited in a large auction to 40 and a couple of limes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17895	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the promoter, a respected representative, Mirela Ahmetovic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17896	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. There are many MPs here, including Minister Coric himself, and the prime minister also tried and managed to compromise Ivan Vrdoljak because of his actions in the former governments. As I said in the debate, so I have no problem discussing the work of the government in the Krsh-Paden affair, not at all. But you first gentlemen and ladies representatives from HDZ should not discuss this because you and this man, Ivan Vrdoljak, in 2017, stole democracy from the Croatian people and made unmarked political advances with the man you're dealing with today. I am sorry there is no representative Marijana Petir, a representative who asked questions here about 2003 and about the Sisak refinery, and who in Racan's government is now a spokeswoman, spokeswoman for the Ministry of Environmental Protection and members of the Environmental Protection Committee. And not only that, she mentioned former mayor Lovric Merzel with whom she was in the coalition and was her mayor. That's interesting, and now she's gone. We all know that HDZ very skillfully manipulates when it is necessary to justify its own failures and failures. Everyone else has been guilty since the century 7th and here. It is thus mentioned that INE is sold by Racan's government as a reference point to hand over INE into the hands of Hungarians, although the transaction is still at the time, and now the evaluations are more than a good business move, in which for 25% plus 1 share, 505 million dollars. What did you do with INA after that? How did HDZ manage the strategic Croatian company until today, including the responsibility of Minister Ćorić? The former Prime Minister and HDZ, for receiving bribes in the INA case, was sentenced to jail time, meanwhile, the Constitutional Court has annulled the sentence, today. Former HDZ President Tomislav Karamarko had to resign because of private implications in the case of INA-MOL arbitration. From the allegations of a bad business move by Racan's government during which the management and supervisory board of INE had five members each, and the Hungarian side of 2 we came to the brilliant HDZ training of the strategic company where the INA was only a shadow today in 2003 and a mere branch of Hungarian energy interests. And that's where we come to Minister Coric. The Energy Act, paragraph 4, paragraph 4 of Article 4(3), states that in order to protect the interest and security of infrastructure for the supply of RH energy, infrastructure facilities in which oil processing is carried out and others declare facilities of interest to the Republic of Croatia, and the owner of that infrastructure must modernise, invest in it, etc. And what did you do? Shut down the Sisak refinery, shut down the river. Based on what, which regulations did Minister Coric sign a memorandum between JANAF and INE? Why in English? Why did he sign it on behalf of JANAF, not Kovacevic? Is that what you agreed with Kovacevic? What happened to the Christmas present in 2016 when you held the press conference, the prime minister called and said that Croatia is going to buy INE? Where's that Christmas present? They've been waiting for people for four years. What about the promise that the refinery in Sisak won't close? That's what you said. Meanwhile, 250 workers were fired, a total of 600 this year. What about the Rijeka refinery? If anyone from the INE administration you named the basis of a 15-minute interview as you said yourself, there are records of the media, for Croatian interests. Do any of these INE board members play for Croatian interests? Who will be responsible for obstructing the modernisation of the Rijeka refinery? Who from INE, name and last name? Name and last name. I'll be there to say something about Plinacro. You've made Plinacro very much in charge. You've cut tariffs, we're talking about the LNG project. Transportation has fallen, even with the activation of LNG terminal Plinarro will not have enough income to service its debts. They invested very much in the compressor station about 500 million kuna for the Krk Land Merger. They will not be able to serve their obligations and we will testify again to such or such privatisation.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17897	Thank you very much. We have one replica, the esteemed Glamuzine.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17898	My colleague Ahmetovic, if Vrdoljak, whose former government has bought power over everything, can you please explain to me why you do not correct his mistakes during the whole term?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17899	Thank you, well-respected MPs...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17900	Your Honor, can I give you my word or do you hold a session? There's an esteemed representative, Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17901	Excuse me. Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, I apologize for not hearing you give me your word, because you did not give it to me, and I now thank you for giving it to me and dear colleagues of Glamuzin I will not at all be concerned with why, why, why they did not, which they did not, Croatian citizens must know that, that the HDZ representatives led with Andrej Plenkovic played their trust in 2017 when, because of the knowledge of what interests they received in their company Ivan Vrdoljak, who then responded to them because he was a superhero chip in that government, the assembly, but today they no longer need it. I'm just surprised why the game is still playing with that HNS now, so I guess they're going to get something from this one too.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17902	The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Mira Bulja.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17903	Thank you very much. Our minister as an unusual sister-in-law, nicely smooth, every hair in his place, the new, newest, tie the same one of the more modern I've seen and come here after Andrej Plenkovic and then he goes to insult women. It's the principle of pride of pro-European politics, I'm all in fact, he's arrogant about women and it amazes me, but it's a minor problem. I would start here right now with what you said if I hadn't read this document, again I'll repeat all three items, Krš-Padene you signed when you entered the coalition with HNS unaccounted for, as Minister Dobrović was no longer yours, no matter what the impact study had on the ecological network, which was sued by the environmental and nature agency, i.e. against you, you willingly gave 2 billion kuna to the harm of the citizens of others without complete documentation. And you can't deny it, it's clear as day to everyone, folks. It's clear as day. Clear as day. I'm sorry the Prime Minister didn't defend you anymore, he didn't really say one word about you, I'm sorry here I'm really sorry. As far as the second point is concerned, we are speaking from the Director of the Krk National Park, that just the same conditions, I agree, on equal terms, that the defender then has the right to be. realizes that it is the right to be the one in the contest to be the one who will be the choice for the job, but the minister did the opposite. From the existing director, Mrs. Zmijanović had better conditions and professional conditions, but was the only criterion, you know the criteria, called Dujic Ministers I have you, the head of the county HDZ we have here Slavica, here you have a conversation with her and the basis of talks with the minister is that, these are the better conditions. A conversation with the minister that, yes, I wish you'd spoken further two metres to the left, two meters to the right, and before the election, say no to the triba mask, we can go to the election, so you're now a parliamentary representative. All right, and that's acceptable and understandable, but as far as Minister Coric is concerned, the fact that he's here and that's what was on the Defence Committee was for veterans to break the Defense Act. Most of the defenders who were there, especially those who were outside members of the defenders, were up to one for breaking the Law on Croatian defenders in the case of appointments in Krka National Park. As far as I'm concerned, if I didn't repeat myself again, but for a short time, I would say that in Split-Dalmatia County there's a huge problem, there's a vervain dump closed, you sent it to Sinj, now you've closed it down and you announce closures if something doesn't reach. I don't know, 30 million was a master center, nothing was done. So you're jeopardizing the environment with your decisions. You and the State Inspectorate are endangering the environment. Well, those were the scenes down there, you were sending municipal waste from Vrgorec 120 kilometers, mixed in in Sinj, on the highway. From the same sanitary conditions of the dump to the other. Why? Is absolutely that the wrong management of the waste, absolutely wrong. And don't hold it to the environment at all. I am very interested in now numerous miners and enlargements in the spatial plans of the Split-Dalmatia County will you accept them? At the same time as you announce the Nature Park Dinara, there you gave research fields for hydrocarbons i.e. for oil exploration. At the same time, you as the Minister of Environmental Protection are helping to collapse the flat bridge, an old Croatian bridge from 2000 from this 15th century. As you will make older than that older than the Croatian fortunes near the Church of St. Rescue. Absolutely contradictory decisions. And as for the very declaration of the exclusive economic belt, that's where you'd try to put yourself, not if the Italians were laughing at you on a proposal to declare an exclusive economic belt. 24,000 square miles of Adriatic you don't have the strength to protect. Why? Is that an economic resource, please explain, give me one reason why? Can anyone here explain why you don't want to, and the Italians will declare an exclusive economic belt and that resource they're using for us. I once again, Minister Coric, have not answered any questions, and you've really made all the decisions I seem to have made at the Kovacevic Club. in Slovenia 9. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17904	We have two replicas, it's the first one, whose first one was it? Dear Representative Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17905	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here's Honorable Parliamentary Representative Bulj, two short questions for you. Do you know what is the most visited national park in the Republic of Croatia and do you know how much revenue has been increased in the last 3 years of Krka National Park?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17906	Dear Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17907	When you talk about it, I was the happiest when I saw Knin from Dinara and Krka National Park is one of the most beautiful, Krka river along the Cetina and our Dalmatian Zagora and we try to protect it, you know that this minister did nothing to do that behind every lagoon rain at the TVIK factory in Knin pours out into the river Krka lukewart, waste, fuel, I even brought it to the assembly and absolutely doesn't care. And do you know that there is the highest profit in Sibenik-Knin County that will now be given essentially a concession on ticket payments, to private persons. You know that rules and regulations change, you know that? That someone's gonna keep trying to keep you having party money and that you can, you have to finance the campaign. First of all, the Krka National Park is unprotected from the lagoons in Knin and I call on another minister and in the past term I am only emphasising and not only him but the Krka National Park and Plitvice National Park are also in a derutical state because of the sewerage that goes into...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17908	Thank you very much. The next replica is the respected representative Kujundzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17909	Thank you, Chairman. Here's what I'm saying to the minister. I'm calling in today for the first time. This one's coming from Dalmatia and I, namely the waste problem down there. Surely we can't go to the Minister's office and say he's guilty because someone doesn't pick up the junk. We can also not say that he is guilty of the habits of people as they rule, both in our Dalmatia and throughout Croatia. However, what he may have already been able to make certain moves is the dump itself and, in fact, a whole plan of waste. In fact, I think it's about 2014, '15. Croatia has received the obligation to introduce the containers for selected waste that are financed seems to me by the 80% fund, 20% of the units of local administration and self-government, but I will end up having a paradox. We don't have any on one side... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17910	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed Bull. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17911	Thank you very much. Most of all, this debate by my colleague Kujundzic will not cause her to be a changed minister, the minister will remain only strange to me, and I was aware of what Prime Minister Plenkovic did not defend him, it is seen that Pilate's hands are being washed again, he has been turning the story to the coalition, at the Istanbul Convention, it is simply a period of time, meaning that Minister Coric is certainly at one point when the prime minister judges and assesses to be his burden, he will go away and I am sorry for him and I would have defended him to ask him to ask me because he simply found himself as, really as I know the orphans have come here, softly smooth, arranged, only that. He did not give a single defence, nor did he give a single defence here with such boastful statements by Prime Minister Plenkovic so that waste management in our county is an indicator of the unhappiness, negligence, but it will soon escalate mainly in the Split-Dalmatia County and Dalmatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17912	The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17913	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ministers, colleagues and colleagues, at first I must only look back at an unrealized event when I called the same thing after this speaker HDZ thieves, and then I got a warning because I was insulting, and only a few days after that came the inadequacy, but still the verdict and the second time judgment of the entire party I dared to call it that. I don't know if the leadership of the assembly or the vice president who then chaired the session will, and even now the chairman, after the verdict becomes a power of power, may withdraw that warning. We'll see about that. Now, when we talk about the minister, when we talk about HDZ, etc., a colleague here mentioned amnesia. So I don't know if there's anyone who's doctored amnesia without being HDZ. Because amnesia is something that we see very often as an ever-present appearance on the right side of the assembly. So the amnesia was wrapped up and some names from the government that went away won't believe it, which is why, because of suspicion of corruption. He says the mother of knowledge is a repeat, so I'll repeat them just to remember those who may have forgotten. Pavo Barisic, Martina Dalic, Milan Kujundzic, Goran Maric, Nada Murganic, Gabriela Žalac, Tomislav Tolusic, Lovro Kustic. Now the English would tell you, is it ringing for you, whether those names are ringing for you, who these people were and why they left the government. I counted eight. The current government numbers 18 ministers and ministers, so if we apply this number to today's government, it's more than half of the government's members. Half the members of the government who left, and a colleague spoke about it a few days ago or a certain number of days after this assembly, so in this house they discussed exactly their impeachment. Why and how can such an honest party, the image of honesty as the HDZ has lost so many ministers along the way? Why he forgot his former president and many others who were also convicted before the courts of the Republic of Croatia, I will only mention Ivo Sanader. It's interesting that he's forgotten, he doesn't even remember, nobody knew him, nobody was talking to him, I guess. The same ones who took pictures with him. So I share the concerns of colleagues who spoke before me about it, first of all those human towards the minister not getting into it now whether there's a criminal responsibility, we're actually not here to judge it, but ministers when you're the minister then all of you need you then, will tomorrow need you that's a big question. Everyone will forget you because there's amnesia is something foreign to HDZ, I guess, as well as corruption. But aside from that, I would refer here to a problem from the minister's portfolio and which is actually a minister's decision, the basis of the minister's decision is today if I'm not mistaken, which is the disposal of the garbage from Dubrovnik in Ploca. The citizens were extremely opposed, it was a big, big media attention he got the problem and the minister himself went to talk about it personally, to explain to his fellow citizens because it came from Ploč why the trash from Dubrovnik-Neretva County was left right there. Why is that decision? It was brought by the minister with discretion. I'd like to hear the answer. There are a whole series of other decisions that are at least questionable. And I say and repeat, we can't talk here or are here because we're talking about criminal or some other responsibility, criminal, but political first of all, and when you're in the executive power, you make decisions like the Minister did and you say, but then you answer for them, too. First of all, political, then in every other way. When we talked about the Krsh-Paden case, we also talked first of all about political responsibility for me, since I also supported that interpretation, political responsibility is unsuspecting. It is interesting that the prime minister defended only in words that he is a good man and that he enjoys his support. Not getting into it, of course, because I don't know the minister enough to judge it in such a way that the prime minister assumes political responsibility on himself and cannot come out of this uncircumcised.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17914	We have a few replicas. He is the first respected representative of Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17915	Thank you very much. Comrade Hajdukovic, when you are already challenging this something quite brave lately when you talk about the HDZ verdict, do you remember the judgment of the High Court of Commerce, which he executed you as a party to 10 million kuna to hide the costs you had as those who supported Milan Bandic in 2009 for mayor, so it lasted somewhere hidden and appeared after a few years and a hop 2018 on top, 10 million kuna, the verdict. What were you doing? Why were you hiding the account? Was that your Fimi Media that wasn't supposed to be talked about or we found out. That doesn't bother you, 10 million kunas, and ministers Holly, Komadinina, Ostojic, Linic, you cast him out with one vote more than those who were to stay. Then the second Ostojić, and Jovanovic, all of them, went away because they were good, without affairs. So what were you doing? Have you forgotten that or is it none of your business? What's allowed to ox is not cabbage.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17916	Thank you very much. The answer of the respected representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17917	Thank you very much, colleague Boris, I enjoy your replicas, namely this is not about hiding the costs, but about challenging the costs. You've heard of it, isn't it? Yes, and that's why you have court proceedings, and the court has ruled with me, and I respect the court's decisions. It's not like it's nothing we're gonna pay for that money of course, and whether HDZ will pay for everything that's alienated, everything we've seen through the Fimi Media, everything we've seen through other affairs. Will he pay? I don't know. As far as I can remember, as far as I remember, neither my colleague Komadini, nor my colleague Ostojić, nor I know who you've listed any more has ever been proven. [[No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ……]] They never had a trial before the court and no verdict was reached, and my party was particularly not convicted of corruption by colleagues, corruption. No, it's corruption. It's corruption. That's a small difference.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17918	The next replica is the respected representative Kuzmanic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17919	A colleague of Hajduković, you have noticed well, but it is obvious that corruption in some cultural heritage organizations is nurtured one of those cultural heritage, so that I do not now count, they find you in the port of a reserve of a bank or so dig into your land... Also one bank reserve or in your basement is stuffed whole zoo or you have a small Louvre down or you grow 2-3 villas on your plot, cottages. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, honestly, if we could just stop to list these affairs that have been going on in the last few years, we'd probably have to explain the replica here for 10 minutes. Otherwise, what Mr. Boric said is one thing, I don't know, I wouldn't want to say a word right now if I didn't insult him, so if I had the chairman again to give me a heads-up, I'd only hold on to the fact that corruption is obviously part of the cultural heritage in some organizations, and I was right, that Mr. Djoric had fallen into bad society.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17920	Dear Representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17921	Yeah, now I could say something about... But I'll probably insult this one, too. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Good society in some organizations simply can't be found because of deep, deeply rooted corruption, as we can see from day to day. And now I can list behind the pay phone, I could probably list all the affairs and all the people, the high officials who have been convicted, and it won't stop, it won't stop, I'm afraid it'll continue, but as long as it continues and while some organisations are doing so, I'm afraid it won't be good for anyone in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17922	The next replica of the esteemed representative of Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17923	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow, you spoke only of HDZ corruption for three and a half minutes. Well, I think that's what you've been saying for the past four years, and it doesn't work for you. Okay, that's on the trail of what your colleague Ahmetovic said that we always say that we won the elections. But we got the support of the people, not you. You're saying we're bad company, and you personally have bad company. Your partner personally stands out. Think about your company, not our society. You take care of your house, and we get the support of the people, we win the elections, not you, and now 2.5-3 months ago, and you are that, it doesn't exist for you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17924	We've got a breach of the Rules of Procedure. What's the damage to the Rules of Procedure? Dear representative of the Voice.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17925	In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure That if someone is a victim of violence is not something that we need to further victimise, categorize and label them here. It's certainly not something that determines any man, and I would pray that such a speech is no longer used here.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17926	Look, when you pull the devil by the tail then the devil comes out, unfortunately that's the way it is. ... Uh, well, of course it's not the same because you think one side can afford something and the other one can't. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] I appeal to one side and the other and to all sides to stick to our dignity, but you can't, you can't think that you can insult others, insult others, throw others, accuse others, and they won't pay you back. They will, maybe even double, and that's bad, that's not good. We're not, we're not here for that, we're here because, uh, the citizens here sent us to try to do the best for them, not to shoot each other. I appeal again to everyone, literally to everyone, to the left, to the right, to the middle, to the top, to the bottom, to anything, to lower the tone a little bit, and to keep everyone to dignity. ... Let's not throw it out of the bench. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] What's been hurt in my colleague's office now?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17927	Now you've gone one more step further and you've hurt an officer. 238, because you evened this one out in some way, the victim and the aggressor. The act of violence is against another man, over the Croatian budget, over the law and when you call someone here for such violence against the law then you work in the interest of the Republic of Croatia and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure which we have sworn to both the law and the constitution. And when you label someone as a victim of violence, then it's against what we've sworn because then we don't protect human rights or private rights of a person, please respect that.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17928	First, you've exceeded your time, so you've already earned a warning, and second, I'm telling you again, please don't abuse the institution's breach of the Rules of Procedure, please. Here's a colleague of Hajdukovic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17929	Thank you, Vice President. Well, obviously, being allowed by Jupiter isn't an ox, is he? So, yeah, but good. I was talking about corruption for three and a half minutes, so I just said I could talk about corruption all night, not three and a half minutes, three and a half minutes is very demanding when we talk about corruption in HDZ to sum it up, believe me. So on that side, I was really trying really hard to be as summed up and as accurate as possible, and thank you for, for taking care of my personal things, it's very warm to hear it from someone who's my political rival.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17930	Next individual debates by the respected representative, Ruzica Vukovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17931	Dear Vice President HS, ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs. Although Minister Coric acted within the legislative and institutional frameworks that were largely defined before his mandate, the question arises whether and how did the oil gas sector improve and what results did he ultimately get? It should be borne in mind that the picture of the oil gas sector during the term of office of Minister Ćorić reflects the results of INA d.d. to the greatest extent. Whereas more than 90% of the total INA production of hydrocarbons comes from the Republic of Croatia so that these two issues cannot be looked separately. If we look at key natural indicators, i.e. The production of oil and gas in Croatia, which is equal to the INA production, we are witnessing a marked decline, so from 2017 to 2020 we are talking about the time of Minister Ćorić's mandate, so from 35.2 thousand barrels of hydrocarbon equivalents per day to today about 26.5 thousand barrels per day. The question arises what was actively taken to avoid this. Where's plan B for INU? On the other hand, at the administrative level, as far as the management of this sector is concerned, roses are booming. This is how the Agency for Hydrocarbons publishes, explores and exploits a number of benefits, opens new jobs and enables the sustainable development of domestic industry, we are teamed up as an oil power, noting that since the establishment of the Hydrocarbon Agency over a period of nearly 7 years, no barrel of oil has taken place as a result of their efforts, nor will that happen soon. In this context, Mr. Coric's crime is a failure to respond to the sector's problems and the INE's in the end, insistence on excessive administration where the most benefit comes from the agency and the very unfavourable dynamics of the development of oil gas projects. If an appropriate transition towards low-carbon energy policy based on renewable sources is to be implemented, an optimal plan and dynamics for the oil gas sector should be developed and the use of few remaining reserves mainly in the Pannonian swimming pool. A plan that will not be based on unrealized remaining reserves and fairy-tale promises of billions of earnings for the state hydrocarbon budget. In addition, like the segments of renewable sources, the Ministry and the Agency for Hydrocarbons promote stories about the employment of domestic industry and services while in reality such industry, along with the INO, is failing. INE's daughters are on their knees today, and this has been appointed by the state and its representatives in the management of INE and will hardly be able to provide their services to oil companies, new concessionaries for research and production. So what's the rest of the industry? So scientific institutions that will be profited by the new oil industry as our agency claims. The latter also shows a link between the situation in the entire sector and the situation in the INI. Minister Ćoric as one of the responsible persons in relation to the non-small ownership stake of the state in INI there sets up a new administration for which we have never seen before, and we will hardly see how it corresponds to the very serious problems of INE in the segment of research and production. Does anyone really think that INA will improve its catastrophic position with the production and reserves of hydrocarbons that make up the company's capital value by researching Dinarid? The research Mr. Coric was administratively advocated, where he was actively engaged and fiction which he finally managed to isolate in the INI. So, the real Dinardid research is gone, and neither will it. The real aim is to pay the research fee from which approximately 10 million kunas will be paid for an investigation period of 3 years plus 2 years, with a course of silenced consent to Hungarian interests. According to the same form, the state agreed to close the refinery in Sisak, dispatching domestic oil to Hungary, delaying the restoration of the refinery in Rijeka, non-investment in investigative concessions abroad, so the last significant concession at which INA was the operator is Syria, which was signed in 1998. In return, the state is satisfied with the Hungarian lease of part of the capacity of the non-profit LNG through a concession from the former Naftaplin building ministry in Šubic and similar crumbs compared to what it gives. It is a modus operand of Minister Coric rather than using INA members and professional services to devise and implement a strategy for returning INA to firm legs with or without Hungarians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17932	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be the respected representative of Davor Dretar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17933	Dear Mr. Chairman, the Honorable Mr. So far Minister, colleagues and colleagues, I will turn around and talk about it so let's say one of the consequences of this whole story that Mr. Prime Minister mentioned our three dots are not dots, these are points, these are rocks, but the third is talking about a famous club in Slovenia. When that affair started, they started leaking data, who was there, what they were doing there, exactly what it was like, and why there's a money counter, I don't care. I will talk about the personal situation that one morning on a very read portal in Croatia, the text appears about the following content, can you imagine how much fun it was for the people in the club in Slovenia when they were entertained by a comedian and entertainer Davor Dretar Drele as the fingers of the greasy burgers arranged for him to enter the meeting because, after several visits to the club in Slovenska 9 Davor Dretar became a parliamentary representative. Forgive me for laughing at what I'm talking about right now is also the subject of a lawsuit, of course, which the court is obviously going to say in time, but once again I've never been to a club in Slovenia 9 which is neither a shame nor a privilege, but I just want to talk about the fact that the ruling on the moment the story started, started to loosen up the story and it's clear to everyone that it's not very convenient that some of the people in the highest positions in Croatia are caught in some suspicious space and the public rightly assumes in the worst possible way that they were doing there. The announcement that is the subject of the current lawsuit came out on the portal 24 hours on Saturday at 6 a.m. and 58 a.m. I've spent my life as a professional in a few newsrooms, and I know very well that there's no one in the newsroom on Saturday at 6:00 and 58 minutes in the newsroom, not even in the newsrooms. Internet or copy paste portal. It's obviously about an orderly announcement that someone agreed on a day, night, or no matter how many hours before the fact that they were xy in the club, some say the current minister was there. So, what was I supposed to do? To drown as many people as possible and to push them into the reality of the club in Slovenia to say, well, dear God, there were all, orange, green, blue, yellow, red, left, right, every one and every one of these. But the fact is, I'm out there unfortunately or fortunately, I'd say, I've never been. I even got the information that I was supposed to be there once, but the people sitting there said don't call him, please don't call him, he's a tough guy. My dear Kerberus, you'll have plenty of time to speak, slowly. But that's all I wanted to talk to you about. I believe that in today's debate on voting or not voting confidence, the current minister has been told enough about the professional, emotional and other words. I'll just tell you that in all that story there are some people who have been defeated or humiliated and at a personal level and that's not right. And I appeal to this moment because I know many of you, there were 76 of you here today, many of you know, business, we've met everywhere, and I can't believe that when the time comes to vote on the Minister's trust, you're really not going to go home this evening and really think about everything that we've talked about here today. I don't know what it's called, a dictatorship, an inner consciousness, a higher ego, I'm not sure, there's a few philosophical things that could explain it, think about it, and realize that there might be a man's trust here right now, but that in principle there's talk about trust in one system and one way of managing and one future of the country we live in. Thank you very much, everyone who listened to me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17934	Thank you. The next individual debate will be respected representatives of Vesna Vucilovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17935	I would like to thank the chairman, dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Here we are again, the same theme, Minister Coric. Ten days ago, we discussed the interpretation of Krsh-Padena, in some ways this debate continues today. I'll stick to the facts as I always try to do, sometimes I do it more sometimes less, but I'm always trying to make an argument and actually look back at every topic that we're discussing. Then 10 days ago, we heard from the minister himself that he is not an environmental expert, that he is neither an expert nor an expert in nature protection because they are similar, but they are not the same thing. And it's no sin, and I don't think it's a problem to do a good job. There are in each of our departments of professional service, people who are professional, qualified for these areas, and then what's the problem? The problem is that the minister still doesn't listen to these people when they make decisions, when they sign documents, and then those decisions are a little controversial and controversial when it comes to protecting nature and protecting the environment. They are harmful and not only to protest the public but we are getting pucks from the EU. Unfortunately, the disputed solution to Krsh-Paden is not an exception. It is not some isolated case, it is repeated, and once you make a mistake, it can be a real failure, it happens to everyone, but when you repeat the error, it becomes a pattern and a rule of action. According to Minister Coric, as Minister of the Ministry of Environment and Energy, a solution has also been made for the Vratarusa II wind power plant, too, is not necessary to carry out an environmental impact assessment process and an assessment of acceptability for the ecological network. In July of this year, the High Administrative Court annulled the Ministry of Environment and Energy's decision that the 24 MW wind power plant, planned near the town of Senj, did not need to carry out an environmental impact assessment procedure and that it did not need to carry out a major assessment of acceptability for the ecological network. Gatekeeper II is planning to build next to Senj, it could have a very devastating impact on white-headed soups and certainly eagles, which are strictly protected bird predators, very rare predators. Unfortunately, Minister Ćorić doesn't really care and turns out he's not too interested in nature protection, as well as endangered species. It is contrary to the directive on the conservation of wild birds and habitats. I remind you that the same was true in Krš-Padena and there was also said that the solution that should not be done is a new environmental impact assessment and a major assessment of the acceptability for the ecological network, although the projects and parameters of the Krš-Padjane project have been significantly changed, which enabled the investor to have the entire investment significantly lower. On 14 May, the European Commission announced a decision requiring Croatia to improve its application of the Habitats Directive, as regards the assessment of the impact of Vertroelectric projects on the EU Natura 2000 ecological network areas, as the Birds Directive and the Habitats Directive are implemented through Natura 2000. Therefore, according to the Habitats Directive, projects which could have a significant impact on the areas of the ecological network, either individually or in combination with other plans or projects, may only be approved after it has been found not to have a negative impact on this area. In May, the European Commission reported that Croatia has initiated proceedings for inadequate implementation of environmental impact assessments in wind power projects just like the Krš-Pađenje and Vratarusa II project, of course this could all result in proceedings against the Republic of Croatia before the European Court of Justice and payment. Big fines. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17936	We have the next debate, and it will be the respected representatives of Sabine Vosovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17937	Thank you, Mr. Vice President HS, dear ministers, respected colleagues and colleagues. I must admit that this is one of the most unusual discussions when we talk about proposals to raise a trust issue to any of the ministers, which in the previous 4-5. HS wasn't missing. Why? Because on behalf of the defense, let's call it that, the prime minister as the key person who chooses ministers and can't actually deprive himself of responsibility because all these ministers and those 15 that have left the government in the previous 4 years. of which 10 even in, due to serious doubts about corruption were his personal choice. Today, however, we have seen that during this defense, not one, he says, four weak spots, so on. The indictments, which should be voted on, have not given Minister Coric any counterargument, no response. Asked why Mr. Tomislav Ćorić made a solution in which one company exempts from the obligation to make an impact assessment on the ecological network despite Croatian Environment and Nature Agency's remarks and a resolutional nature protection agency at the Ministry of Environment and Energy, the prime minister answers Minister Ćoric is a good man, and we are not asking whether he is a good man or he is not a good man. We say that he is a bad minister and that we believe, we have serious doubts that he is working against the interest of the Republic of Croatia. We don't get an answer, we don't get silence, he's just a good man and he enjoys my trust. The second question is whether because of the annulment of the solution made by the predecessor of Minister Ćorić was made possible by one investor or one company by the end of 2017. meet reduced conditions and retain the status of a privileged electricity producer, resulting in an MW of EUR 94 for current EUR 43, or purchasers paying 118% more expensive electricity in the next 14 years, totalling 1.9 billion, the prime minister here has exposures to the red-black coalition. Why? Because 40 MPs and MPs signed this request on which they have full right. He's talking about the red-and-black coalition that brought down Kolinda Grabar Kitarovic, and now I guess it's tearing down his government. Well, only the truth works, Colindu Grabar Kitarovic didn't have to destroy anyone, she collapsed for 5 years. alone and very successfully at the shame of many Croatian citizens, and this is the demolition, the destruction was witnessed by both citizens and leaders and countries outside the borders of the Republic of Croatia, and this accusation of the red-black coalition to bring down this government is the same as that of Prime Minister Plenkovic's constant mantra that no one will stick to his government's corruption label, so we always have to tell him, look, but we didn't park, you know, that Mercedes lady. A regret in, this in her yard, you know, we didn't fill that incomplete property card of yours, Minister Kustević, you know, it's not us who produce affairs in your government, it's your ministers. The only one who has a beautiful label of corruption for your government is your ministers, and under your patronage because there you are always defending them in the same way, they are good people and have my trust until the public pressure hits close enough to his door and potentially damages his carefully guarded and bred reputation of a nice guy from Brussels who unfortunately accepted Croatian HDZ manners where the principle is the same, and everything else is shades. To the third question whether something might become strange to him or not in the competition for appointments for NP Director Nele Slavica he says, so watch the opposition, this SDP, so they didn't have the courage to sign the Istanbul Convention, I signed it or ratified it, and I got a round of applause for it. Yes, we have signed, you have ratified and it would be hypocritical that the SDP at that time did not support the government of the Republic of Croatia in an effort to protect women who are victims of violence and women victims of violence in, in the family. We didn't have the impudence but the financial means to take over the financial commitments that the Istanbul Convention has brought behind us, and God forbid we ever have the courage to have one of our ministers say, which is supposed to protect between the other and the woman the victim of violence, to say to the violence is elicitant that is happening, so it's married to you. That's the kind of courage we don't want to have, we'll never get a chance to have this one. I'm afraid this story will end as many before it. Your 7 predecessors, those who pat you on the shoulders today, will be the first to turn their backs on you tomorrow. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17938	We have several replicas, the first respected representative of Jelkovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17939	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues, you said 4 points of the indictment, I would correct you because in fact it is 3, this 4th that you refer only to the finding that Mr Tomislav Ćorić was appointed minister, and the 3 which you mention is not proven, at least in this manual that he worked contrary to the interest of the Republic of Croatia because here as you can see and as you have heard and we have proved in the interpretation the solution signed by the Minister about Krš-Pared confirmed both in the administrative court and in the high administrative court, which means that it was not what he brought against the interest of the Republic, but I think that in fact protected the interest of the Republic of Croatia in order not to threaten us with lawsuits and high compensation from investors. As for the second point, which is the appointment of Nela Slavica as director, it has also been proven that he respected the ruling of the administrative court. And he did exactly what he did. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17940	Dear representative of the Voice.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17941	Well, that's where you're right that I mentioned the 3, the 4th, I didn't mention it, it wasn't taxed here, it wasn't listed here. Do they work when we talk about energy policy, first of all about the case we had tonight and today much to hear during the day, which is INA and MOL, Minister Ćoric for the interests of Croatia or more for the interests of Hungary? I didn't mention that, exactly. Under what conditions has the refinery Sisak been shut down and under what conditions do we export Croatian oil to, in Hungary? I'm sorry I didn't mention that. And when we talk about the charges, the charges, etc., I'll just remind you that here in this HS once in history, immunity has been removed from one representative for verbal so-called. When Mr. Jovanovic called HDZ a criminal organization, difficult words, we'll agree, difficult. But when we see that 10. After some court epilogues confirm some things said in the assembly, then it doesn't make us happy but sad. I wish we were wrong about these dots of the so-called. The charges.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17942	The next is the replica of the respected representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17943	Thank you very much. My colleague Glasovac, you know when Ivica went on a tram, traveled and the controller came in to the tram and asked for a map, came to Ivica, says the map please, says Ivica apple, the controller got a little confused and said what kind of apple? He says, "What card?" That's how the Prime Minister defends you. It seems to me that in the road, and the Prime Minister in the woods because, as you yourself said, the only finding we've heard in the minister's defense is that he's a good man. It may be, I say, I don't want to get into such personal qualifications at all, but it can't be the only argument given to you by the Prime Minister when he defends the minister in his government, the minister for whom he likes to be nice. So, in my opinion, it's disrespect for parliament, disrespect for our MPs, for those 40 who signed that impelation, and at the end of the mockery... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17944	Representative Voter's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17945	You know what, when a colleague Hajdukovic thinks a little bit better, he might as well say less, and then he doesn't have to pour his ashes here because in some cases he was very keenly defending some ministers when we questioned Minister Kujundzic's responsibility, when we also insisted on the recall of Minister Žalac, Minister Tolusic, Mr Goran Maric, however, was ahead of him, so he resigned himself, so Mrs. Goran Maric. Dalic, then Mr. Kuštević, then he defended them, some with a bigger one, some with a smaller grill, but until the last one, but he did not guard them, he kept his picture in the media and his perception in the media. If it became endangered and instigated, then it would react by impulse to a certain action of pressure, pressure from the public, not self-initiative. But I repeat, these are all people chosen by one man, and this is Andrej Plenkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17946	The next replica of the esteemed representative of Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17947	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague, you said the minister was signed in 2017. did damage and enabled subsidized energy. You think the minister didn't sign it, did the investor have the right to build on your decision of 2013 the same thing and would then the state be damaged and you don't respect this decision and the administrative court and the high court?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17948	Dear MPs, the Voter.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17949	Mr. Sanader, I'm not simply going to answer your line until you apologize to your colleague, Hajdukovic, whom you have, because of the fact that the victim of violence here is somewhat lynched in HS.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17950	The esteemed representative of Glamuzina has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17951	My colleague Glasovac, in your presentation when you listed who is all the beautiful label of corruption to this party, you skipped the number of Croatian courts, I don't think it's negligible, more than once Croatian courts have glued their label to corruption.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17952	Dear representative of the Voice.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17953	But Croatian courts, do you think that's Mr. Plenkovic's argument, or is that an easy circumstance? That no, this one they gave the material unfortunately and it's not something to be liquefied about, actually because it's a sad episode in the history of a large Croatian party, I believe that many of its members and sympathisers feel no shame but actually regrets it. But it's not just a story about these big Croatian parties, it's an episode that has marked and one part of Croatian history, where someone from the world, from Europe looks at us and says, so look at these are people where the court has proved that instead of working for their people, they have stolen these same people to put their money in some partial, private, party, narrow party, customerist pockets. It's a sad story, it doesn't happen again, and it doesn't need to be exemplified, the sooner it's forgotten, but something's learned from it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17954	The next individual debate will be respected representatives of Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17955	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues. So as I come from Sibenik-Knin County, I want to refer to the point of the 3rd proposal concerning the appointment of the director of the public institution NP Krka. In fact, I think we should all put the national park and the way and the quality of running that park first, since she's the director of Mrs. McNally's. Nela Slavica. It was named 7 February 2019. and in the first year of the term of office, almost 30 million more revenue was made than in the previous year, which is the best financial results ever in the history of the park. The number of tickets sold has increased, while withdrawing significantly more funding from European funds. In 2020, the Council adopted Decision (CFSP) 2015/35 on the conclusion of the Agreement between the European Union and the European Union and the Swiss Confederation on the Swiss Confederation's association with the European Economic Community, the European Union and the Swiss Confederation, the Swiss Confederation, the Swiss Confederation and the Swiss Confederation, the Swiss Confederation and the Swiss Confederation on the Swiss Confederation's association with the Swiss Confederation, the Swiss Confederation, the Swiss Confederation, the Swiss Confederation, the Swiss Confederation, the Swiss Confederation, the Swiss Confederation, the Swiss Confederation, the Swiss Confederation, the Swiss Confederation and the Swiss Confederation. We know what the tourist season was, NP Krka becomes the most visited park in the tourist season, even more visited than ever the most numerous NP Plitvice Lakes and which has a tradition of 70, and this only 35. In fact, it is incorrect that the administrative court, that the Ministry of Environment and Energy did not respect the ruling of the Administrative Court in Split, because the ruling only returned the decision to the re-determination procedure and for the reason that the conduct of the test must be contained in the publicly published text of the relevant and public tender as stated. However, since all of this puts Minister Coric on the burden, it should be said that the Ministry of Environment could not affect the content of the public tender because it does not even call the competition. When it comes to party membership, too, it would always be said that Nela Slavica is a member of the HDZ, of the 5 candidates, the four candidates are all, including Mrs. Ljiljana Zmijanovic, members of HDZ and Ljiljana Zmijanovic, was our member at the time, then joined the MOST, now the Homeland Movement, etc., but there would be no confusion that that is why Ljiljana Zmijanovic was not, is not preferred as the selected candidate. Also 5th candidate, the current director of the national park is a member of the SDP. It should be said that there were no violations of the Law on Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families, nor the right to benefit from employment on equal terms because, as can be seen from the report on the public competition carried out that Nela Slavica received the highest number of points 10, the third rank was Mrs. Ljiljana Zmijanovic, with the second ranked two candidates, which means that she had a total of three candidates, had more points than the lady had. Snakes. Nela Slavica is a candidate who owns more than 15 years. She is a specialist in environmental protection and has been called head of development and implementation of EU-funded projects. In the interview she showed a clear further vision, she was very familiar with park projects, she had a positive attitude towards the current director, according to the report and as can be seen her results show her abilities. There is also a lot of appeal to the Law on Defences and the Labour Act. However, it should be said that this is not about classical employment under the Labour Act but rather about the election for the mandated management duties of interest to the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, priority is prescribed in employment only on the posts of officials and deputies employed on the basis of a public tender, while the duties and mandates of a management nature are not prescribed as a category which guarantees an advantage for, in employment. A colleague of the coat of arms told me that all the men who came with them had gone with them. I would say an example of exactly the national park where the SDP was changing statutes and labour agreements to provide directors with jobs after the term of office was terminated within the institution. Thus Mr. Tonci Restovic, president of the Sibenik SDP, provided Mr. Krešimir Sakic with a prominent SDP position, and today, of course, works in the national park. When we talked about employment Okay, thank you. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17956	We have several replicas, so there will be opportunities in them to say. The first is the respected representative Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17957	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues, when we read these points of the indictment, we are going to say this, or a proposal to initiate the minister's trust, then the first point came from the fact that this assembly majority has re-purposed or changed to the government's proposal only to the ministry and Mr. Coric has become Minister instead of Minister of Environment and Energy Minister of Economy and Sustainable Development, and this is being placed on the burden of the Minister. For what reason? The fact that we are the majority who voted in confidence is precisely because this minister has the competence to act in different responsibilities in the government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17958	Honorable representative of Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17959	Thank you very much. Well, colleagues Peric, all these accusations as you have called them are ridiculous and therefore not that we can reject them but also on Friday we will show by our vote how immaterial it was this afternoon to talk about all these allegations, because in all of these points we have justifiedly proved and showed that Minister Coric has very little to do with these relationships, and at least that he is guilty of which he needs to vote for mistrust.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17960	The next replica of the esteemed representative of Cellic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17961	Thank you, Vice President. Dear MPs Juričev-Martinchev, this is just one example of seeking a recall of how the SDP does it. When Tonci Restovic was elected director of NP Krk, it was not problematic, although he was a prominent member of the SDP. When he was employed by Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic, who was selling ceramic tiles, he retired while working at JNA, and then left in '91. Retired when he was elected head of the Technical Affairs Department at the time it was not disputed. So, uh, this demand for impeachment is just one simple hypocrisy and politics that comes from opposition and, of course, we won't support.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17962	Honorable representative of Juričev Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17963	That's right, fellow Cellic. It is unfortunate that we did not really have available personnel, but we had to raise a man who is 23 years retired to become the technical director of the Krka National Park. After that, we have again for our gratitude in 2016: "Milanović's cousin suspected of pulling 43,000 kunas from the Krka National Park". It is such a great respect for the National Park and a great concern for the SDP's Kukuriku coalition and government.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17964	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ante Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17965	Thank you, Vice President. Is it true that I did not hear that Mrs Ahmetovic listed all her relatives as counting Mr. Poljak, so is it true that Mr. Poljak is a cousin of Mr. Milanovic then Prime Minister and SDP President?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17966	She's a representative of Juricev.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17967	Thank you very much. A colleague of Sanader da, Bosko Poljak, the closest cousin of Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic, was employed in Krka National Park as head of the Technical Affairs and Maintenance Department after spending the last 23 years in retirement in 2014, and as I said in 2016 he was already an investigation and suspected of pulling 43,000 kuna from the same park.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17968	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed MPs, the Voter.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17969	Dear counterpart Branka, if I am not mistaken, you said that Minister Ćorić, or his ministry, had no influence in choosing the director of Krka National Park. Is that what you said? No. No. Okay. But Mrs. Slavica is de facto his choice because he himself said that he chose her based on the impression [[Intruder Reiner: To communicate in this way.]] Yeah. Okay. [[/Intruder of Juričev Martinchev: Good, good. Here, let's go. You say it to the end.]] [[No one, no one I have to admit hears what you're playing. But it's not very common.]] It's a forest, but it's heard to those close enough to come amongst other things based on the impression she left on it. Well, now, maybe if the other candidates knew Guidelines for making an impression on the minister, perhaps they would be in a just position [[Thank you very much. Reply by the respected representative Juričev Martinchev.]] The same as the lady... [[/Intruder Reiner: Here you go. Comrade Voter.]] [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17970	Comrade Voter, please, you haven't been in the Parliament since yesterday. You've been in the Parliament a long time. You know you can't go over time like that for 20, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17971	My colleague Glasovac, the Ministry of Environmental Protection, said I could not affect the content of the public tender because the ministry does not even call it. However, the Report on the Public Competition held by the Committee on the composition of Anja Bagarić, President, Igor... Igor Vukovic as members they submitted the report to the minister for signature. [[You don't understand.]] The report accurately shows that the highest number of points is Mrs. Nela Slavica, and as I said, the third ranking was Ljiljana Zmijanović. There were two others between them. So, she was only four by the number of points.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17972	The next replica is the respected representative Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17973	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, I am pleased that you have listed all the positive results that are in the Krka National Park during the newly appointed and here disputed directors. I'd just like to point out one more time. The appointment is being called into question here all the time for the reason that the candidate was also a Croatian defender. I just don't want it to be manipulated, because even Croatian defenders don't want that kind of thing manipulated. Croatian defenders know when they have the advantage, and that is on equal terms. All those participating in the proceedings shall also have the right to complain if a defence attorney is elected even though he has not been in the same position with all the other candidates. So everyone in the process has the right to appeal, and the one who conducts the procedure has to make sure that they act in accordance with the law, and that's exactly how it is done here. I also want to say that the minister did not make his own decision. So it was the commission who heard all the candidates and rated them.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17974	Thank you. Thank you very much. Now the answer to the replica of the respected representative Juricev.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17975	Thank you very much, colleague Jelkovac, for having elaborated on the rights of Croatian defenders, and we all have the great and debt of respect that Croatian defenders deserve. However, the Croatian defender has an advantage in employment on equal terms. This is not about employment, but about appointment to mandate and not about equal terms, but as I have already said on many occasions Mrs. Nela Slavica has had a far higher number of points and has shown far higher and more quality skills and this is what the results we have now in the National Park show.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17976	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the government, the respected Minister Tomislav Coric will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17977	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Let me just take a brief look first of all at the selection of directors at Krka National Park. What I would like to point out is that there has been manipulation here, above all, in the context of the execution of this contest. So the competition as such is called the Krka National Park itself. In this particular case, the Ministry of Environment and Energy created a three-member Committee in the composition, which respected representative Juričev Martinchev already cited and this was based on three criteria, the first was a work experience, the 2nd was a written programme of the work of candidates and the 3rd impression that the esteemed colleague Nela Slavica gained the most points and was therefore assessed as a suitable candidate for the selection of director or director of the National Park Krka. I'm going to point out once again that the rights in this particular case would be to Mrs. Zmijanovic was questioned that she was Mrs. Snakeovic under these criteria had the same number of points as Mrs. A birthday girl. Unfortunately, this was not the case, which is why we believe that the Ministry of Environmental Protection, or our committee that assessed the candidates, made the right decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17978	We have two replicas on your exhibit, the first respected representative of Kujundzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17979	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, Your Honor. If we go around today's debate, which in my opinion has strayed from what is essentially its measure, maybe the prime minister wanted, maybe not, maybe the fellow MPs who took part in the debate got caught on a cast hook, and then somehow it just rayd and went off nervous. I'd like to ask you two very simple questions. So, I wouldn't want him to take me either ironically or provocatively or in any way. So I'm curious, in your opinion, what do you think are the reasons why you put this number of affairs on the line? And the other thing is, how do you interpret the fact that, for example, Joseph the Roman did something, and that it was a person above you who had been promoted?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17980	Dear Minister Coric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17981	So I'll answer both your questions. No, I'm not interpreting that fact at all. So, if you're holding that the affair is that I named the director, and the parliamentary opposition that you're part of is problematicd on entirely wrong assumptions, then it's an affair. We can go in line, yes, so I am absolutely standing here in front of you convinced that the work I'm doing is correct. As for the actions of other stakeholders in any process, in particular, you referred to Mrs. A Roman who was not part of my ministry or employee in my ministry. But I at the ministry at this point, I'm going to tell you exactly, I have 904 employees and officials, so nobody here can ever know who's doing what. It's just impossible. I believe you understand that if you've managed some systems of five or more people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17982	The next replica of the respected representative Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17983	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear Minister, here is not a replica, but a question. Now, the V.P. has released the recording, and I'm guessing that on that video, you've been saying something and making statements. I'm curious if you know what this is about, where it's taken, why it's recorded, is it possible that it's some kind of unauthorized shooting because if there's been some kind of conversation, speech or debate in the assembly it's known that everything is being recorded legally and that we can always get some records?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17984	Dear Minister Coric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17985	Dear Representative Murganic, thank you for asking. I really don't know where that video came from, it could have been taken by a journalist on one of my entrances to the assembly building or at a government meeting anywhere. I suppose it's a piece of material and once again that, therefore, the impression of a committee discussion that was for the choice and is one of the components of the overall assessment of each of the candidates, and that's that. So not to run away from it, it was simply so on each of the talks that were organised on any appointments is one of the components that should be considered. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17986	Thank you very much. Next individual debates by respected representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17987	Thank you very much, esteemed chairman, colleagues and colleagues. A request to launch a trust issue for Mr Tomislav Ćorić. It's a debate. The coalition of destroyers of everything in HS drawn up according to the signatures that I saw in this spell from the far left which represent the signature of the lady. Bencic and Tomašević, then SDP with 20 MPs, then Oreshkovic Centre, Mrak, then the far right of Mrs. Kristo, Mr. Sacic, and then MOST, the main representatives of Miro Bulj, Mr. Petrov, they continue their only program that we can put together in a few words, rouse and undermine the government of the Republic of Croatia in all segments, of interpretations, of joint exits from the assembly, of rebalancing, of the headquarters, of attempts to collapse and budget today, of course as cake and destruction of ministers. As they say, under the most difficult conditions in which the Republic of Croatia is at the same time, we tear you down and ask you to talk to us, negotiate because we know everything, about everything. So this article that is absurd is certainly, that the opposition obviously does not know otherwise, and that is, that it is about hypocrites, it is obvious that these are obviously people who do not understand the moment obviously are, that they are, that they present lies, that they are false in this book on which they are based the indictment, and that is true, and all of it stands in just one word “depreciate” everything we see, which comes to us on the agenda. So how do they break it down? Today, 45 of them gathered in the budget, 75 of them in opposition, 30 of them had no, they didn't want to go to the assembly to raise or not raise their hands for the budget, they didn't care at all. Yesterday they cry that we won't listen to them here when they explain these great things. Who? Mira Buljo? Or some who vote against today? So where are they today? There's no one here. It's 8:00. There's no one here. Where did these SDP guys go? They signed them, they all signed. When did the charges go down? At the beginning of the debate when Mrs. Kristo said the SDP obviously has thieves and criminals. That's when I saw Mr. Bauk's expression, he said by himself what I needed, Mr. Grbin picked himself up and left. And so this situation has arisen that there is no one here. They're, they can't stand HDZ on this side and what they're doing knows they're going to get 40 to vote. They're not interested in this at all, we've heard we'd talk to you for a while. In what way? By falsely accusing you, by all accounts, it doesn't matter what. So what did they write? Point 2. CMP, wind power stations. They still assure us after the impelation of 51 MPs for that interpretation failed to come back 24, they were not interested at all. When we proved to them that it was better to make 48 wind generators than 71, that it was a better protection of nature, that we inherited it from the Most, from the SDP tariff, and that they wanted to bring down the minister they're accusing falsely here today and they want his shift. Who? So the people who I look at today in the square of Tomasevic, Škoro, the coat of arms are all standing outside, because these people who gave you the voice where you lead them. To the left wing? Well, that's what they need to know. That they all go out together not the square and say, "Here's what we want to bring down, and there's 45 of them." So what are you going to bring down with 45? 45. You'll have to do your best, gentlemen. Point 3 says we ignore all living judgments, we only take the ones that suit us. We protect our members, we want to protect them. And they say the law on defenders on equal terms, our member should be the one. And it's over. And there are no other judgments except theirs. When Grmoya says this research cell has thrown all the investigations into the basket. Everything he's been researching in these five years is all thrown into the basket, nowhere does it end except that he's important to himself and everyone's surprised at him. And point four, they say the minister was in conflict of interest? Were you ministers in conflict of interest i.e. Is the case against you in the 1.10th? Read in the paper and falsely based on it some sort of accusation of their own. They didn't even open the sides of a conflict of interest or ask if a procedure was initiated? Nothing. We're judging, we're writing charges, and we're going to judge you. There's no such thing. At 45, at 30, maybe we're important.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17988	Thank you very much. We have several replicas, the first respected representative of Cellic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17989	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Representative Borić, you are sometimes a sort of chronicler of the Croatian Parliament, so I will ask you a question about the county from which you come. Do you know who passed one ancient saying, the phenomenon should be condemned, the other one saved? The political mentor of some who today declare Minister Coric will not mention the concepts they use at all. So these 3 points of small dots that they mention are all tied up in some way and can be analogous for example, an example of how the SDP government what if we go back from 2011 to 2015, and as far as this famous club is hurting, I think it hurts the most someone they love very, very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17990	Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17991	They found no moment, no moment to ask their superior, our superior, what were you doing there? Mrs. Oreshkovic carved one record there in the President's office, not and of course who should be guilty, always someone else. Although the man said I was there when there was quarantine, all closed up, I came as the Bull says the exact same thing that was excess and of course it doesn't bother them. Why? Not to the Homeland Movement, not to the Most, not to Zekanovic, not to the Sovereignists, not to anyone. Why? Because they put him in that place together. Why would they take him down? Let's take down someone, let's say a colleague named Coric, now he's bothering them. Question who's next? Most of the time, someone's gonna bother them because it's their policy. We roll from day to day, raid and undermine government in every segment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17992	The next is a replica of the respected representative Pavic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17993	Dear Vice President, dear colleague Boric, you're a little more experienced than I am, so tell me you have experience with such interpretations and recalling ministers, so I haven't seen a bizarreer one than this. To begin with, here's the leader of the opposition, gone, you've noticed well. When we entered the contents of those three points he didn't know. He didn't know anything about renewable energy sources. He just kept repeating the same sentence. counterpart Ahmetovic discussed a part that was not written into the text of these 2.5 pages at all. Those with their coalition partners who had this around the assembly, some bad coalition, this one, they're not at all, I see they're uncoordinated. And what you said, they're gone. 40 signatures, 50 of them were at last's impelation, I don't see the meaning of this, but as Mr. Bernardic ended up seeing Mr. Grbin as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17994	The answer of the respected representative, Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17995	Thank you very much, colleague Pavić, I've been collecting a little bit and watching who's doing what today afternoon, out of 40 of them who signed only 10 got involved in the debate. 30 didn't even need to lift the replica. We're going to keep on saying what this indictment means to them, and it all fell apart the moment Mrs. Kristo told the SDP that they were thieves. No, and then there were reactions and those who knew something and who were more experienced left this battlefield and left us here to talk about it now. And of course I'll try to explain why there's no INA MOL here and why there's no PPD. Well, because the members of the Homeland Movement were connected to this PPD. And they wouldn't have signed on such an article if it had been put in there, but we're going to discuss it out of it, and that way we're going to be important to ourselves. We can tell the minister everything, but when he answers us the way we're gonna get angry, we're gonna be angry and we're gonna go outside, etc. Here.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17996	The next replica is the respected representative of Sacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17997	Dear colleague Boric, I don't know what spectrum you live in when you see the final right in Parliament? We are normal Croatian people chosen by the Croatian people who have their own programs. They're in accordance with the Constitution. We are fighting for our values which are obviously not yours and when you call us so we can always say that if the universal categories are fighting corruption, fighting crime, protecting the interests of the Republic of Croatia we will always be together as President Tudjman in the war united everything for the benefit of Croatia, so will we.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17998	Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u17999	Thank you very much. I really don't know what you as an honorary general of the Croatian Army are doing in this let's tell the real society of destroyers. You were a general of the Croatian Army, a military officer, a specialist, you fought for this country to now try to tell her in some way to subdue with some kind of activity called an article, an article that needs to be torn down by some people and ministers. At the same time, you're saying that this is the greatest moment we need to be together. So how do you create it? In a way we will tear you down, we will tear down everything we need to bring you and the budgets, and the rebalancing that normal society will work, and then you invite us to talk and we will talk as we do today in a way that you falsely accuse, that you write it falsely that you haven't even checked the fact that you're stating that a conflict of interest procedure has been initiated. Not running. So how do we accept it as something that's well-intentioned?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u18000	Thank you. Honorable representative Sacic has committed a violation of the Rules of Procedure. What's hurt?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u18001	... that I am, or I am, the destroyers of this society. [[The speaker is not enabled, it is not understood]] We're fighting within the framework, so it's not in line with this Rules of Procedure. We are fighting for our interests in the interest of our voters for our rights always for the benefit of the Croatian people.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u18002	Okay. You know that yourself or you might know that it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, so I'm giving you a heads-up. Let's move on. The next replica is respected MPs Vucilovic. And I'm sorry. First respected representative of Glamuzina.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u18003	The reason why some MPs are not here is because they were invited to the central news on Croatian TV networks evening info shows because, behold, the wonders of Croatian citizens are interested in which the minister will fall first in this government, while some of your vice-presidents have successfully unargued but systematically removed from the session or taken their word from them. I see that your questions are accompanied by your colleague Pavić, and I can only tell him that every time I see him, he reminds me of that song, "You've got a good perfume."
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u18004	Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u18005	Well, I don't know what I should answer to a line like this that the lady says is that everyone on the left, everyone on the right, everyone in the center on all televisions, and that they're arguing, and that we're staying here and we're discussing in the Croatian Parliament, because there's obviously nothing more important than being on TV and saying one-on-one all the time. This is where the arguments happen, gentlemen. I've been seeing it all afternoon. It's not easy for you to come with us, because we're also willing to respond to every insult, every false argument. We don't make up like you make up these watches. You're saying a case has been initiated against Mr. Coric for conflict of interest. Well, it's not on record, either, or you want to replace it. For what? So why lie to Croatian citizens and people? Because you read it somewhere in some media? Well, that's not proof of that. Why didn't you consult with the Committee for Conflict of Interest, which you normally hold very well? And you write it as a invoice as a final fact. We should accept that, too. [[Thank you. We've got...]] We won't.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u18006	We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure. What is it with respect to MP Boric's injuries to the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u18007	Please, my last name, I'm sorry we're wearing the same last name since you're saying we're lying. You can't tell agents to lie no matter where they get the information. If you don't like the information we get in the media, you're complaining about the media. You're funding them anyway and censoring them. So you can't tell us, and the injury is of course classic. I must quote for Mr. Knight 238.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u18008	Yeah, it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. You know it's not, so I'm giving you a reminder by taking away your words. It's theoretical, of course, because you don't talk anymore anyway, but let it be recorded. The next replica is respected MPs Vucilovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u18009	I thank the chairman. Dear fellow Boric, you managed to throw yourself into a dilemma in five minutes. You first said that counterpart Vidovic Kristo accused the SDPs of corruption, which they didn't like so they turned their eyes. Then you put the SDPs and the Homeland Movement in that red-and-black... here's what I see you're inspired by the Standal Coalition. So now I don't know, decide whether we're together or not. Are we destroying something together or are we against them? Because in 5 minutes you actually managed to get yourself into a contradiction, and about the PPD, you might want to ask yourself which party the PPDs were lending money to. The native movement isn't.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u18010	Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u18011	Thank you very much. Mrs. Vuciilovic, I was talking about it if you listened well. It means there was a mess the moment Mrs. Kristo took her word and accused the SDPs of being thieves. That's when the gentlemen reacted and realized that in that society that you're doing to that destroyer coalition, there are simply no other elements that can unite you except to bring something down. But that's already unsuccessful. You understand? So you started accusing each other here all afternoon who's who he blames for who. And now that you've seen that there's nothing, now that we're all good. We're all together, let's all have a nice talk, etc. And that's how we're going to vote 50th. The minister will remain minister. One constituency afternoon that could have been used differently, unfortunately, has gone away. But there will be more of these, and we're glad that you want to talk to each other, but at least be responsible, so don't write the lies here in these watches to cheat on both the people and yourself. At least check the facts, check the facts.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u18012	The next replica is the esteemed representative of the Voice. Here you go. Please don't get out of the bench. Here you go, fellow Voter.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u18013	I appreciate your attempt to be a new HDZ spin doctor, but one is a P.J. Mara and one is Ratko Cat. You're saying what you have here right now at the second point of the so-called. The indictments, mentioning the wind power plant Krsh-Paden, so we refused your interpretation a few days ago. Well, I don't know the same thing that the USKOK suffered in an investigative prison one 20 of your officials who from the departments who led local administrations and self-government, I really don't know what those people were doing when you refused to intervene and said there was nothing controversial about the Krsh-Pajene project, and at least the responsibilities of some HDZ officials. And secondly, when we talk about this point 3. about staged competitions for the heads of the Krk National Parks. So this one commission at the ministry also for the head of Paklenica National Park is looking at wonders, two were candidates, one candidate and one candidate with the same number of votes, but what ruled out, so cousin ties with Prime Minister Plenkovic's family and elected candidate who is related.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u18014	Dear Representative Boric will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u18015	Now what do we say, Miro Bulj?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u18016	Let's not go from the bench, it's late hours, I see some losing nerves, don't.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u18017	Mrs. Glasovac, at least you were the assistant minister in that famous Kukurik government. You remember how you collected all those members of the SDP into your cabinets and kept them there for four years, and then eventually tried them in that state service and kept them as much as possible. Unfortunately, i.e. Unfortunately for you, the Constitutional Court hastened you, forbidden you, destroyed your decisions which were lawfully lawful. And I'm not going to talk anymore, I've already told my colleague Ahmetovic. These gold pieces of your honesty, morality, infallibility, etc., if you have mistakes admit them, but do not justify other mistakes on your own example. Because it just doesn't work. And you're trying to convince us that we should vote what you wrote. It's not true. So you haven't even checked to see if there's a conflict of interest against a man. That's how we talk.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u18018	Now, on behalf of the promoter, the Honorable Representative Bulj will speak. I hope you won't be giving yourself a line when you've taken the tile. When you took this tile. [[/Intruder: Probably.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u18019	Is that okay? Thank you very much, here after Plenkovic's flake, our fellow respected Boric, who sometimes tells the truth when he is in this whole exhibition after his historic speech, I thought I'd withdraw his exposure, but I have to point out a few facts that the Minister of Environment has done great damage in Dalmatia, in the Split-Dalmatia County in terms of waste management because he has not taken any steps except by making one move along with the inspector of the state who closed the dump in Vrgorec, I repeat once again that 120km of waste was transported on the highway, old trucks that collect waste, garbage this old one 20, 30 years old so that they endanger traffic and the environment, old diesels of what, this barely licks the road. So on this matter of waste management absolutely nothing was done mainly in my Split-Dalmatia County, where it was sent after that last year, by the Ministers of Vrhorak's waste at the Sinj dump in Myanmar, but now it has come to say no to Mojenko's warehouse and close it because it has not reached certain standards and I agree that it has not reached certain standards that the tribals exist this should have done certain things, it should have been done as on the island of Krk waste management in a way where waste is separated, where they are composite, where the recycling yards, where the waste lords are meant, where waste jobs are located, and not exclusively garbage. As for the Krka National Park, I will repeat once again that the points and criteria were the basis of the talks that was the only criterion with the minister or with some team he appointed and which assessed the candidates on the basis of the talks. That was a criterion, if that's a good criterion for a fellow I'll fight then I don't know what to say. Based on the conversation, someone got a 10 grade, someone 9 and Ljiljana Zmijanović, who is a Croatian defender and who has better references to education than Mrs Slavica, simply couldn't pass. And the court of the Administrative Court in Split said by its decision that it was illegal, that the illegal appointment signed by Minister Coric and he annulled that appointment and did the same again. He reiterated that he appointed Ms. Slavica, however, it is a fact that under the Law on Croatian Defences, when the Croatian defender who is running for the same, has the same conditions that he has only in these conditions have priority. In this case, Ms. Slavica did not have the advantage because this one had better conditions, meaning the conditions regarding the education of Dr.sc. Mrs. Zmijanović has been dealing with these topics her whole life, and in addition to that, the Croatian defender, she was in the Homeland War and in the units of HOS and in HV units, and someone mentioned it to me here, a colleague mentioned Jurič to me that she was in MOST, she was never a member of the MOST, Mrs. Zmijanović, either not to deceive the public and do not lie, I know that she was on the Homeland Movement list, she was a friend to me and when she was in the HDZ, and when she was in the Homeland Movement, or when she was in the Dominical Movement, I don't know where, in this way I don't see this problem at all, but I am looking at this problem through the violation of the Law on Croatian defenders and disrespect by the minister of the decision that even in the proceedings at the Administrative Court in Split. And now that ministry pays, the ministry pays the conflict in court with a woman who defended the Republic of Croatia and who only asks to be handled in accordance with the law and that's a fact. And these four points are very important in Slovenia 9 that it couldn't have been every single one, perhaps Oleg played the card well Butkovic minister so he missed the fourth one, but not everyone could come. There's a money counter, there was the worst form of corruption, there was a man who owned it with the greatest potential and resources, that's our Janaf. And for that reason, the very suspicion that it was a gathering and the basis of the indictments that were filed suggests that the minister was not in favour of this post. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u18020	Thank you very much. Looks like colleague Boric and I are working on the same wavelength, at least as far as this goes, I was just about to give a break to air a little bit, so I'm gonna take a break now and see you back here in... Not tomorrow, but I'll see you in 35 minutes, 20 and 35. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] It's a meeting at 8:26 p.m. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING IN 20.34 HOURS]] We now have a replica of the respected representative Ante Kujundzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u18022	Yes, thank you this chairman. So, fellow Bulj about the competition for the director of the National Centre, so I think it's very important that you, and the rest of your colleagues, therefore each competition contains, above all, the formal conditions which, as such in a minimal sense, define the law. I don't know if you can hear me. A fellow Bull? It is. So, the minimum conditions laid down by such a law, so to them, one like, who's an employer adds an addendum to the conditions in that first sense. In another sense, we have additional competences that are prescribed by the employer again and then, of course, there goes the rules on the testing of candidates that the employer is making again. So, the employer in the whole story has certainly what they say... in the sense of selecting candidates. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] With all the formal conditions of competition and additional competences, it is definitely the law on the rights of Croatian defenders, in the old law that seems to me to be an art. The 35th of this, so he, this law, is defined by a special law of some kind.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u18023	Thank you, thank you very much, very much, for the response of the esteemed Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u18024	Therefore, it is not excluded that this colleague is not excluded.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u18025	We heard. Dear Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u18026	Yes, it is clear that under the same conditions in the competition if the person running has the same conditions, and with another person candidate, and has the status of defenders, it is only under that condition, and in this case it is clear and based on the judgment of the Administrative Court in Split where the ministry paid for the process i.e. In the end, he had to pay against Mrs. McNally. Ljiljana Zmijanovic, Croatian defenders, in order to conflict and eventually the ministry lost it and the administrative procedure, in the administrative court, and otherwise I believe it is an indication that Minister Coric was probably under pressure in this case. I don't even blame him. I think even that it's more, as I said, down from the head of Dujic County, without him you can't literally do anything, you can't hire this cleaning lady somewhere, so I don't blame her, he's just left here on a rifle, but because he wasn't bold enough to attract it just can't be a minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u18027	Thank you very much. Thank you very much. The next individual debate is the respected representative Sandra Bencic. She's gone. And she took it back. [[Step from the bench: She pulled out]] She took it back. So, then I'm going to finish the debate on this point and we're going to vote on it... Well, I'm sorry you didn't answer in time, I mean, we'll vote on it when the conditions come to pass. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] We have completed our work today, and we will continue this tomorrow with a statement on amendments to the Implementing Law at 9.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u18028	Chairman, you should allow, I don't know, Mirella that on behalf of the promoter, the closing word she reported here.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u18029	Excuse me, everyone has to answer for any form of speech.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u18030	But she answered.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u18031	After I said we were done and we were...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u18032	Well, come on, we're gonna finish this today, so she signed up.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u18033	So tomorrow will be a statement on the amendments to the Executive Act at 9.30.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u18034	But I don't think it's fair, so let her finish that closing word, so please here.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u18035	We're done arguing.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u18036	But my colleague Mirela called, and you wouldn't let her. I'm asking you to let her finish. That's five minutes, so what does that mean?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u18037	Look at the sessions, we're done for today.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u18038	So please, here's those five minutes, what does it mean to us? Five minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u18039	And you can pick up 10 minutes later.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-25-0.u18040	But she signed up. So why Mirella? I'd better not, I'd better not. Well, the chairman, it's amazing. Session interrupted at 20.38 p.m.
