ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-31-0.u13	Honorable, distinguished ladies, MPs and MPs. It is an honor and pleasure to perform here today in free speech especially after the Vukovar hero, the respected and respected representative of Mr. Mlinarić, and in that spirit, on this trail as the wartime chief of the winning force of the Ministry of Police of the Interior, the Chief of Special Police in the "Storm" can tell you everyone as you already know, the action of a magnificent military-related historical, fatal operation "Storm" has not fallen from the sky. She performed when our state leadership and our chief of staff was the late Dr. Franjo Tudjman decided that after five years of occupation, the beasts that we Croats suffered where more than 15,000 were killed, 500,000 people were displaced, destroyed, destroyed, destroyed 600 churches, worship, destroyed and overrun hundreds of slaves, 151 tombs were left mass and Croats finally came to an opportunity with their own help, with their own power to drain our historic capabilities of warriors, to establish a system to free our own country of Croatia and to God we have succeeded. And today, when the government, the current government of the Republic of Croatia and its president, Mr. Plenkovic, in the first place, brings together such a magnificent, unquestioned, military-redarative operation that even in the premises of the International Criminal Court in The Hague has been found legitimate, fair, fair, according to military rules, it is questioned by the fact that it is in connection with some isolated murders in Grubor, which we are expressing piety to victims and that we are building ourselves upon anyone who did so. But it brings this to the moment of the ceremony, the fateful moments of the glory after nine centuries when we have circled almost the entire region of the Republic of Croatia except for peaceful reintegration in Vukovar is an act of irresponsibility, not statehood, not knowing the entire history of the situation, and may have the elements to say, an act of issue of Croatian national interests, because the attitude of equalising the "Storm" and the Grubor came in the position of absolute victory over the Croats in peace. The international court has established its own, and Vucic and Plenkovic have distorted history and in fact led to counterfeiting in a way that implements the Memorandum of Two and the Charter of Serbian Cultural Space, which speaks with the saying, we must do all the Serbian brothers to equalise the blames in these war areas. This is our way of continuing the peaceful life and integration of future European global integration. We wash their cheeks. Based on what? You are not worthy of the sacrifice of Croatian warriors. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-31-0.u25	Dear colleagues and colleagues, good afternoon. I welcome you all. As we have announced, today we begin discussions of clubs and independent representatives. The first is the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists Bridge and respected colleague Marija Selak Raspoudić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-31-0.u26	Dear president of HS, respected colleagues and fellow parliamentary representatives and respected Croatian peoples who follow this session through TV audiences. In recent days, we have been able to see that the prime minister is very concerned about how the Most Independent Lists Club monitors his report on the situation in the EU, particularly with emphasis on what he represents as its greatest success, and this is the negotiation of the funds that we will receive in order to help from the difficult economic situation caused by this crisis. We can say that the Prime Minister is rightly concerned. Now here, apart from those questions that we have already asked him, which we have not received an answer, which concerns our powers within the EU and the way we will be asked towards Serbia's entry into the EU, I will ask some other equally worrying questions concerning our position and position towards the EU. The first question to which we have not received an answer within this report, which concerns this Parliament in particular as the most important bodies in the Republic of Croatia, is the issue of decision-making within the EU. In fact, what we can find here is that one of the key issues in the EU is open, which is who will have the right to make greater decisions within the Union, will it be the European Commission or will it be the EU Council? The report shows that some countries are for one, some countries for another, and that further discussion is needed. The report says nothing about what countries are for one another, when further discussion will take place, who will take part in the further debate and most importantly how Croatia has set up in this particular situation. It's a matter of extreme importance. In fact, we represent the view that a greater role in decision-making should be played by the EU Council precisely because it has stronger legitimacy than the European Commission. What the Prime Minister thinks about it and when someone's gonna ask us about it, we haven't found out. The same way we didn't know what the prime minister meant by the rule of law. We have learned that he is prone to a compromise solution and that we need to be very careful how the public communicates about the problem. But as a compromise solution, who will once again have the legitimacy to determine what a compromise solution is and who wants to ask about it, we have not learned anything. The third concern we have here regarding this report concerns what is most important to us, which is the financial structure. In fact, the report states that there is a possibility of a temporary measure requiring Member States to increase their share, the EU's money to 0.6% of GNI, this increase will be temporary, but it should be very careful whether it comes to it, which means temporarily, and how it will affect Croatia because I will remind here that, given the history of our withdrawals from the EU, there is a great possibility that we will eventually have to give more than we will be able to withdraw the money. So much for the EU and this report. Finally, I would like to say one more thing about the important subject that followed us this week, which is the Law on the Reconstruction of Zagreb. This law did not solve the key problems, we talked a lot about construction reconstruction, what is not sufficiently highlighted here is that construction reconstruction itself brings nothing. In fact, one dimension of the problem is that citizens will argue over who can even give 20% of the more residential buildings required of them to participate in the renovation. And the second dimension is that a large number of citizens, especially those who can, will want to participate in a full recovery while the other part of the citizens will have no money for it. The question is also justified, why is the state investing in construction reconstruction only up to some level that can throw all that money into the wind during the next earthquake? Therefore, in order to be able to access the fuller implementation of this law, we need to reconsider what the construction reconstruction brings us. It is equally necessary to trace what the Society of Architects of Zagreb has already publicly communicated as the need for urban reconstruction, to unfreeze the frozen capital that the state or the city owns in order to even talk about how much money we all have to give to participate in this difficult situation that hit Zagreb. So, we need to approach this fully, we need to approach it proactively, we need to first see what we have, and only then do we have to relate to the money that we have considered to be one of the important ones, which is our already known borrowing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-31-0.u37	We are now going to a second debate, a respected colleague, Stipe Mlinarić, on behalf of the House of Homeland Movement Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-31-0.u38	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. I am Stipo Mlinarić Vukovac from Trpinska cesta. I was a member of Turbo Water Blaga Zadre, after the fall of Vukovar in the Serbian concentration camps of Stajic, Nis and Mitrovica I spent a total of nine months. My beloved brother Mile was beastly killed along with 262 wounded in the Ovcara. I don't hate anyone, everything I've done, I've done out of love for my people and for my country of Croatia. It is human nature to press our daily concerns we forget a lot, but some things must not be forgotten, so I will tell them today because the public, and especially young people must know the truth. Our country was attacked by Serbia's, Montenegro's and JNA's aggressor, and after the local Serb population envisioned a Serb democratic party rebelled against the legitimately elected Croatian authorities. During the occupation of Croatian territory in the so-called Republika Srpska's Krajina was in power by the Serbian Democratic Party that exercised terror over the non-Serb population and organised beast killings and carried out ethnic cleansing for seven years. The current president of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandar Vukic, was a frequent and joyful guest in the occupied area. It should be noted that the prominent members of the Serbian Democratic Party, some of whom were convicted war criminals in 1997, founded on the then-occupied area of the Independent Democratic Serb Party SDSS, which was joined after peaceful reintegration by Milorad Pupovac and the party acts until the day of today, and here in its second term by HDZ's most loyal coalition partner, whose president, Andrej Plenkovic, said, recognized world-era closeness in the SDSS. The SDSS has been trying for years to reciprocate and deny Serbian aggression according to Vucic's instructions from the Republic of Serbia. Serbian politicians turn their stomachs from the mention of "Bleska" and "Storms" because it is their defeat and are usually when all Croats mark the legitimate and winning action "Storms", at the Chetnic gatherings on which Croatia is muddyed. This year, for the first time, it was negotiated for the first time by the Deputy Prime Minister from the SDSS to Knin and Croatian Army General Tom Medveda in Grubore. Vice-President Milosevic will attend the celebration of the establishment of the integrity and freedom of the Croatian state, the state in which he lives and where he is one of the highest officials of the executive government, a state to be respected as well as any other citizen and to respect its laws, customs, culture and holidays. General Medved, on the other hand, will go bowing to the victims because all the victims, especially innocent ones worth mentioning and respect, are not only in Grubori but also in Širok Kula, Celija, Škabrnji, Lovasa, Voćin, Četekovac, Saborski, Jazovci, Jadoj Cave, Bleiburg and many other Croatian sites where the Deputy Prime Minister Milosevic must appear and bow. In the Serbian captivity, I had to keep my head down and my hands on my back, but today in my free state, I don't want to, and I won't bend my head in front of the obvious trade and equalization of the victim and the aggressor as Tomo Bear has bent it. Plenkovic's anti-constitutional government instead of seeking war compensation from the Republic of Serbia for urbanocide, culture, campers and murdered children is trying to portray the Homeland War as a quasi civil war and all because of 76 hands in the air to be in power, not realizing the far-reaching consequences of this act. It is unfortunate that the troops of the Croatian army HOS who have defended Croatia with me are forbidden to come to Knin, and all because of Plenkovic's pride and pride What you're doing is equating guilt and throwing... [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-31-0.u39	Time's up. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-31-0.u45	The next club of MPs is that of HSLS and Reformist on behalf of whom the respected representative Darko Klasic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-31-0.u46	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, distinguished fellow MPs and fellow MPs. Good day to you all first. Here I will discuss the current topics of what happened in the management of the City of Zagreb, and I would like to look back from this pay phone on the issue in the City of Zagreb. Recent floods in the City of Zagreb have revealed a bad governance model in the City of Zagreb, where the city budget is often not planned according to the needs of citizens and the development of the city, but is often guided only by the promotion of mayors and the interest of individuals. Two days ago we discussed the Law on Reconstruction of the City of Zagreb and its surroundings, the question is whether Zagreb will be able to follow the financial law at all. Unfortunately, this is a common case in local self-government where individual longtime mayors and mayors create a local network of interest and thus ensure their long-standing choice. In the City of Zagreb, this is further expressed because of the amount of funds managed by the mayor of Zagreb and where it has managed over $20 billion over the past 20 years, thanks to the powers conferred on it by the Law on Local Self-Government created an interesting network that allows it to hold multiple elections. The consequences of such management despite the huge resources that the City of Zagreb had destroyed and financially devastated city, the capital of the Republic of Croatia. The democratic electoral processes, although the best tool in a democratic society in this case are often abused and the state should intervene and limit the number of responsibilities of mayors and mayors of cities and municipalities for a maximum of two mandates in order to prevent this action from happening in the future and prevent malversion and corruption in our society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-31-0.u55	It is now time to present the party's position with a name and name, Smart and GLAS and respected colleague Dalia Oreskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-31-0.u56	Thank you, esteemed president of HS. Representatives and MPs. Today I'm going to talk about negative selection and metricocracy. Croatia is one of the most unsuccessful countries in the EU by all parameters, under the burden of corruption, and for all other incompetent authorities, we have become one poor, abandoned and quite abandoned country. Our leading experts and acquaintances from all areas are going through chicarisation in their home public institutions because of their dirty political interests, because of the corrupt government at all levels, we have become a state and a society that does not tolerate quality people because, besides them, they are politically similar to the loss of importance. These are the real reasons for the death of Croatia and its citizens. As an example, I'm going to point to the Srebrenica case again. From a hospital whose operations until December last year were in plus with a leading position was a wanted man who provided the country with a 60m-euro project to bring Bandic's resident to his post, and the project itself will most likely be destroyed. On the other hand, no shift should be feared by Krunoslav Capak, who, by his decision, allowed Dari Hrebak not to remain in self-insulation because Kronoslav Capak, with his move, owed this power. Croatia is a pure party state in which the party decides, not even the party, but the party's main party in power. Partitocracy destroyed Croatia's development in all areas because it created a negative selection within a framework that is not capable and high-quality, but only obedient people. But the bigger problem I want to point out today is that such a negative selection imposed by politics has formed a way of conduct among all those who have experienced in their own skin that knowledge, expertise, and quality cannot advance. This has led to a total loss of interest for ordinary people and for politics and for the state, which has led to a small turnout in the elections, which has now led HDZ with only 16.4% of voters' votes holding all power in the state. Yes, HDZ, not this home. And in vain, the Constitution states that "The Croatian Parliament is a representative body of citizens, the holder of the legislative authority that oversees the work of the government" On the eve of the constitution of this call, the Prime Minister called on elected representatives who were not even yet on their duty, tried to justify the desire to introduce us to the situation in which Croatia is now in place. Well, today when the Parliament is disbanded for a summer break, it is clear that such a meeting was not needed or was a motive for calling. From the programme presented by the Government, it is clear that this government has no plan for the difficult autumn that awaits us. This government doesn't know, and it doesn't seem to even want to implement the necessary reforms. I therefore believe that this HS, this assembly must show a greater legislative initiative and that it must be proactive. I did not become a representative to fit into the existing system, but to present ideas about how this system would change, and I expect that I am not alone in this home. The problems of our generation, the problems that will mark this summit are enormous and these problems cannot be solved by the competition who submitted more proposals and amendments, but only by the quality of discussion and cooperation. We must seek to achieve a wider social consensus in the implementation of structural reforms that could lead this burned country on the road to the construction of Croatia, which the new generations have already begun to describe as Croatia 2:0. But let us be aware, this task cannot be solved on our own, so I call on us to open the doors of this House to experts of all kinds, ask the best among them for advice, select them according to the competence criteria on the functions of the external members of the constituencies and take a step. If this call doesn't work out, I'm afraid no one else will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-31-0.u62	The next club of MPs is that Green Left bloc on behalf of which Sandra Bencic, the respected representative, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-31-0.u63	... five minutes of free speech to warn of attempts by the MUP to limit the right to access information to citizens, and through the ban on recording and photographing the conduct of police officers. As you know, the case prompted by the use of force during the arrest of Mr Tihomir Blagus is a gentleman who, breaking into the rooms of the Constitution of Croatian Waters and raising the constitution, managed to prevent even greater damage than the flood in the area not only of Trnje but also of the entire center and the wider center of Zagreb. I and myself can testify to what was the effect of that rise in the constitution in the city center and how the water receded 10 to 15 minutes later. Mr Blagus first did the right thing and his actions cannot be interpreted as illegal because he acted in the public interest and in the public interest of protecting people and property. Nevertheless, he was detained using force. Now, without the intention of entering the justification of such an act because we do not have all the information, we must warn that there was a clear interest in the citizens to record such an act. Shortly after the arrest and release of the video, the police administration of Zagreb responded with a statement in which it completely misinformed the public that the police were banned and based on the right to the protection of personal data by calling for the GDPR Regulation. It is therefore necessary to make it clear to citizens that such treatment is not contrary to GDPR because GDPR does not refer to the protection of the personal data of a public authority representative acting under public authority and thus on a public surface, doing a certain public duty, therefore GDPR does not apply to this and cannot be interpreted in this way. It should also be taken into account that this is about police, so public officials whose identity is not classified, who are employed by the basis of a public tender to perform public service and towards the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. We must not forget that in official police surveillance mechanisms such as internal control, parliamentary and civil surveillance which have often been known to fail and that because of this many citizens have lost confidence in them, it is nevertheless an important component of police supervision and are themselves citizens who are doing so in this way, so by recording actions that have certain doubts that this is an illegal act. Such practice is common in all democratic societies and I will remind you of a recent case of the murder of US citizens by an American police officer who has grown into a national movement "I can't breathe" and who would not have happened if the citizens hadn't recorded illegal police acts. For all of these reasons, we ask the MUP to correct the assumption that the recording of police officers on the public surface is contrary to GDPR and that citizens should not film police conduct in a public place because police have a duty to properly inform citizens of their rights in relation to all public authorities and so on to the MUP and their component police. It is therefore essential that we publish the correction of this claim as soon as possible. So, because of current interests as public authorities, we cannot limit the constitutional rights of citizens, this is a constitutional right to access information and to disseminate information because it is a convention for someone at a certain point. For this reason, it is important to make it clear from this stage in this House to the citizens, you have the right not to act illegally and yet we should thank them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-31-0.u66	The next club of representatives is that of the SDSS on behalf of which the respected representative Anja Shimpraga will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-31-0.u67	Dear Vice President, dear fellow MPs and fellow MPs. In recent days, everyone has been talking about “Storm, ” no matter how much they really know, whether they have experienced these war horrors or have yet to observe them, no matter what angle they are from or from. Every year a child talks in me. The memory of a girl from a colleague. On August 4, 1995, I was exactly eight years old, and suddenly the sky changed color, and the sparta made it harder to breathe didn't feel good. With a backpack bought for the second grade of elementary school, I was ready for a trip, a road that had no name, a road that led who knew where from Knin to Petrovac road across Banja Luka, and from there without standing towards Serbia. The column was long, the sound of tractors and cries surrounded us, the last pieces of bread under the roast I shared with my relatives my grandmother was burning him, and that smell followed me. At the Serbian border, they wanted to send us to Nis, we begged them to let us go to Belgrade and we had a family there. I don't know, maybe the children's tears ruled, let us go to New Belgrade. That's when I grew up, for one night. The desire for a home end, so for four years and then finally we came back to Knin, in the summer of '99, again to his stone, by his river, among his people. I knew that my peers on the other hand had suffered, fear and had to go the way where their home was not, but I also knew that these same children on the one hand and on the other would sit at that same table and not let any more children steal the right to childhood, the right to happiness. A little man is always the one who suffers, the one who asks nothing. Looking at their father and their mother, their blistering and rough hands working day and night in the field to get their children out on the right track. I knew it was much more important to be human than only a Croat or only a Serb and to continue on a thorny path ahead of each of us. The girl's past hasn't forgotten, she's learned from it, but the future, my future was closer and more important, and we all need it. Today, 25 years after this girl from the column stands before you and I have only one wish, we build a society of freedom, we build a future together. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-31-0.u68	Next club reps. Your Honor, MP Kristo, you're the one who's responsible for the breach of the Rules of Procedure? I'd like to ask you first to put on a mask and then speak. [[Intruder: Yes.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-31-0.u69	Thanks for the recommendation. The breach of the Rules of Procedure, in Croatia and in HS the official language is Croatian. It's not true, it's true, it's not August 4th, it's August 4th. I was running up the stairs, so I'm a little out of breath. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-31-0.u70	It's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, you haven't called for an article, so you get a warning. The next club of MPs is the SDP on behalf of which the respected representative Marina Opačak Bilic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-31-0.u90	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, distinguished fellow MPs. At its session on 8 March 2017, the government of the Republic of Croatia established an alliance for Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem to focus its activities. In 2020, this same government is just introducing a more targeted approach project to make it possible to move faster, make more rapid and efficient use of European structural investment funds and measures are still expected to be implemented, such as the creation of a new model of development index, the creation of a poverty map and the development of analytical proposals for redefining strategic regions. So, three years have passed, how long since we know that the government has failed to use more than 35% of the total allocations of 10.7 billion euros, while on the other hand they're trading numbers and billions? Furthermore, what little is invested in Slavonia is misdirected. I come from Slavonia, I live in Slavonia where we have cases that in our municipalities in which the old population is mahogany built social homes, while at the same time the schools are closed because there are not enough students. In Slavonia, more must be invested in agriculture and agricultural production as a very important branch of the economy, both in all five Slavonian counties and in my Brod-Posavina County agriculture has been neglected and strangled. We have come down to the fact that more pensioners are engaged in our villages for their own purposes while our young people are picking apples and strawberries all over Europe. What little O.P.G. remains has been stifled by the inadequacies and inadequate laws of this government. As far as I know, Croatia is the only EU member state that has a law on the CAPs. Nevertheless, thanks to unimaginable, undeveloped and unsustainable projects, Slavonic fields are unprocessed, and cattle farming is almost not there while Croatia imports the most meat and bread. Slavonia that can feed all of Croatia and have more exports than imports if the funds are properly directed and order is introduced on the agricultural product market and domestic production is protected. We have focused on tourism, without further ado, but the question is, what are we going to offer tourists, what indigenous products, whose food? Now we have a new multi-annual financial perspective coming up, and the government now has a vision of where and how we're going to direct these billions that the Prime Minister has brought in from Brussels. What do we want with agriculture, what branches do we want to develop, and how? If we want to be eco-food producers, if we want to be cattlemen, if we want to develop vineyarding and wine production, if we want to develop a dairy industry, all of these are questions that we do not yet have an answer to. Minister Tolusic spoke a few years ago about a strategy for the development of agriculture that is almost almost finished, years after the strategy there is no and we still don't know which direction we're going in. The development strategy and vision we want is a basic prerequisite for the successful use of eu funds. The fact that billions are at our disposal doesn't mean we'll use them. Now it's all up to us, and without vision and strategy, we won't get far. The government of the Republic of Croatia must deal seriously with these issues, run the trombone of the system, give elaborate and sustainable solutions because Croatia, and especially Slavonia, can no longer wait. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-31-0.u99	The next club of representatives is the HDZ on behalf of which the respected representative Ivan Celjak will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-31-0.u100	Honorable Vice President, distinguished MPs and MPs. It is before us to mark one of the most important and greatest dates in Croatian history on August 5th, to mark the Day of Victory and Homeland Thanksgiving and the Day of Croatian defenders. "Storm" is a legitimate, politically justified, morally correct, brilliantly planned and top-notch military-redarative operation that provided Croatian defenders with peace, freedom and independence to the Croatian people. Many greats of Croatian history have tried to achieve the Croatian dream of Croatian defenders, Croatian dream of independence, freedom and independence, so Croatian defenders are the greatest heroes and Croatian history. Today, 25 years after the end of the Homeland War, it is clear who is the aggressor, it is clear who is the defensive Liberation Army. Today, there are also painful subjects from the Homeland War, and for some they will never disappear, time cannot bring back lost lives, damaged health, or wiped out painful family tragedies, and hate cannot and must not live. One of our heroes from the Homeland War, perhaps the greatest of Ante Gotovina's greatest generals, eight years ago said turn to the future. Croatia is a modern European country, highly appreciated in the world with economic, scientific, sports, cultural, political successes. In relations in Croatian society when we face new challenges, especially in the economic field, intolerance should not be developed. Croatia is today a country where we, the children of those who created our homeland in the Homeland War and members of national minorities build our home, there is our family, here we live and here we work and today we build a better future in Knin and in other parts of our beautiful. So far, no government has put as much effort into stabilising the economic and political situation in Croatia as the government has done under the leadership of Andrej Plenkovic. Any uplifting and causing disagreements and division brings great harm. Croatian defenders fought for peace in their country and let's respect that right. Finally, I will quote Karl Chapek as a Czech writer who said "The struggle was created by nature, and hatred was found by man".
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-31-0.u101	Thank you very much. That's how we exhausted the club exposure. Now we would have one break by 12:30, as announced at 12:30 will be a vote on the points we discussed during these last days. Thank you very much. MEETING AT 12:15 A.M.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-31-0.u1467	[[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING AT 12:35 A.M.]] The first is the Report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission on the start of the stay of MP Josip Salapic's mandate and the start of the conduct of the deputy representative, Maja Grba Bujević, and the debate is concluded and I am giving the vote to open the decision on the start of the term of office of representative Josip Salapic and the start of the behaviour of deputy deputy representative Maja Grba Bujević. Please, let's vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? I find it unanimously 132 votes for the decision taken, as proposed by the Mandate-Immunity Commission, and after we have made this decision, we move on to making an oath of attorney. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. Seven. The Rules of Procedure set out the President to read the text of the oath, The appointed representative stands up and pronounces the word “I swear”. Now I'm going to read the text of the oath. "I swear by my honor that I will act consciously and responsibly in my work to uphold the Constitution and the law and respect the legal ancestor and that I will stand up for all progress of the Republic of Croatia." Representative Maja Grba Bujević.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-31-0.u1468	I swear. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-31-0.u1469	I congratulate the representatives on their sworn oath and wish her much success in carrying out this honorable and responsible parliamentary duty. We now move to the Proposed Law on the restoration of buildings damaged by the earthquake in the City of Zagreb, Krapina-Zagorje County and Zagreb County, first reading, P.Z. No. 2. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. I see a colleague of the coat of arms has come forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-31-0.u2033	Thank you, Mr. President. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDP, and in accordance with Article 2(1)(a) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European I request a 10-minute break from the HS Rules of Procedure in order to point out first of all the reasons why the SDP Representatives Club will support this law in its first reading. As we have already spoken during the debate, of course it is necessary to bring the Law on the Reconstruction of the City of Zagreb as soon as possible, realistically it should have been passed. But what's there is. It's not up to us to block it at this point, it's up to us to make proposals, remarks, and the reasons why we think this law can be better. The adoption of these remarks, proposals and reasons will, of course, depend on whether we support the law and when it comes to HS in a second reading. I will only mention some mortgage problems, problems with social criteria, problems with how we will ensure that citizens who do not have enough material resources make it easier to pay their 20%, problems with the appointment of the body of expert advice and funds, problems concerning supervision of the part of the programme that will be made by the City of Zagreb, finally problems with protected tenants whose permanent status is not solved by this law. If these problems are addressed, then we will be able to support the law in another reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-31-0.u2034	The apartment will be approved. A colleague of the Dark Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-31-0.u2035	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. I'm looking for a 10-minute break on behalf of the party club named Smart and GLAS. We will be abstentioned from the first reading. We will be abstentioned for the reasons that we have highlighted in the debate on behalf of the club and in an individual debate. We listened equally carefully to the prime minister who several times said that all constructive proposals of the opposition would be accepted and I hope that our proposals to those who will analyse the law and prepare it for another reading would be considered constructive, and this is an opportunity to point out a few basic things once again. The first thing is here is really not about a comprehensive restoration, it's about a constructive restoration. It would be incomparably better if they took all these other elements and that this law was really a step forward for the capital of a country that would show the way it could deal with the trouble, which would turn the situation into an opportunity, not only in terms of urban reconstruction but also in terms of development and economy. Another reason we also said that a lot of things were transferred through a programme of measures that would bring about the government and where this Parliament would know nothing about it. It is much better that some of the things that will be in the programme of measures are in the law so that they can clearly articulate and tell us what it is. The third thing is a financial model which, as suggested, is not acceptable, which should be given an additional analysis where you should give a script or a proposal of several models. The following is that the law also has a commitment or a proposal to set up a fund. We don't see any reason, there could be one body inside the ministry, this way we'll just get a fund, a new employee and a new burden, and the burden should be as small and the resources should be for the reconstruction of the City of Zagreb. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-31-0.u2036	Thank you. Now it's time for my colleague, Domagoj Ivan Milosevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-31-0.u2037	Thank you, Mr. President. So on behalf of the HDZ Club, I am looking for a break in order to once again discuss or determine that the cost-sharing model 60-20-20 is indeed correct for a number of reasons, and that on the one hand shows the position of the Government of the Republic of Croatia as important to us as our fellow citizens affected by this earthquake and on the other hand that solidarity will be in two directions. On the one hand, in terms of reconstruction, so help our fellow citizens 80% of it takes over the biggest state on itself, but also solidarity in the sense that all small entrepreneurs, small craftsmen, our fellow citizens are all from the entire Republic of Croatia will have a job on, on that renewal. So I'll do it again. This law is probably after the Homeland War and the restoration after the Homeland War the most complex and comprehensive law, it is not a law that, which tries to collect cheap political points and pro-forms but indeed deals with the essence of the problem and seeks to permanently solve the problems of our fellow citizens, and to this all the time we invite the opposition and today we invite all those who are interested to fix, propose, in any way this, this law. As far as the fund itself is concerned, we think that given the sustainability of this process, we think that the fund is really a high price, so almost 90 billion estimated cost, all kinds of buildings, business, private, family houses, which, this law covers, we think that the fund is the only correct way that, in addition to that, not only efficiency but also this transparency that we all keep talking about, in which we swear, raises to a whole new level. In the end and not least, we think that solidarity and the social sensitivity shown in many, many solutions of this law are the most important for our fellow citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-31-0.u2038	All right, let's go on request four, dear colleague Tomasevic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-31-0.u2039	Thank you, Mr. President. On behalf of the Green-Left bloc's Club, I am also seeking a 10-minute break so that colleagues and colleagues from the club can determine one more reason why we will vote abstentionly on this bill. As we have announced already and on, in the debate on committees and plenary debates in the assembly, we believe that the law is going in the right direction, it is more or less on the trail of what we have proposed in the pre-election campaign on the institutional framework and related to the financial framework. However, there are other things that should be done and repaired regarding the social criteria, related to the definition of better publishing rights, related to the participation with insurance, related to the institutional framework and the Institute for Reconstruction of Zagreb, which we are proposing to continue modelling the Dubrovnik Institute for Reconstruction, so that from that perspective we would vote abstention for now and then see that we will have the final bill after the second reading which I think might have come in a few weeks because I think there has been quite a number of overlapping political options both from the opposition and from the ruling majority in HS when we had this first reading of the debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-31-0.u2040	Thank you. Is anyone else picking up for a break? If not, I would do as we did at the end of the last session if you would agree that we are not taking a break but to proceed immediately with the vote of those you requested, can we do that? All right, thank you, then we're going to vote. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: 1. Proposal for a Law on the restoration of buildings damaged by an earthquake in the City of Zagreb, Krapina-Zagorska County and Zagreb County is hereby adopted and 1. All objections and proposals will be sent to the applicant to consider them when determining the text of the final draft law, please vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that 134 MPs and MPs voted, 105 for, 28 abstentions and 1 against, so we adopted the conclusion in the text as proposed. Now it is up to the election, appointments and resolutions, please the chairman of the Committee on Elections, Appoints and Administrative Affairs, Nada Murganic, to submit a report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-31-0.u2047	The Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and fellow MPs, the Committee for Elections, Appointing and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament on 3rd session of 31.7.2020, made the following decisions. Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of members and the selection of members of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament is hereby resolved. Katarina Peović, a member of the committee, is proposed to Tomislav, Mr. Tomislav Tomašević. Proposals for a Decision on the selection of a member of the Committee on European Affairs of the Croatian Parliament, Dr. Damir Bakić. Proposal for a Decision on the election of President, Vice-President and members of the Committee on Foreign Policy of the Croatian Parliament, for President Gary Cappelli, Vice-President Sanja Udovic, for members of Dr. Ivan Celić, Davor Ivo Stier, Mr. Zdravka Bušić, academician Željko Reiner, Domagoj Ivan Milosevic, Marijana Balić, Ivana Posavec Krivec, Domagoj Hajduković, Arsen Bauk, Stephen Nikola Bartulica, Bojan Glasevic. Proposal for a Decision on the election of President, Vice-President and members of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security of the Croatian Parliament, for President Nikša Vukas, for Vice-President Mario Kapulic, for members of Ante Sanader, Dario Hrebak, Ivan Budalić, Angelko Strick, Dr. Miroslav Tudjman, Ermina Lekaj Prljaskaj, Franco Vidović, Michel Jakšić, Željko Sačić, Miro Bulj, Miroslav Škoro. Proposal for a Decision on the selection of an article of the Defence Committee of the Croatian Parliament is chosen by Stipo Mlinarić. Proposal for a Decision authorising the election of members of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament, members of the Committee of Dr. Vesna Vucilović, Branka Juričev Martinchev, Dr. Damir Bakić, proposed by Marijana Puljak, Josip Begonja and Dario Zurovec. Proposal for a Decision on the election of President, Vice-President and members of the Committee on the Economy of the Croatian Parliament, for President Zarko Tušek, for Vice-President Mrak Taritas, for the members of Grozdana Perić, Danica Baričević, Domagoj Ivan Milosevic, Damir Habian, Tomislav Klarić, Branka Juričev Martinič, Named Brumnić, Željko Pavić, Zvonimir Troskot, dr. Vesna Vucilović, Dario Zurovec. Proposal for a Decision on the election of the President, Vice-President and members of the Committee on Tourism of the Croatian Parliament, for the President Dr. Branko Grčić, Vice-President Anton Kliman, for members of Jura Brkan, Danica Baričević, Branko Juričev Martinčev, Mato Franković, Gary Cappelli, Josip Borić, Dr. Siniša Hajdaš Dončić, Boška Ban Vlahek, Željko Lenart, Katarina Nemet and Davor Dretar. Proposal for a Decision on the election of the President, Vice-President and members of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities of the Croatian Parliament, for the President Dr. Milorad Pupovac, for Vice President Dr. Zlatko Hasanbegović, for the members of Ljubomir Kolarek, Dr. Furio Radin, Vladimir Bilek, Robert Jankovics, Ermina Lekaj Prlaskaj, Veljko Kajtazi, Dragana Jeckov, Barbar Antolic Vupra, Boška Ban Vlahek, Domagoj Hajduković, Krešo Beljak, Katarina Nemet, Marin Miletic. Proposal for a Decision on the election of the President, Vice-President and members of the Committee on the Justice of the Croatian Parliament, for President Michel Jakšić, for Vice-President Krunoslav Katičić, members Marija Jelkovac, Drazen Bosnjaković, Damir Habian, Ljubica Lukačić, Ermina Lekaj Prljaskaj, Ivan Celjak, Peđa Grbin, Vesna Nađ, Nikola Grmoja, Ružica Vukovac, Sandra Benčić. Proposal for a decision on the election of presidents, vice presidents and members of the Committee on Labour, Pension System and the Social Partnership of the Croatian Parliament. For President Davorko Vidović, Vice-President Darko Sobor, for members: Nada Murganić, Nikolina Baradić, Mladic Karlić, Ljubica Lukačić, Anita Pocrnjić Radošević, Maja Grba Bujević, Erik Fabianić, Martina Vlašić, Silvano Hrelja, Ante Prkacin, Dr. Katarina Peovic. Proposal for a decision on the election of the President, Vice-President and members of the Committee on Health and Social Policy of the Croatian Parliament. For the president of Renata Sabelak Dračevac, for Vice-President Maja Grba Bujević, for members: Darko Klasić, dr. Ivan Celic, Ivan Kirin, Mladen Karlić, Ljubica Ljukačić, Hrvoje Šimić, Andreja Marić, Davorko Vidović, Silvano Hrelja, Marijan Pavliček and Milan Vrkljan. ... Why does it bother you? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-31-0.u2048	My colleagues, please don't do this, my colleague will decide for herself what she will do.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-31-0.u2049	Proposal for a decision on the election of the president, vice president and members of the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports of the Croatian Parliament. For President Karolina Vidović Kristva, for Vice-President Ante Bačić, for members: Dragana Jeckov, Nada Murganić, Vinko Zulim, Dr. Vesna Bedeković, Ivan Budelić, Ante Deur, Irena Šimunić, Andrea Marić, Romana Nikolic, Marko Milanović litre and master Rada Boric. Proposal for a decision on the election of the President, Vice-President and members of the Committee on Croatians outside the Croatian Parliament. For the president of the Master's Office, Zdravka Busic, for the Vice-President Dr. Nino Rasudić, for members: Nevenko Barbaric, Radoje Vidović, dr. Goran Dodig, Ante Deur, Ljubica Maksimčuk, Ankica Zmajic, Ivana Posavec Krivec, Marina Opačak Bilić, Marijan Pavliček, Dalia Oreshković and Milan Vrkljan. Proposal for a decision on the election of presidents, vice presidents and members of the Committee on War Veterans of the Croatian Parliament. For President Josip Djakic, Vice-President Miro Bulj, for members: Darko Sobota, Radoje Vidovic, Dr. Miroslav Tudjman, Ante Deur, Rade Šimičević, Nevenko Barbarić, Martina Vlasic Iljkić, Vinko Grgić, Željko Sačić, Stipo Mlinarić, etc. Katarina Peovic. Proposal for a decision on the resolution and selection of a member of the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction, member Anka Mrak Taritas, proposed as member of Katarina Nemet. Proposal for a decision on the election of the president, vice-president and members of the Committee on Environmental Protection and Nature of the Croatian Parliament. For President Sandra Benčić, Vice-President Josip Boric, for members: Ante Sanader, Jure Brkan, Drazen Barišić, Pero Ćosić, Ljubomir Kolarek, Dragana Jeckov, Katica Glamuzina, Sanja Udović, Mirela Ahemtović, Marin Miletić, etc. Vesna Vucilović. Proposal for a decision on the election of the President, Vice-President and members of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament. For the president, dr. Vesna Bedeković, Vice-President Marijan Pavliček, for members: Rade Šimičević, Radoje Vidović, Ante Bačić, magistrate Marko Pavić, Krešimir Akcar, PhD. Milorad Pupovac, Sabina Voter, Dr. Rajko Ostojić, Marijana Puljak, Dr. Zlatko Hasanbegović and Dr. Damir Bakić. Proposal for a decision on the election of the president, vice president and members of the Committee on Agriculture of the Croatian Parliament. For President Marijana Petir, Vice-President Ruzica Vukovac, for members: Siniša Jenkac, Josip Đakić, Goran Ivanovic, Ljubomir Kolarek, Anja Šimpraga, Stipan Šašlin, Martina Grman Kizivat, Nikša Vukas, Željko Lenart, Marin Lerotić and Vilim Matula. Proposal for a decision on the election of presidents, vice-presidents and members of the Committee on Regional Development and EU funds of the Croatian Parliament. For the president, Master Marko Pavić, Vice-President Marin Lerotić, for members: Marijana Balić, Branka Juričev Martinčev, Vladimir Bilek, Drazen Barišić, Nevenko Barbaric, Josip Begonja, Sanja Radolović, Katica Glamuzina, Silvano Hrelja, Ante Kujundzic, etc. Vesna Vucilović. Proposal for a decision on the election of presidents, vice presidents and members of the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure of the Croatian Parliament. For President Pero Ćosić, Vice-President Mirela Ahmetović, for members: Sinisa Jenkac, Darko Puljašić, Josip Boris, Vinko Zulin, Josip Sarić, Ljubica Maksimčuk, Marina Opačak Bilić, Matko Kuzmanić, Tulio Demetlika, Marko Milanović litre and Davor Dretar. Proposal for a decision on the resolution and selection of members of the Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament, members Niksa Vukas, Mirela Ahmetovic, Ruzica Vukovac, proposed Dalia Oreskovic, Renata Sablar Dračevac and Daniel Spajic. Proposal for a decision on the election of the President, Vice-President and members of the Committee on Presentations and Appeals of the Croatian Parliament. For President Ivana Posavec Krivec, for Vice-President Anja Simpraga, for members: Krešimir Akkar, Marin Mandarić, Ivan Radić, Ankica Zmajić, Darko Puljašić, Goran Ivanovic, Michel Jakšić, Stjepan Kovac, Miro Bulj, Ante Prkacin and Villa Matula. Proposal for a decision to elect a president, vice-president of the Interparliamentary Cooperation Committee of the Croatian Parliament. For President Erik Fabianic, for Vice President Davor Ivo Stier. Proposal for a decision on the election of the President, Vice-President and members of the Committee on Information, Information and Media of the Croatian Parliament. For President Natalija Martincevic, Vice-President Željko Pavić, for members: Dario Hrebak, Maja Grba Bujević, Dr. Vesna Bedeković, Vladimir Bilek, Goran Ivanovic, Mario Kapulica, Matko Kuzmanic, aka Brumnic, Dr. Nino Rasdic, Karolina Vidovic Kristo and William Matula. Proposal for a decision on the election of the President, Vice-President, members of the Committee on Gender Equality, for the President Dr. Marija Selak-Raspudić, for Vice President Branko Juričev-Martinchev. For members: Anita Pocrnic-Radosevic, Anamarija Blažević, Nada Murganić, Ankica Zmajić, Grozdana Perić, Sabina Glasovac, Romana Nikolic, Mirela Ahmetović, Dragana Jeckov, PhD. Zlatko Hasanbegović and mag. Rada Boric. Proposal for a decision on the election of presidents, vice-presidents and members of the Committee on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government of HS. For President Ivan Penava, for Vice President mag. Miro Totgergeli, for members: Anja Šimpraga, Stipan Šašlin, Ivan Budalić, Marin Mandarić, Anamarija Blažević, Josip Sarić, Michel Jakšić, Stjepan Kovač, Sanja Udović, Tulio Demetlika and Ante Kujundzic. The decision on the resolution and selection of members of the Mandate-Immunity Commission of HS is resolved by Ante Kujundzic and dr. Zlatko Hasanbegovic, and is proposed for members of Hrvoja Zekanovic and Daniel Spajic. The motion for a decision on the election of presidents, vice presidents and members of the National Council to monitor the implementation of the anti-corruption strategy is proposed for President Nikola Grmoja, Vice President Ivana Radic, for members: Sinisa Jenkac, Dalia Oreskovic and Mirela Ahmetovic. Proposal for a decision to appoint an HS delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, for the host Marijana Balic, for members: mag. Zdravka Bušić, Davor Ivo Stier, Domagoj Hajduković, Sabina Glasovac, for the deputy members: Dr. Marija Selak Rasudiæ, Marijana Petir, Mato Franković, mag. Rada Boric and Stephen Nikola Bartulic. Proposal for a decision to appoint an HS delegation to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly. For the head of Dr. Miroslav Tuđman, deputy leader of Stjepan Kovač, for members: Ante Bačić, Dario Hrebak and Ante Prkačin. Proposal for a decision on the election of the HS delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Organisation for European Security and Cooperation, as Head Davor Bernardic, for members of Dr. Furio Radin and Hrvoje Simic, deputy members Arsen Bauk, Zvonimir Troscott and Josip Begonja. Proposal for a decision to appoint an HS delegation in the Parliamentary Dimension of the Central European Initiative, as Head of Dr. Ivan Celic, for members: Anamarija Blažević and Peđa Grbin, for deputy members Hrvoja Šimić, Babrara Antolic Vopor and Marko Mlinarić. Excuse me, Marko Milanović litre. Proposal for a decision to appoint an HS delegation to the Mediterranean Parliamentary Assembly. For the host of Ljubica Maksimčuk, for the members of Katica Glamuzina and Anita Pocrnic-Radosevic, for the deputy members: Grozdana Perić and Danica Baričević. Proposal for a decision on the names of the HS delegation in the Parliamentary Assembly of the South-Eastern European Cooperation Process, for the leader Ivana Posavec Krivec, for members Darko Saturday and Ivan Kirin. To Deputy Angelko Strick and Nikolina Baradić. Proposal for a Decision on the selection of the Executive Board of the National Group of the Croatian Parliament at the Interparliamentary Union. For the president, dr. Branko Grčić, Vice-President Josip Saric, for members: Natalija Martinčević, academician Željko Reiner, Dr. Ivan Celić and mag. Tomislav Tomašević. Proposal for a Decision appointing 2 members of the HS delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Union for the Mediterranean. It's proposed mag. Marko Pavić and Sanja Radolovic. All decisions will be published in the National Journal and will take effect on the day of adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-31-0.u2050	I thank my colleague Murganic for this exhaustive report and open the debate. Since there are no interested parties, I am concluding the debate and I am giving a united vote to the proposed decision. Please, let's vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that 131 MPs and MPs voted in favour, so we unanimously made decisions as proposed by the Committee on Elections, Designation and Administrative Affairs, and I congratulate all elected MPs and MPs on the election and I want success in the future work. This brings us to the end of the 1st session of the 10th meeting of the Croatian Parliament, and I conclude it. The second extraordinary session is planned for 2 September 2020. You will be reported on the beginning of the session in the usual manner on time. I wish you all every good thing and I'll see you soon. Session completed at 13:16 p.m. We are now going to the Report on the activities and results of the Croatian Presidency of the Council of the European Union from 1 January 2020 to 30 June 2020. In accordance with the proposal of the HDZ Club of Representatives, the Club of HNS Representatives-Liberal Democrats and Independent Representatives, the Club of Representatives of HSLS and the National Party-Reformist, the Club of Representatives of National Minorities and the Club of Representatives of the SDSS and the Assembly Working Body, I am voting on the following conclusion: - The report on the activities and results of the Croatian Presidency of the Council of the European Union from 1 January 2020 to 30 June 2020, please vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I note that 138 MPs, 76 for, 52 abstentions, 10 against and we adopted the Report on the activities and results of the Croatian Presidency of the Council of the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-31-0.u3101	That's how the esteemed president of the assembly is. Here I am looking for a break from the Club of Croatian Sovereigns and I am using this opportunity to point out once again one key fact, which is that, according to the report of the Prime Minister, the Republic of Croatia will pay 650 million EUR EU membership fee, which is more than we paid for 155 million euros. And that's the information that the president of the government told us at the pay phone, and after my question, he didn't tell us. So it's a billion kuna more from the state budget that the Republic of Croatia will be paying into the EU budget, and that's not the end. If that number is going to grow, I'm going to say probably and that's also suggested in the report itself. Neither Minister Maric nor Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic said anything about increasing membership fees, significantly increasing membership fees. A billion kuna will give more from its EU membership pocket. Another thing that is very important to highlight, the EU does not have that money, that money is borrowed and will return it proportionally to all EU members. In which way he'll be returned, no one knows. If the EU plans what Mr. Macron proposes, introduce some new tax, which Croatian sovereigns oppose, that is what we do not know. Will this be a tax that will burden Croatian entrepreneurship and Croatian citizens? Will this be the beginning of a new globalist, globalist policy in the EU? We didn't get any answers to those questions. And therefore, precisely for these reasons why we are not answered to the key questions I ask for a break in front of the Club of Croatian Sovereigns for 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-31-0.u3102	We have another request, dear colleague Selak Rasdic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-31-0.u3103	Dear President HS, distinguished colleagues and fellow parliamentary representatives. We are looking for a break on behalf of the MOST Club in order to have further consultations on this report because it does not clearly state what the policy of the Republic of Croatia was on the diversity of views expressed in terms of EU governance, with most Member States seeking to maintain the leading role of the European Commission, while some Member States sought a much stronger role of the Council. Nor do we know which countries have sought what neither our position on the issue nor whether it relates only to the location key, as stated earlier or to the overall decision-making in the EU. We also do not understand what the position of the Republic of Croatia was on the rule of law in the EU. All we could understand from this report was that the prime minister was in favour of a compromise solution. What is a compromise solution in the European spirit, apart from some principled fleet of European new speech, is not clear to us and we are asking an open question here who should decide whether these two issues will be asked anything about the Croatian Parliament as the most important body in the Republic. For these two reasons, we're looking for a break to further consult on this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-31-0.u3104	Thank you. Is anyone else picking up? Can we do it the same way we did it at the first point? Thank you very much. Then we'll go to the vote now. In accordance with the proposal of the HDZ Club of Representatives, the Club of HNS Representatives-Liberal Democrats and Independent Representatives, the Club of Representatives of HSLS and the National Party-Reformist, the Club of Representatives of National Minorities and the Club of Representatives of the SDSS and the Assembly Working Body, I am voting on the following conclusion: - A report by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia on the extraordinary meeting of the European Council held from 17 to 21 July 2020, please vote. Just a second. Here's a colleague of Hajdukovic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-31-0.u3105	So it's a procedural thing. Since I commended this practice, for the first time this report was discussed by the Committee on European Affairs, I do not see why the clubs had to come to the conclusion, because we have reached the same conclusion, and the clubs that proposed it have a majority on the Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-31-0.u3106	I also told the congregation's home labor body.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-31-0.u3107	Okay, then fine.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-31-0.u3108	Please concentrate. Then let's go to the vote, so please vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that 137 MPs, 76 for, 37 abstentions and 24 against, and we accept the report of the Prime Minister. Final proposal of the Law confirming the loan agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development in response to the crisis and support for recovery, second reading, P.Z. No. 3., the applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and the debate is closed, and I am voting on the final proposal of that law. Please, let's vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that 134 MPs, 116 for, 17 abstentions and 1 against were voted against and the Law on Confirmation of the Loan Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development in response to the crisis and support for recovery was passed.
