ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u6	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Your Honor. In fact, we can conclude that the last week has been extremely disturbing for the Croatian public, among other things, it has produced the exceptional sympathy of the Croatian public for the fact that the exhumation was carried out in the Javka cave and, consequently, for 814 innocent victims, followed by this, and above all by respecting the current Council of Europe resolution one of the last of September 2019 on the importance of a European memory for Europe's future. Following previous declarations by the Council of Europe that are condemned and called for a clear condemnation of all the crimes of the communist and Nazi regimes and dictatorships- Respecting and declaration here of our Croatian Parliament adopted in 2006, we expect that our Parliament, our distinguished colleagues, and all together with the expectations of the Croatian public are restarted and the procedure and in charge of the executive authorities in the Republic that all these crimes of totalitarianism and communist violence are being investigated especially in the Jakovka Cave because we are as criminals in '98. For years, they filed criminal charges against the established suspected monster war criminals and criminals. However, because of the inexplicable reasons of silence, deafness, not the actions of the authorities, the DORH have established suspected criminals that I mention have died of natural causes. So today we have the same case in the Belarusian area where a living convict has been approaching us for hundreds of years, we have all witnesses, all evidence, but the competent authorities of the prosecution do not take action, waiting for him to die naturally. Therefore, dear and respected, following all these high principles that war crimes, or the crimes of totalitarian systems, must neither become obsolete for the sake of the future nor for Croatian and European public, be investigated, condemned. I propose that an adequate resolution be adopted which calls for the respect of these values and the spirit of the EU resolutions already adopted, and on the other hand, with great joy, pride and honor, I propose that I follow an article. 160. The Rules of Procedure that a man who spent half his life devoted to the discovery, finding victims, innocent victims of the Javka Cave, Mr. Mladen Hook, who had been a speleologist for more than 30 years led by his personal eros to find the truth, to discover deeply buried terrible crimes, and as such was almost marked in his life in the fight for good, the Holy Spirit certainly guided him when he personally discovered that cave "Jakovka" back in '89. years and later I cared about it, and I propose that this House should, by virtue of its powers, grant him one commendation, a charter, a thank-you note in honor of his life struggle, and on the basis of all the resolutions of the Council of Europe. I would also ask all of you to put in charge of the conclusion of certain acts of our executive power, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, of the Ministry of Interior, to immediately present before this assembly a complete picture of the situation in the so-called so-called so-called state of affairs. Celebrating Uprising Day in Serbs because he deeply shares Croatian society, he destroys trust internationally, we must not celebrate slaughter, genocide, fascism over Croats, Croatian people under A cover of antifascism. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u17	Time, time's up, thank you very much. We are now going to another debate that is MOST independent lists and respected colleague Marija Selak Rasdic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u18	Dear Croatian peoples, distinguished MPs and representatives of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable President of the Assembly, these five minutes we decided to use on the subject which is burning and the topic we will be dealing with all day today, because that day will not be enough either. Finally, we have a new Proposal for a Law on the Reconstruction of Zagreb. We believe that this problem should have been resolved before and that it could have been resolved without this bill by calling for some existing laws, which would have led to urgent problem resolution and damage recovery. But it wasn't done. So we will immediately say that we will not prevent this law because it has created an impression in the public that it is the only way to solve this problem. In this sense, the first thing I want to warn is that the public is not familiar with what this law is about and what it will benefit from. This law applies exclusively to construction reconstruction. The public does not know what a construction reconstruction is or knows how much it is part of the overall reconstruction, they need to be clearly told. In one situation it can only be 20% of the total renewal, and in another situation it can be much more. Why am I stressing that? Because this program of measures that sounds so optimistically 60, 20, 20 as some kind of football formation, and we all associate nice memories with our football successes, doesn't actually bring anything. In fact, we can come to a situation where such a recovery does not solve the problem of social cases is not enough for them to rebuild construction, but is also in situations where it is crucial to favour an increase in someone's property. In that sense, we advocate an approach that is proactive. Proactive for us does not mean gangic type pulsism and walking around the neighborhoods for animation of voting machinery, various promises ahead of the elections. Population for us does not mean the imitation of Bandician approach by taking pictures with the laurels while helping citizens, which is the duty that each of us has the most normal thing that each of us does in times of crisis because we believe that on someone's tragedy we cannot profit from for the purpose of self-promotion. Population isn't the answer for us. In that sense, proactive means a fair approach. We here as a council, as the body with the highest responsibility in the state, must agree on what is this justice and clearly establish the social criteria through which Zagreb will be restored. Otherwise we'll have a legitimate big problem. In that sense, one important thing should be emphasized. We've seen many of our citizens wake up, rebelling against social criteria. We have seen discontent by helping one another. These criteria should therefore be clearly established so that someone would not profit from them, but we also need to know that Croatia needs to be considered in an integrated manner. That Croatia is as strong as its weakest part is. This time it can even be the capital. Croatia needs to be decentralised. It is a process that has never been completed, often even started, but we also need Croatia in which Istria will not emancipate from Croatia but will exploit the potential of Slavonia in its tourist season to grow together as a country. Access should also be realistic, although we are an opposition and here we can profit from various, different promises because we can't execute them right now we're pushing for an approach that will openly admit that money doesn't exist. 60, 20, 20 sounds nice, but neither will that money be collected in the pockets of the citizens, nor in the reserves, nor does the state have that money. She has not defined the way of funding here, and that way will be the biggest problem and obstacle when she asks for funding from funds from abroad. Just because we need a realistic approach, we need to be brave this time, which means we have to deal with our biggest obstacle, which is in this case the property-legal problem that this law is skipping. It also enters property status and citizens' property rights by offering a mortgage in case they do not pay the reserves. And this approach must ultimately be courageous for us, but visionary, so we will encourage those approaches and demand a public debate that offers the activation of the existing sleeping city resources to address this problem from the activation of the attics to perhaps even building additional floors. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u19	Thank you. We are now going to the third debate, the House Movement Representatives Club, the esteemed representative of Ruzica Vukovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u31	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable colleagues and fellow MPs, I address you in my intention to inform you that in the Ministry of the Republic of Croatia, when the bill is drawn up, it is constantly avoiding the implementation of the prescribed procedure for applying the effects of the regulations, and thus the implementation of procedures that lead to the creation of more quality, economical and transparent legislation. Over the past few years, it has been determined, we find that most of the law that has been passed in the assembly, has been voted by so-called. It's an emergency procedure, and in addition to what the statistics themselves are doing. Therefore, during 2017, 2018 and 2019 a total of 156 laws were passed by emergency procedure, while a total of 242 laws were passed in the ordinary procedure. In addition to the above, it is noted that the laws adopted in the ordinary procedure either have no impact assessment or that the previous assessment has established, according to the will and wishes of the legislator, that the law will have no effect on either the budget or the economy and no further approach to the production of so-called ‘proposals’. SMEs shall test and draw up evidence of impact assessment, which significantly disrupts the role of the Member State concerned. 174. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Next up, Art. 204. The HS Rules of Procedure are prescribed exceptionally, the law can be adopted by an urgent procedure where it requires particularly justified reasons which must be particularly justified in the proposal. Furthermore, the same article also says that when the proposal to pass the law under an emergency procedure is submitted by the MP, then 15 other MPs must have written support. A proposal to pass the law by emergency procedure can be submitted by a club of representatives with 15 or more members and by representatives clubs with 15 or more members. Personally, I believe that most of the laws during the proposal to go according to an emergency procedure did not meet the requirements. Therefore, when particularly justified reasons require that the proposal must be particularly reasoned, the very fact that the bill had 15 other MPs in writing. I don't think the assembling of two law readings in one cannot possibly find the basis and justification for the proposing's haste. I believe that two law readings are necessary for HS representatives as representative body of citizens and holder of the legislative authority in the Republic of Croatia to be fully aware of the law and to be able to make all their views and concerns about the provisions of the laws in the proposal through oral discussion. I also note that this process continuously contributes to the denomination of the MP himself and reduces his constitution by a certain role, which ultimately reduces dialogue and democracy in HS itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u40	Now we're going to the fourth debate. This is the club of HSLS representatives and reformist respected counterpart Natalija Martincevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u41	Dear President of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. These days, Zagreb has been hit again by accidents. In this context, the town of Varazdin was also mentioned as an example of a good disposal system, which is indeed so, it is a system that was built 90 years ago and still works to a greater extent. Today, we will talk a lot about the city of Zagreb, but I would like to talk today from this pay phone about the town of Varazdin, or about a problem of the town of Varazdin, which unfortunately has not been mentioned in this House for the past 5 years. As the parallel of Zagreb-Varaždin was pulled by the distinguished representative Tomašević, who represents a green-left coalition, whose focus, if I understand this well, is the ecology and protection of the environment, which among other things, his list also ran in ours, III. the electoral unit. I think it would be important to warn the representatives, the public, and especially the competent ministries and institutions, that today we have one of the biggest environmental problems in the Republic of Croatia. We're talking more about more than 100,000 tons of waste in the town of Varazdin itself, 100 thousand tons of waste in the water-protection area, and that waste there stands 10th, and a part of that waste for more than 15 years. This waste is also the subject of condemning first-degree rulings against the mayor of Varazdin, I am talking about Mr. Ivan Chehok, who was sentenced in the first degree precisely because of this to 2.5 years in prison, inadmissible, therefore, and now thanks to the slowness and ineffectiveness of our judiciary, it is in a position to solve this problem, namely, in a way that it parallelly improves its legal position and owes citizens tens of millions of kunas. So here we have an ecological, legal and financial problem without precedent in Croatia that points to actually two key topics that I would like to talk about in this short time. The first policy is waste management in Croatia, and the second is the problem of the functioning and operation of our judiciary. I set the example today of Varazdin because I come from Varazdin, but we have such examples of waste management throughout Croatia. Croatia is today, with Greece the most centralised state in Europe, we have centralized everything that has been given. However, here in the case of waste management, where the state should just be the one to take responsibility, to set up a system and rules, yet we are not, we have left it to the cities, to the municipalities, to bring their own solutions, to find their own solutions and to run their own policies, so that now we have a more comprehensive chaos in which some units of local self-government sort of solve it, okay, but some solve it in the way that is the case in Varazdin, disastrously. All I am saying is the best testimony to the fact that, within the rules and criteria set by the EU, we are neither close to meeting any of them. So, here today as a representative of reformists, but also on behalf of the HSLS Club and reformers, I call on the Ministry of Economy and Environment to move immediately with the preparation of the relevant laws, and I especially warn Minister Coric to personally engage in the problem of 100,000 tonnes of waste in Varazdin. The second part, which is tied to the first part, is the question of the judiciary. In fact, we actually got ourselves into this situation in the city of Varazdin because we have a mayor who was illegally sentenced to 2.5 years in prison, the processes started in 2011, 6 years were meant to pass a first-degree verdict. After that, it took 10 months for the court to write the verdict, and therefore, neither is it seen when it could be a final verdict, a final verdict. In the meantime, therefore, the citizens of Varazdin live on 100,000 tons of waste. Meanwhile, the citizens of the city of Varazdin are in debt for tens of millions of kunas, and all of which is, of course, possible because our judiciary doesn't want to, so 9 years from the start of the process, so we're nowhere, so it doesn't want to bring a verdict and it doesn't want to solve this case. This is not only the case of Varazdin, the Czech Republic and hundreds of thousands of tons of garbage in Varazdin, these are cases of numerous in the Republic, so I would call on this government, so this second call and another initiative from this pay phone today to start reforming the judiciary, reforming the judiciary is the mother of all reforms, and I ask that we get out of it because without that we will not be able to make quality decisions and solve anything else in our country and society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u42	Now it's the party's club with the name and last name, smart and GLAS, respected colleague Marijana Puljak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u43	Here's a thank you to the Honorable President, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. Last week, in my first address from this speaker, I spoke of a total vision of the Republic of Croatia, a new and different country, rich and developed, which is the center of a good life for all its citizens. I mentioned modern technologies and industries that we should encourage so that our young people who are already using these technologies and hiring in these industries would not go out looking for work outside of the Republic of Croatia, but others would live and work here. For the first time, words such as “artificial intelligence ” were heard in this assembly. Today I'm going to talk about a whole other thing in this place, which has been mentioned in this place and in public for 40 years. This is a topic that may also be called local, someone will say it concerns only Dalmatia, and here I will talk about building a fast road Trogir-Omis, especially about its unfinished part between Split and Omis. So the Adriatic highway between Split and Omis or Stobreč knot, I don't know if you knew, it's the busiest knot in the country. The measurements have long since shown that this knot passes 50,000 vehicles a day, so more than in the chargehouses in Port. In summer with a large inflow of tourists a road of 10 kilometers which would otherwise take you 15 minutes and a few hours. The problem is not only in the summer but also in the rest of the year because this road is being gravitated by nearly half a million inhabitants, which is Dalmatia, which is neighbouring countries. A normal life has been disabled for people living in that direction, going to work, going to a doctor, going to court, going to school, so from Split to Omis there is no alternative direction for people to use during the crowds that would help them reach their destination. The Adriatic highway is literally their only link to the world. This even poses a threat to the safety of citizens. Here we are now witnessing various threats and floods, earthquakes. In the event of a fire, so there were cases where, when the fires were harassing that part, they threatened lives and property, people simply had nowhere to run, they were saved, they were completely cut off from the world. Here I can literally jump into the sea and wait for salvation. As early as the late, last state promised to build a fast road Trogir-Omis, a modern road was discussed in the 1980s because the Adriatic highway was outdated. Tourism was developing, infrastructure was being built, houses were being built, apartments were being built, but only the road remained the same. The part from Trogir to Split is even realized even though you can see every 500 meters instead of the overpass are traffic lights, so it can hardly be called a fast road, and this part from Split to Omis cannot go. Ivo Sanader promised in 2008. Construction, the SDP promised in 2017, so we heard in 2020, now the new date is 2023, so before each election we hear new dates, new promises, and roads nowhere. So I repeat, the busiest road in the country. Even recently famously, the famous world google found that around Split at that time was the largest traffic collapse in the world. Last week I asked Minister Butkovic what was on that road, I said that I would not give him peace from this pay phone and from this position, that I would constantly ask him about when he was going to come to the realization, then he said whether, that some parts of the projects were agreed, moving, here I promise, but here I will act as the unfaithful Toma, I do not believe until I see and here I promise Minister Butkovic that I will regularly and often, very often, ask and finish here and my speeches often with when the fast road Trogir-Omis, here I thank him.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u44	Thank you. We're going to the sixth debate, Green-Left Block Representatives Club, dear colleague William Matula, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u61	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleagues and colleagues. I have been living in, here in Zagreb, in the lower city or in the city centre for decades. And what happened this weekend to people living in basement apartments is really absolutely amazing after everything that's happened to them this amazing year. However, of course that story about how people themselves were turning basements into basements everyone who lives here knows that it is not true, but that much of these apartments have been made and what they can testify is with how much care these people usually have before the crown and in what is once normal that these people struggle and struggle to keep that moisture that is contained naturally in such apartments in order to fight it with as much care as they can, of course, it's very often people who don't have enough money. This earthquake in the lower city led to people who had their little flats in their former kitchens in the attics, and after it was all destroyed, when the walls fell, when the chimneys fell, the solidarity of the citizens allowed them, I can testify because I know people, it allowed people to go to basements or basement apartments and such small apartments to squeeze. There is solidarity, and that's why it's a completely amazing story that goes on the media these days about people worrying about why they should now be solidarity, why 60% or I still don't know 20% of the tax exemption for these rich people in the Lower City of Zagreb. It's on the 2001 census. The Lower Town Council had about 45,000 inhabitants. In 2011, that number fell to 37,000, I'm a councilman in the city district of Lower Town and I know very specifically and very well what I'm talking about. Airbnb when it appeared was the most sympathic, urbanly possible, it was young people renting couches or renting their rooms to friends so it seemed to us, coming from around the world some young people around in the neighborhood and it was really alive and it was nice. What people are telling us now is that I don't know what kind of rich people and who see in these apartments and in this terrible earthquake in this creepy thing with the coronary crisis, see only a business opportunity, and even from this flood, they see again only a business opportunity. These are the people who, here, have taught us corporations not to talk about the problem, because the problem is not the problem, the problem is the challenge. Well, if we don't talk in the assembly, then we're really in trouble, and that's not a challenge anymore. And what I need to say and I'm going to end this speech anyway, because the fact is that today you can't afford to live in the Lower City, you just can't. You can't pay neither as a November, nor as a youth where there's a democratic logic, you can't as a young couple afford to live, you have to live far, far on the edge of the city. This is what I end up with, apartments are for us homes, not other people's profits. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u64	We are now going to the seventh debate, SDSS's Club of Representatives, respected representative Dragana Jeckov, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u65	I thank the Honorable President of the Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the Assembly and MPs, in the last few days the media space has almost been occupied with several topics. The outbreak of the coronary virus with which we were almost revived, the flood in Zagreb, and there was no damage caused and an intense debate on the possible departure of SDSS representatives to Knin. The debate particularly on the last topic took place you heard at almost all levels. Without the intention of reducing the importance of the topics mentioned, I suggest that for a moment we move away from them and these few minutes of free speech on behalf of the SDSS Representatives' Club, I dedicate myself to the same life-long concerns and troubles that occur in the dairy industry in our country. The public is familiar with the fact that Meggle is definitely leaving Osijek. Such a business decision, which they say, could not have been affected by the ban on traditional dairy production of the last large dairy in the east of Croatia, which, by the way, is being said to produce milk and dairy products, began in 1949. The reality is that all 160 employees will be fired, and more 280 dairy cooperatives from around Osijek will be found in major problems. Of the 156 workers who are being fired in Meggle, they are largely middle professional personnel, chemical technicians, agricultural professional technicians, administrative referents, etc., and there are approximately 50, 50 who are over 50 years old. Although they have been promised severances of course that over 50 years old and will be extremely difficult to find a job to continue their normal life, to continue their working relationship, and that includes paying off their loan. In an even more uncertain situation, there are 280 cooperatives who wonder what will happen to the production of milk, what we will do with animals and what we will do with our OPGs. Without the intention of politicizing from this place, I would like to remind once again of the importance of preserving the dairy industry not only in Slavonia and Srijem but in the entire Republic of Croatia. This is not only about the production of milk and meat but also about the negative effects on the survival and development of rural areas where cattle and dairy play a key role in the survival of the village, as well as in maintaining the natural and ecological balance. It is therefore necessary to adopt the so-called "emergency." a milk package to stop the village parting process as soon as possible and set a solid basis for sustainable growth. Smaller and medium-sized family economies, as well as everywhere in Europe, need to regain the role of the main bearers of milk and meat production. I remind you that some European countries such as Slovenia, Poland, the Czech Republic or Slovakia are fully self-sustainable in milk production, and our production is already so small that we are being overrun by tiny Luxemburg, which produces more than 400,000 tonnes of milk on the surface of a smaller Croatian county. By the end of the year, we have time to find a strategic partner who is willing to take over the factory and continue production, and all of us, especially the profession in this area, take serious steps and try to save both jobs, but also the OPGs who know the work, believe me, do well and do not want to work it in Ireland or any other country that they will process while remembering their empty stables, their fatherland and grandfather standing in... Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u74	It is now up to the club of representatives of HSS and HSU respected counterpart Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u75	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I want to thank 2398 citizens, and first of all I want to thank them for my preferential votes. Some will say it's a lot, it's a bit, but getting those votes working all the time in the legislative power is quite difficult and being held on a political stage because you are still just a politician. As much as you stand for just solutions in the pension, social, working legal system, you're just a politician. But on the shift of these mandates, it may be worth wondering if we are all personally mistaken in the rhetoric I am promoting here. True, I was aggressive to the institutions, I was aggressive to the executive authority, I attacked in the belief that I advocated fair solutions, and they are indeed just solutions and all 2398 of my preferential votes prove that these are just solutions because these voices and these people and these citizens have not dried up despite all personal spits and obstructions by both political opponents and associations and all those who may have felt threatened. So it's good to think about it every time. For example, how to defend the EU's claim that Croatian citizens have only 32.5 years of standing, how to defend? He can't defend himself because that's not true. It's not true for one reason that there are 230,000 invalid, wrong data in statistical data, there are 230,000 false data. I am offering from this place to anyone who, therefore, works in the institution, who is in charge of institutions, who wants to correct that ugly picture that comes back from the EU about Croatian citizens and their work experience, I am offering help, I am offering to participate in the project of clearing bad statistics, I am offering beauty, not artificially but really, pictures of the Croatian job experience, because they are almost as close or as very, very close as all Europeans have worked for a long time and have not calculated the internship during the course of schooling, so the university is not counting on them an internship for the conduct of the regular military period, so a lot of what is elsewhere. It's 160,000 pensions abroad and it's 64,000 disability pensions that were translated after 65 years of life into retirement pensions. But the point of the story is different. In the time of this crown where we live and work, all those who work in private companies are very easily left without a job. I am sending a message to all those who work in institutions, faced with this kind of truth that I publicly say they do well, that before one paper is issued outside anywhere, citizens, institutions to look behind this paper, there are some human fates and there is a picture of us, of Croatian citizens, of Croatia. It is not good to pass on or to deliver a good picture and a fine picture, a real and just picture. So I ask all these people to go well towards each problem, to study the problem well, to give a good diagnosis, to make good conclusions from which we can make good solutions for Croatian citizens here because these are our citizens and we have sworn to take care of their rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u76	Thank you. We are going to the 9th debate, SDP Representatives' Club, a respected representative of Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u83	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues. Today we will discuss most of the days about Zagreb and the surrounding area, about housing, about housing that is affected by natural disasters. But in this brief address, I would also like to talk about housing, but the one affected by the human hand. In fact, if we go a little further from Zagreb to the east next to Osijek, we will reach the town of Orahovica. I'm sure you've heard of it, the nuts end is very specific, pitorescan, it's decorated by a large lake, one of the biggest music festivals in the Republic of Ferragosto Jam, Ružica city, the best preserved medieval fortress in Slavonia, good wine, so wineries, surely you've heard of it if you haven't tasted their wine. But in that area, not everything is so idyllic that it can be read from these first words of mine. Namely, the nuts end is also known for its yet another interestingness. Namely, in its vicinity is Pogorec, a village where the inhabitants themselves have named this nickname, in fact a village called Duzluk. Why is this place of about 200 inhabitants so important, and why do I want to draw attention today to the locals of that village? Because they live in fear. My colleagues and colleagues, in the 21st century, in a time of peace, the people of Duzluk live in fear. And they live in fear that someone will burn their property. In fact, in just over a year more than 10 objects in Duzluk burned down and it was certainly unquestionably found that the fires had been set. Only one case was attributed to an accident, or worker threw a couple of smokes at the break-in, so down the slope, and something was probably on fire, but what about the other cases? So the police found it was arson. In one of them almost tragically injured the owner of a burning house. We can't even say that this is an ethnically motivated, motivated crime because they burned both Serbian and Croatian houses. However, even after a year, the police failed to find the perpetrator, although police patrols were frequent, although cameras were set, houses still worse, several months ago it was the last case. The locals fear for their property, the locals fear to be in their homes because as I said earlier, a gentleman is unfortunately almost killed in his own house. According to some media reports, the problem begins when a project to arrange the entire environment is announced as a significant tourist destination. Namely, the nuts end, and in particular this mentioned village of Duzluk lives from the lake, a lake which is a swimming pool, but which is also the centre where this music, music, music festival is held. For a year, the citizens lie down and rise in fear of burning any of their property. I could bring it into line with what happened in Zagreb. And while in Zagreb the uncertainty of its citizens has caused natural disasters, floods unfortunately, what is happening in Duzluk is much worse because it is caused by a human hand, because it was caused on purpose, and what is most affected is that the police are unable to secure a peaceful dream for 200 of our fellow citizens and fellow citizens. My colleagues and colleagues, for this reason, I have to draw attention to this, I have to appeal to all the institutions to do my job because I really think it's a little weird at least that the police can't find a pyromaniac who sets fires or pyromaniacs for a year after the first time, so I don't want to, I can't claim it's one person. The more the village says things, the guesses are all sorts, the more I won't bring them out here, but guesses start when institutions don't do their jobs, when they're unable to secure, as I said, a peaceful dream. And that is why, and precisely because of the slogans used by this ruling majority, it is "Secure Croatia", I appeal to both the government and the institutions, so also to the police, to do their job, to ensure the property and the peaceful sleep of our fellow citizens in Duzluk or Požarevec as they call it from miles because it is tragic that in the time of peace in the 21st century someone must fear that his property will be deliberately burned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u91	We are going to the 10th debate, Club of HDZ Representatives, dear colleague Goran Ivanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u92	Thank you very much, Mr. President, distinguished MPs, distinguished representatives of HS, here's all I'd like to warmly welcome you to say, perhaps here's an introduction to just one, two sentences about me. I am Goran Ivanovic, coming from a beautiful Slavonian village where the largest Croatian actor was born, that is Fabian Šovagović, which my place is called Ladimirovci and belongs to the town of Valpovo and Osijek-Baranja County. On Thursday, I swore only about 23 hours and 15 minutes and could not participate in the debate held that day, and it was the government's 2020-2024 programme. where Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem were mentioned many times. I would say that Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem are the most beautiful part of our Republic, the eastern Republic of Croatia, which has all the conditions and preconditions to achieve a pleasant and comfortable life. Of course, there has always been work in Slavonia, so it will be in the future. The Council for Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem introduced by the government of Andrej Plenkovic is the best thing that could have happened to Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem in the past 30 years. Through this Institute of Councils for Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem, money has finally begun to arrive in Slavonia, which will significantly raise the municipal and other infrastructure in our region. I've always pointed out in my speeches, so I'm going to say here, Slavonia doesn't need social assistance, Slavonia needs a partner's help, and that's what we're doing here in this 4th year. achieved in co-operation with the government of the Republic of Croatia, led by Andrej Plenkovic. That's very important. One historical fact that maybe most of you here don't even know. The city of Osijek as the centre of the region of Slavonia, Baranja and Srijema is of course both economic and political and social, of course the university center of the entire region of Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem and I must tell you that in 30. 27 years of age, respectively. The existence of local self-government, HDZ has never led the city of Osijek. Many say that the city of Osijek is stagnating and failing, I absolutely agree with it, I was deputy mayor here, until 3 days ago of Osijek-Baranja County and I think that just the local elections that will come a year have to change the political picture of the city of Osijek, Osijek is a driver of the entire region east, Osijek is a university town with 17 thousand students. It's something we need, it's something we're missing, and we're going to do it right through the program we heard Thursday about by Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic. One thing also, which was often mentioned in the debate now that you had the right to debate Thursday, was just local self-government. The local self-government that we have and have known since 1993, so to this day, it has done a lot of good for small municipalities, small places just in the area of my Slavonia, Baranja and Srijema. So please do not make it easy to say the words cutting local self-government because many will lose what they have so far. In the area of Osijek-Baranja County alone, 4.5 billion kuna projects have been achieved in the past 4 years. We are awaiting major projects, building a new clinical hospital center in Osijek, a new economic centre in Osijek, which will be a centre for the entire region of the east. Small municipalities, like, I'm going to list some of the wolves, Vladislavs, Babina Greda, Bosniaks or any of the municipalities in our area of Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem have made significant progress compared to what they were when they were attached to large cities. That is what we need, we need an institute through which these very small places will be able to look for their place under the sun, through EU projects and funds, and that is what we will seek and what we want to achieve. We can discuss, of course, the amount of deputies and other people sitting in local self-government, but let's not shut down life in places we often talk about here in the Croatian Parliament, and in fact we're doing something exactly the opposite of what these people can accomplish and what they want. Therefore, here, I want Slavonia, Baranja and Srem to be as represented in the government's programme as you have heard from the Prime Minister and I want us to be one-fifth of the parliamentary representatives coming from Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem. To act equally, in favor of those who chose us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u93	Thank you, too. This brings us to the end of the debate of the assembly clubs. So now we're gonna do it in accordance with article. 226.St. 2. to be added to the agenda. I suggest we complete the agenda with eight new points. These are: - Proposal for a Law on the restoration of buildings damaged by an earthquake in the area of the city of Zagreb, Krapina-Zagorje County and Zagreb County, - Report on the activities and results of the Croatian Presidency of the Council of the European Union, - Report by the President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on an extraordinary meeting of the European Council held from 17 to 21 July 2020. - Final proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the Loan Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development in response to the crisis and support for recovery, - Final proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Loan Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the Post-Terrestrial Reconstruction and Strengthening of Public Health preparedness, Final proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Framework Treaty on the Loan between the Republic of Croatia and the Development Bank of the Council of Europe for the project LD 2056 – Support for Measures in the Republic of Croatia, related to the pandemic of Covid-19 — Instrument for the financing of the public sector, - Proposal for a Decision on the Participation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the Peace Operation of the Guardian in the Mediterranean; and the Eighth – Elections, Design and Resolutions, Design and Resolution. The proposal to supplement the agenda has been submitted by electronic means, in accordance with Article. Article 225(4) of the Rules of Procedure of Written Objections at these points of the draft agenda amendment have not been made, i.e. the items submitted have been set out in the agenda of the working part of the first session.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1471	The Honorable President of HS, the esteemed parliamentary representatives and MPs. Honorable Minister, Honorable Vice President, Your Honor. It is my great honor to welcome you again today after this first week which, when we had the opportunity to discuss and present today on behalf of the Government the draft Law on the restoration of buildings damaged by the earthquake in the city of Zagreb, Krapina-Zagorje County and Zagreb County. On Sunday, March 22nd, when the earthquake struck Zagreb and the surrounding area, we all felt the destructive and untapped power of nature. The earthquake that lasted for only 10 seconds took away one young life, Anamaria, whose family once again on behalf of all of us in the government, I have my condolences. Tens of thousands of homes have been damaged, and many of our fellow citizens have no longer been able to live in conditions like before. The earthquake damaged 25 thousand buildings, making private, making public purposes. After the earthquake, more than 6,000 buildings include children's kindergartens, primary schools, secondary schools, colleges, institutes, scientific institutions, cultural institutions are unusable or temporarily unusable. Along with numerous churches and monasteries, the symbol of Zagreb, the cathedral is damaged, and the bristles of the cathedral will long be the most visible scar of the capital of Croatia. It happened that Zagreb became the only European capital hit by this earthquake in the last few decades, and the only one in the world that has seen it happen in the middle of a pandemic of the coronary virus. These were challenging moments and with great gratitude and pride I can say that the citizens of Zagreb responded to these challenges with great heart, solidarity, defence and dignity. All public and city services immediately went into the field, civil protection, firefighters, police, medical services, the Croatian Army and numerous volunteers. Within an hour and a half, the entire state summit met at the National and University Library and co-ordinated their activities. It was immediately clear that the reconstruction of Zagreb would become our main tasks in the years ahead. At the same time, the damage estimated at $86 billion is beyond anything we've ever faced. We've defined our activities in three directions. First, we have prepared emergency and short-term measures to take care of the most vulnerable among our fellow citizens. Secondly, we started making a list of the damages and documentation for the international financial assistance we will need for the reconstruction of Zagreb. And third, and this is the reason for today's discussion of the development of a quality legal framework for the long-standing reconstruction of the City of Zagreb and parts of the two counties. After the earthquake, one of the priorities was to ensure the safety of Zagreb and the inhabitants of all affected surrounding areas in neighbouring counties. We took care of families who were forced to leave their ruined homes, at the Student House in Flower Village. About 800 citizens of Zagreb have been through it so far. Most of them were at one point in May as much as 652, and currently 350 of our fellow citizens are still there. For their accommodation and nutrition so far we've singled out 12.6 million kunas, when I say we've singled out my thoughts on the government through the civil protection headquarters or the MUP. For damaged buildings, but in which, however, in which it is possible to live, we have provided once-in-a-lifetime assistance from 12,000 kunas for the restoration of shelters, chimneys, dental walls and elevators, and for this, as you remember by your decision, or by the decision of the previous one, we have provided the Assembly with a rebalancing of 100 million kunas that were allocated to the budget lines of the Ministry of Construction at the time. In addition, for the purchase of condensation boilers, we have predicted 8,000 kuna and for this purpose we have secured 41 million kunas from the Environmental Protection Fund, which covers the needs of more than 5,000 apartments, up to today 3,190 applications have been received, and it has been solved from more than 1,050. Overall, 141 million kuna plus the costs of the accommodation I was talking about were provided for these first intervention measures. We also offered a longer-term solution and better housing conditions through the financing of a rent for a replacement apartment for all persons whose properties died in the earthquake, which we secured funding until September 2021. To date, 463 applications have been received for the financing of the rent of replacement apartments, so it is an activity that goes through the Ministry of State Property, and now it is fusiond. So far, 346 requirements have been resolved, 255 has the right to finance the rent while 91 requests have been rejected. 121 solutions were issued, 77 were issued for persons who were in the Student House Florist settlement, and a total of 208 people. To date, nearly half a million kunas have been paid for rent. The ministry's resolution so far has received 117 offers from apartment owners to rent 107 of which are complete. According to the City of Zagreb, they also provide solutions to the housing use of those who died in the earthquake. In parallel, we have targeted our efforts to secure the necessary financial resources. Very soon after the earthquake, we began working with the World Bank to produce a document on the assessment of damages so-called. A quick assessment of the damage caused. According to that assessment, the total damage to about 25,000 buildings as I said was 86 billion kuna and this is indeed a large amount, or more than 60% of the state budget. It is important to bear in mind that co-operation with the World Bank was aimed at having an internationally recognised and verified methodology of damage assessment. So that's an important aspect of this process. On the basis of this document, we have secured a $200m loan that we will use to rebuild educational and health institutions. The law, i.e. the law confirming this contract, will be before you Thursday and will be presented by Vice President Maric. We also used the damage assessment as a basis for reporting damage to the European Solidarity Fund, as you know, the European Solidarity Fund serves to support Member States in natural disasters. To respond immediately to that story about the Donor's Conference on Albania and the earthquake that was in Durres and Tirana. Albania, of course, is not a member, so we helped organise such an international donor conference, and more than 50 people died there. Within the EU, these kinds of donor conferences are not in principle organised, but there is also this European Solidarity Fund. I spoke to Commission President Ursula von den Leyen 10 days ago, she announced that we would receive about 89m euros in advance, the following days, at the latest in early August, followed by the price of the tranche, which will be slightly higher, according to our 500m-euro information. The message, of course, is that we have done everything possible to go towards these two sources that are important to us, and we are also talking to the Council of Europe Development Bank, which specializes in funding different projects related to both housing and through the Ministry of Finance, I am sure we will soon provide additional funds for the reconstruction and through this international source. We have worked in parallel on this legal framework which needs to establish the principles and rules for the long-standing organised reconstruction of Zagreb. This job assumed the inclusion of a number of actors from different resolutions in the government to representatives of the City of Zagreb and particularly different professions of builders, architects, urbanists, people who specialize in energy transformation, art historians, conservatives, lawyers, various business associations, chambers, electricians, engineers, people who specialize in chimneys, etc. A large number of actors contributed to the draft of the law, and then gave numerous suggestions to our insistence in public consultation through public consultation. We have since the beginning claimed that such a long-term law must not and cannot be passed in haste and that I stand firm, because this situation is unprecedented. We had a lot of natural disasters, but not those that hit the capital, which hit the cultural and historical core of Zagreb, all that makes the identity of the Croatian capital and this whole law and procedure that will later follow through the programme of measures as well as the reconstruction itself should be done with a high degree of consent, not only of political parties, but of different representatives of a series of professions. And that's why I am grateful to everyone who, through public consultation, gave their suggestions. The pre-condition for organised reconstruction is the provision of the necessary financial resources. So unlike those who have claimed in the past months as soon as the law is passed, I haven't seen any of them have a bag with 86 billion kuna that will automatically be realized for all those who need to rebuild it. I haven't heard from anyone in public shows that there's some kind of magical solution. We will therefore carefully try to combine national funds and international funding sources to implement the reconstruction of the City of Zagreb in the years ahead. There is no instant solution, nor will any of us hear any illusions about how it will all be restored and repaired in a hurry, it is simply not realistic and it is impossible in the end line. But what is important is that this legal framework, which I believe through two readings, is to be adopted, to be quality, to be transparent, to be just, to be enforceable, and to achieve the greatest agreement around it. I said last week that we'd be open to opposition proposals on certain legal proposals, this is like a draft example of a law that I say in advance if there are quality suggestions of opposition we'll accept, though. A few words about the draft law, so it regulates the way and procedure of rebuilding or removing buildings damaged or destroyed in the earthquake, as well as building replacement buildings. The financing of the reconstruction structure from the state budget, the budget of the City of Zagreb, the counties, cities and municipalities by means of the owners or co-owners and by means of other sources is foreseen. As heard from the cabinet session, a very important message was about co-financing the construction reconstruction of private buildings. It is foreseen in terms of 60% of countries, 20% of local self-government units and 20% of owners or co-owners. The reconstruction of public purpose buildings is financed entirely by the owners or founders of public institutions. The renewal will be carried out organised, in accordance with the programmes of measures, defined by the Government's content, on a proposal from the Ministry of Spatial Planning, Construction and State Property, the Reconstruction Fund and the Rehabilitation Expert Council will be established within 30 days of the entry into force of the law. The founders of the fund are the City of Zagreb, Krapinsko-Zagorska and Zagreb County. Different forms of renovation of buildings are defined, depending on whether buildings of public purpose, multi-state buildings, business, residential and business buildings or family houses. The law provides for different levels of reconstruction of damaged buildings, repairing not construction elements, repairing construction, strengthening construction or complete reconstruction. It is important to point out that not individual private apartments or interiors are being renovated but exclusively construction reconstruction of the building. The overall renewal is generally to restore health and education institutions, other public-purpose buildings, and individually protected cultural goods. The reinforcement of the structure is carried out with the aim of increasing seismic resistance. After the renovation of the buildings, it must meet the basic requirements for mechanical resistance and stability, at least to the same extent as before the renovation, and, if possible, a higher degree of resilience, the key to strengthening the construction reconstruction is in line with the specific technical regulation. The owner or co-owners of the building may, in the process of making a decision to rebuild, request the design of the construction of the building or the complete renovation of the building. It is necessary to undertake to pay the difference in costs resulting from this and to provide adequate insurance for the fulfilment of that obligation. Priorities and deadlines of restoration depend on damage to individual buildings and their importance for the wider community and protection as cultural goods. They also depend on the priorities of the city transport organisation and the capacity of the construction sector. For the sake of transparent use of public funds, technical, technical and financial control is also provided for in the production of project documentation. In order to prevent abuses, we have also foreseen a cap on prices for goods used, services provided and works carried out under this law. The law provides for the removal of buildings that have lost mechanical resistance and stability to the extent that they have collapsed or that their restoration is not possible. That's why it takes consent, I insist on all co-owners. If there is no consent of all tenants, the removal shall be carried out in accordance with the regulations governing the inspection supervision of the construction. It is important to point out that compared to the first estimates, a small part of the building will need to be destroyed, which is somewhat encouraging. The law also provides for the construction of replacement family houses when the existing family house is destroyed. Such a replacement house is built on the site of a removed house except in the case of a slide when built in a new location, we had such situations in other parts of the Republic of Croatia. The size of the replacement family house is 55m2 for one or two persons, 70 for 3 or 4, 85 for 5 or more persons. If the house is secured the owner is obliged to transfer the security in favour of the state budget, of course if he uses the renovation. The law also provides for financial assistance and support that can be paid instead of renewal. So, instead of building a replacement family home, the owner of a ruined family home can choose to pay out money for eligible expenses. This support cannot be greater than the estimated building value of a house the owner would be entitled to under this law. The owners or co-owners of a damaged building who, on the basis of a decision to rebuild the building themselves, have the right to financial assistance for the eligible costs of construction reconstruction. In this way, we want to encourage those citizens who can start rebuilding themselves to do so, and according to the criteria, they will be able to achieve financial assistance. The law stipulates that recovery decisions are made by the Ministry of Spatial Planning, Construction and State Property, and all other actions are in the domain of the Fund for Reconstruction. The procedure shall be initiated by building managers or representatives of co-owners or owners. Artists shall be selected on the basis of a public call, the programme of measures shall determine the highest prices of services, works and construction products that can be accepted in the selection of performers. By returning to the renovated apartment or house the owners of the apartments and protected tenants from multi-state buildings and family houses that are being removed will be taken care of, while they are paying for the rent. The owners of apartments and protected rentals The City of Zagreb and the state are obliged to provide temporary accommodation for their costs until they are given an apartment. The first programme of measures must be proposed to the government no later than 30 days from the entry into force of the law, and the government must adopt it within 15 days of the receipt, so the deadlines for action are very predictable. Dear MPs and MPs, what today is our joint responsibility to the government, the City of Zagreb and all stakeholders, and also citizens, is to implement the process in a way that Zagreb, as well as the surrounding places, is safer, but a more comfortable place for housing, work and life. The reconstruction should be an opportunity for a more dynamic development of the City of Zagreb, but also for solving a number of outstanding infrastructure problems so far. It is up to all of us to turn this challenge into a historic opportunity for Zagreb, including for the Republic of Croatia, in an opportunity to make Zagreb a 21st century metropolis that will respond to all the modern needs of its inhabitants. In an opportunity for a new model of development by raising standards, spatial planning and urbanism, as well as energy efficiency and sustainability for the future, in an opportunity for Zagreb to build its growth and development on the better use of all its resources, green industry and new technologies, a knowledge-based economy and the innovation and creativity of its citizens. And, above all, in an opportunity to dedicate ourselves to people so that all citizens and all residents of the affected surrounding places can recover from this plight and look again at their perspective in a brighter way than it is after the consequences of this earthquake. We will discuss which will follow carefully and consider all the suggestions we will get here through the debate and two readings in HS. I believe that it is our common goal to propose a legal framework until the second reading, and to adopt a law that will be enforceable and whose programme of measures will ensure dynamic work to restore all damaged buildings in the Croatian capital because this is what we want to give as our contribution to our fellow citizens. Thank you very much. Now, I'd like to ask Minister Horvat to say a few more words, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1472	I thank the Prime Minister and call on Minister Horvat, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1473	President-in-Office of the Croatian government, fellow ministers and ministers. As we announced, at last week's first session of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, in its new term, we presented a proposal for a Law on the restoration of buildings damaged by the earthquake in the City of Zagreb, Krapina-Zagorje County and Zagreb County. It is one of the key priorities of this government, and we can freely tell the generation venture we need to rebuild as soon as possible, the areas affected by the earthquake on 22 March brought people back to their homes and created a safer environment for all of our citizens. Not repeating what the prime minister of the Croatian government has said, allow me to refer a little more to the body of the law itself and some key specifics, guidelines that are laid down by law. The law regulates the way and procedure of rebuilding or removing buildings damaged or destroyed in a natural disaster declared in the City of Zagreb, Krapina-Zagorska and Zagreb County. Construction of replacement family houses and housing of persons affected by this disaster is arranged. Competent authorities, operating deadlines, as well as other issues related to this, shall also be determined, with a view to protecting human life and human health and animal welfare, protection of property, environmental protection, natural and cultural heritage, and the creation of conditions for the establishment of normal life in the affected area. Once again, I will make a very taxing and exact note of what this law is specifically governed by. The distribution of reconstruction costs, measures and reconstruction activities and their content and production, the establishment and operation of the Expert Council for Reconstruction, the establishment of the City of Zagreb Fund, the Krapina-Zagorje County and Zagreb County, the way of rebuilding damaged buildings, the way of restoring individual protected cultural goods, the way of rebuilding damaged buildings located in the historic urban part of the City of Zagreb, the payment of financial assistance for the restoration of family houses and buildings, the payment of financial assistance for temporary protection of buildings, the implementation of reconstruction of buildings, the removal and construction of buildings, the construction of replacement family houses, housing and temporary accommodation of persons affected by the earthquake, financial assistance for temporary protection of buildings, technical and financing control of projects, the establishment of responsibility of participants in the construction and compensation of family houses, the construction of housing and the temporary accommodation of persons affected by the earthquakes, the whole of which I am aware of the public interest, which I am aware and informed of the information of the interests and information of the interests of the public. What's important is that the law has constructed a professional commission. I find it important to highlight the fact that experts from many areas appointed to the Section for the Construction of this Law have been involved in the drafting of this law. The members of the working group consisted of representatives of the Faculty of Civil Engineering and the Architectural Faculty of the University of Zagreb, Croatian Chamber of Architecture, Croatian Chamber of Engineers of Civil Engineering, Croatian Chambers of Electrical Engineering, Croatian Chambers of Engineering Engineers, HUP, HGK, Association of Architects Zagreb, representatives of the City of Zagreb, Krapina-Zagorje County and Zagreb County, representatives of the Ministry of Culture and State Property, and adviser to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia. In the framework of the work of the section, two working groups were established in charge of the topic of one, the recovery and restoration of chimneys, and the subject of two, the content of the project documentation for the reconstruction of buildings which are also made up of experts from the above. From the ranks of experts, the Government will set up an expert Council for Reconstruction, which will carry out advisory and, where appropriate, other tasks related to professional issues in the implementation of this law. The Council will have presidents and two vice-presidents, and 15 members and 15 of their deputies who must be prominent experts in their professions. The law provides for the establishment of the City of Zagreb, Krapina-Zagorska and Zagreb County, which will carry out professional and other tasks of preparation, organisation and implementation of earthquake-damaged buildings, and monitoring of the programme of reconstruction measures. The founders of the fund are the Republic of Croatia, the City of Zagreb, Krapinsko-Zagorska and Zagreb County. Under this law, existing damaged buildings will be refurbished, public buildings, multi-state buildings, residential business buildings and family houses. The damaged buildings will be restored in 4 ways depending on their purpose and degree of damage. Repair of non-building elements essential for the usability of buildings and specific programmes of measures, repair of construction, strengthening of construction and complete reconstruction, or by a combination of several ways, depending on the assessment of authorised designers. The damaged buildings of public purposes, buildings that are individually protected cultural well-being and business premises in other types of buildings, which are intended to carry out educational or health activities, will be restored by full renewal. The restoration of cultural goods is designed by this law to create a project to rebuild the building for the construction and reconstruction of the building...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1474	Minister, the time has run out, so you will continue on other occasions, of course you have a five-minute possibility between the debates.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1475	I thank the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, wishing and intending to receive constructive proposals through this parliamentary debate and together welcome good, correct, fair and enforceable law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1476	Thank you. Now let's go to replicas, we've got them for Prime Minister 18, the first one's for the esteemed coat of arms. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1477	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Prime Minister, the SDP will support this law in its first reading because we feel it is necessary to bring it forward as soon as possible. And it does not seem your thesis that the law could not have been passed in a shorter period, for example, by Italy in 2009, after the earthquake in Abruzzo, the Rehabilitation Act adopted within 20 days. We could have done the same in Croatia, but we didn't, which is there. This law will be discussed today, we will make concrete remarks and our support in the second reading will depend greatly on whether you are prepared to make these remarks and accept them. And now I'm going to ask you two short questions. First is whether you can assess how long the renovation will take and secondly whether you can be more concrete when you specify the amount or source of the funds for the renovation because the fund and the contract that You mentioned a worth 700 million Euros, and a renewal of 11 billion. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1478	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1479	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Mr. Grbin, when it comes to the duration of the renovation, I don't know. We have an earthquake in Dubrovnik in '79. And we're still rebuilding Dubrovnik, that's what I know. What I know is that this is the biggest earthquake of this magnitude with this much damage in the centre of the city 25-26 000 objects it will last long, but at the very capacity of the construction sector in Croatia, but we will try to make it systematic, meaningful, quality and sustainable and what is most important to endure some do not give God future earthquakes. As for the source of the funds, so these over EUR 500 million are grants, 200 million from the World Bank will be ratified in my guess, one reading on Friday, and the other we will try through the WFO and through... The future generation, there is space and we are currently working on how to put it into the function of rebuilding the City of Zagreb. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]] [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1480	Thank you. We ask only colleagues and colleagues to stick to time, we have only 18 replicas of 10 clubs and 62 individual debates. So that's a record number, so far there's never been this many debates, so please stick to the time limit because we're going to last for a very long time. Comrade Zekanovic, you're second, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1481	Dear Prime Minister, Croatian sovereigns will also support this law, the law can always be better, here we will try through the debate to suggest some things that should be changed. The question is actually similar to a colleague's question. From where this will be financed, we have not received clear information from you, here is a suggestion which is not specifically related to this bill, and is related to the procurement of budgets. There are models when these damages are remedied with new excise duties. We believe that it may be a model that could be practiced here, by excise duties or by some kind of energy or perhaps by tobacco within a short period of time, so that simply as far as we see in the budget, regardless of these EU-promised funds, there will not be enough money. Here's a suggestion.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1482	You want an answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1483	Thank you, dear representative Zekanovic, so I will mention the Council of Europe Development Bank again. So it's a development bank that has its headquarters in Paris and specializes in social activities, it's just her fort, Minister Maric will, of course, also discuss with other international financial institutions to see how they can contribute to this restoration. The key is of course how to put truly huge funds from the WHO and here next generation into the function of rebuilding the City of Zagreb. These are about those available sources of funding. We will still work with the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development which, according to our considerations, will have special credit lines, special credit lines, favourable credit lines that will also allow financing of the city's reconstruction, and part will go from regular funds. We haven't thought about new taxes and taxes for now. But that's an idea, too. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1484	Comrade Selak Rasudic, please. Here, here, these are the replicas they don't stand on the screen.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1485	Dear Prime Minister, my question goes in the direction of transparency. We know that transparency is very important to you, and we could see that your most transparent coalition partner has transparently transcended epidemiological recommendations at a lower level so that he can appear at the vote of confidence to the new government. In this sense, my question concerns this law and the way in which you will ensure transparency in its implementation, in the implementation of the spending of funds, given that we are living in the era of digitisation and whether you will provide this transparency and retroactively in terms not only of the adoption of this law but also of the funds spent but also of the reconstruction of the city of Zagreb. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1486	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1487	Thank you very much, lovely representative Selak Rasdic. When it comes to transparency of funding, the law is exactly like that. It is written that the ministry also has a role that is responsible, that it has a future fund that is responsible, that limited prices, that it will go into public call and for all those involved, whether by designing, or by performing works. It is therefore one of the key tasks and key objectives. That's why we go in peace to a law like this where we want to prevent any abuse. As for what has been so far, all that has been done by public means is transparent and accessible. At the end of the line, all of this can be checked, including data from $12.6 million for the costs of our fellow citizens who are in a student home in Flower Village, as well as all the cleaning costs and all of this initial intervention part of the activity, from rent to building operations. You can check it out and get everything you want.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1488	Thank you. Comrade Troscott, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1489	Dear Prime Minister, my question is focused on something you have already mentioned, and that was the 1979 earthquake in Montenegro that manifested itself, unfortunately for our Dubrovnik and whose recovery we still have today. I would further expand the issue with the whole region, and that was the earthquake in Macedonia. Last year there was an earthquake in Albania, and I think we all remember back in 1996 when our Stone died. My question is this, and if we're going to look from the perspective of the earthquake, the line of molises and L'Aquila in Italy aren't that far away. My question is this, why has never before been seriously taken into account by the government, which is also visible in the government's 2030 strategy where the earthquake has never been mentioned, such as helicopters or other segments of national security? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1490	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1491	As for L'Aquila mentioned by you and another representative earlier, L'Aquila is much smaller than Zagreb, a great victim, a major earthquake, however, much less than Zagreb, such a complex situation you have the capital that hit 5.5 according to Richter, I must admit that I do not remember, at least I have not heard in these few months the data about it and that is why we bring this law to 2 readings after public consultation. As for the earthquake as a topic of phenomena to be dealt with, I was in our Seismological Service and what we want, we want to strengthen it. So, my impression is that it's one service that's extremely important and that we've prepared projects to strengthen both financially and technically, and I hope that people can help us. how to address and prevent these situations in the future. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1492	Comrade Stier, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1493	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, fairness and equality or equality of citizens are the key principles under which this law is prepared, and I think it must, that it must be emphasized here that although justified, the public is primarily focused on the city of Zagreb or perhaps on the city center, that this law also treats citizens of neighbouring counties and so on Zagreb County where more than 500 buildings were damaged by earthquakes. Of course, it is important that this principle of equality is respected both in the implementing acts and in the implementation of this law and in this respect, of course, my personal appeal, and I believe that the expectations of this High House are that the Croatian Government should do the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1494	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1495	Thank you very much, counsel Stier, it will be just like that, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1496	Comrade Cellic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1497	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, you have repeatedly mentioned that 10 seconds of earthquakes have caused damage that will be restored for 10 years. There is one term, technically about returning to the original state, here I would like to touch on the accessibility of buildings for disabled persons, so when building for public use is restored, whether they are owned by the city of Zagreb or the Republic of Croatia, I think it is necessary to take care of the accessibility of buildings for disabled persons, regardless of what is prescribed by the Law on Construction and the Regulation on ensuring accessibility of buildings for disabled persons, I think it would be important for this to be incorporated into this legislative proposal and to be clearly written at least as regards public purpose buildings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1498	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1499	I agree with you, Agent Cellic, we'll take care of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1500	Comrade Bartulica, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1501	I thank Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, it is not disputed that there is much to be done now about the recovery of this great damage, but last Friday we saw how it is managed by the city of Zagreb, meaning worse than many thought. In fact, in a very irresponsible way, and we see constantly new evidence of that. My question regarding the implementation of this bill is mentioned that the scientific institution for construction will be authorised to carry out technical and financial control of projects. I'm interested in what institutions are, what are they, and how will you guarantee that money is transparently approved and spent? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1502	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1503	Like I said, everything will be transparent, technical regulations are the key here. So, what's the point of this renovation? It's not about restoring our former condition, if we go back to our previous condition and don't let God rest until the same earthquake, I'm not sure what the consequences will be. So the point is that the counterquake quality of new renovated buildings is such that they can withstand earthquakes, I hope not as strong as this, that's the whole point. And anything that happens will be transparent and accessible to all particularly parliamentary deputies to control.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1504	My colleagues, the Dark Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1505	Thank you very much. Dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Prime Minister. You have opted for such a little longer process of lawmaking, it has also decided to complete the reconstruction of the City of Zagreb which we absolutely appreciate and we think it is only right and only so can the City of Zagreb be the part that is damaged by the earthquake. Introductoryly, you said about short- and long-term measures, which we also think is good and positive. But we are located 4 months behind the earthquake, for buildings that are damaged in the area of Krapina-Zagorska and Zagreb County we have accurate data, for buildings that are damaged in the City of Zagreb, and for 24.997 buildings, we do not have any information at this time how many of these buildings are public purposes, how many family buildings, how many are residential, how many are residential, how many are residential. In order for quality solutions to be found, we need to know, will this be possible for another reading?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1506	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1507	Thank you very much, Mr. Dark Tarritash. I would first like to thank the services of the City of Zagreb and the Faculty of Civil Engineering, their experts have worked on the list of all these units, buildings, houses that are damaged, many volunteers and they have this list, the Ministry of Construction is in close communication and they can for a second reading if you want to very precisely classify the types of buildings and objects that require reconstruction. Once again, 26,000 is a lot, and you have five apartments or buildings to rebuild, you understand better than I do because you were the minister of this resort, you know how complex it is. Therefore, this will be a very demanding process for which, in my opinion, it is crucial to be a well-defined order of priorities and to be a systematic block renovation of the City of Zagreb and these houses and objects outside... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1508	Jack's colleagues are your turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1509	Thank you. Your Honor, Mr. Prime Minister. This law applies exclusively to the City of Zagreb and to the earthquake that took place on 22.3. My question is why we did not take advantage of this situation and reshape it in a way that we could get a general legal framework for the whole of the Republic of Croatia, what according to the old people's order not to happen because it would thus improve the fulfilment of all basic requirements for construction under the Construction Act and in accordance with the European Directive? That is exactly what the Croatian Chamber of Architects and the Faculty of Architecture warned about in the public debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1510	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1511	Thank you very much. Well, I personally thanks to then Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Construction Mr. Stromar, I had the opportunity to conduct a dialogue with different representatives and chambers and colleges and a number of experts who dealt with this topic and when I saw directly how many different positions, different positions, opinions, experiences, the desire to contribute, the desire to improve at that point I realized that no flash of scream with this law was in question. That meeting with them was crucial for me to personally break that we can't bring this in any way but that we have to go through a public debate, that we have to listen well and drag out what you're doing. This is an unprecedented earthquake, we have such a general legal framework that we would not be able to implement all of this, and that is why we have decided on a special law that is just designed for this situation, that is why we are going with a special law.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1512	Thank you. Comrade Zurovec, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1513	Dear Prime Minister, honourable parliamentary deputies and MPs. For starters, I'd just like to make a little correction, maybe it happened accidentally. So the government, I'm mayor, we're MPs, we're using the money that taxpayers pay us, we don't give anything, so we use it and then we redistribute it later. As for our position, it has already been expressed through the media and through everything, it will be interesting to see who will, of course, support this law, who won't, who probably has private interests and who doesn't. What will be interesting later is how these regulations will manifest and everything else. As for our proposal, I am pleased that you are willing to listen to suggestions and opposition, we will certainly suggest certain things that will ultimately involve much, much less state intervention. I would also point out that I think it is still unfair to use taxpayers' funds in one way and from poorer parts of Croatia to help a relatively richer one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1514	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1515	Thank you very much, Mr. Zurovec. If I understand your position well, he would mean doing nothing but restoring how and how he can. That's obviously your position, I suppose, in the interest of protecting taxpayers. I must admit that we have been in the past, so I can say throughout the term of office before the government and the previous assembly of the Parliament, we have nevertheless realized that the state exists for some reason. People alone cannot protect health security by private initiative, they cannot restore such damage in the capital themselves, at least not systematically, not so organised and not so long-termly planned. So by understanding your position, I would say, most in this assembly who thinks that great harm requires great answers.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1516	Comrade Tomasevic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1517	Thank you. Prime Minister, it has been mentioned that, as a rule, they are not organised in the principle of an international donor conference for EU members, and the fact is that there was a more devastating earthquake in Albania that killed more than 50 people. However, it is also a fact that in Albania, the damage that has taken place is only 10 times less than the damage caused by the earthquake in Zagreb. However, at the international donor conference, it was collected, so on 17 February 850 million EUR means loans and EUR 300 million of grants, we are now somewhere on, if I understand you well, 500 million in grants and 200 million in loans, so it is obvious that we will need some more money that we will probably withdraw from these EUR 22 billion. My question is, how much do you estimate that it will come from these EUR 22 billion funds, and how much from the state budget, and what dynamic it would be to separate it from? of the budget, do you, do most of the sudden [[Intruder: Thank you]] Or evenly distributed? [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1518	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1519	Thank you very much, Agent Tomasevic. I am glad that we have made progress and that we know that there are no these donor conferences for members during the last few months of the debate, it is a good step forward towards facts. As for the damage to Albania, it was much smaller, it was really much, much smaller, but there were more victims, there were victims and there were before the covid, so it's very important to understand the context. Our earthquake takes place at a time when the richest and largest members of the EU daily have between 300 and 400 dead, a very important moment to understand the reflection of solidarity. However, this does not mean that our friends will not help us, that they will not talk to us, many have already shown interest. As for the funds in the coming years through the VFO of the next generation, it is now up to us to adapt the operational programmes, to prepare a recovery plan that will include the City of Zagreb to very much An intelligent and cleverly designed way [[Intruder: Thank you]] And the numbers we'll talk about later, we'll have time for implementation, and I can't say it right now. [[Intruder: Thank you]] [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1520	Comrade Peovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1521	Well, you said you'd be receiving opposition proposals, which I welcome, so the proposal is that the poor who don't have to be fully financed by the construction reconstruction by looking at the property or income censorship, rather than mortgage them on the only real estate. So the foundation of social sensitivity here is not satisfied with this law, the bill, while, on the other hand, those whose premises carry out economic activity here are proposing to finance construction renewal as a whole under the State Support Act. Which are overpriced business entities can only be assumed in view of the business entities to which you have granted the support of the covida or chain of bookies which have achieved several hundred million kunas of profits last year. So it's important that we don't rebuild the walls of the Tedescius and not mortgage the poor.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1522	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1523	Thank you very much, Mr. Peovic. As far as social criteria are concerned, we're open here, it's one of the topics we want to listen to in this debate, I think it's important. There are many people in the center of Zagreb who live either in poverty or on the edge of poverty, and may have valuable, theoretically viewed, properties, but if they are the only ones who can qualify them for rich or wealthy. Therefore, we will make sure that through the debate we find an appropriate solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1524	Now it's the representative of the bush, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1525	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Prime Minister, I will not deal with the law itself, it will professionally process colleagues from the club in their discussions. I'm interested in one thing. You said now that this earthquake in Zagreb in terms of damage was much more devastating than that in Albania. We saw what happened around the flood and what happened about the infrastructure situation. I would like to know if you feel a personal responsibility as HDZ President and as Prime Minister and a party that is more than 12 years old. supports Milan Bandić in the City of Zagreb, which is indirect, what is directly? Do you feel personally responsible for the state of infrastructure in the City of Zagreb? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1526	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1527	Thank you very much, Mr. Grmoy. This is not a matter of personal responsibility. The infrastructure of the City of Zagreb requires further promotion, investment requirements, maintenance requirements, that is not a question I am dealing with as Prime Minister, nor as the president of the HDZ, and this is a topic called "Rehabilitation of the City of Zagreb and Zagreb County and the Krapina-Zagorje County since the earthquake", so when the question arises, I will elaborately answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1528	Now it's Agent Nadj's turn, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1529	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Prime Minister, you said the reconstruction of Zagreb was the main task of this government, I assume it was also the previous government. My question is, why did you allow the bickering between former Minister Štromar and the Mayor of the City of Zagreb, Mr Bandic, about the making of the law itself, and there were only two meetings in the working group in which the representatives of the City of Zagreb were present on 31 March and 7 April, as stated in the draft draft law that was in your government? That's why she's been here four months since the earthquake, and we're only discussing the bill today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1530	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1531	Thank you very much, esteemed MP. There wasn't a fight, there was a different attitude. There were different views and within different cabinets in the government. We had a situation that had three parallel crises. We had Covid-19 dealing with a part of the government, we had a situation that we had to find the financial resources which, for the functioning of the public service and the general budgeting, and also the assistance of the private sector, which the second part of the government was in charge of, and we had the third situation of March 22nd of 6th and a half in the morning, this kind of earthquake he was in charge of, I'll say freely, part 3rd of the government. And we still had the city of Zagreb and all possible professional associations, chambers that were supposed to agree. You see, this law went pretty well. And that's why it took time. and public counselling. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1532	Comrade Bedekovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1533	Thank you very much, Mr. Prime Minister. The earthquake that hit Zagreb is certainly, we will agree, an unprecedented event at the time of the Covida-19 pandemic and certainly had long-term consequences and has, not only on the citizens of Zagreb but also on the citizens of Zagreb and Krapina-Zagorje County and I have the need to stress that the government has approached the system and thought-out way, primarily through emergency measures to help citizens, those short-term measures that you have explained, through the making of a list of damages, and then through the making and proposal of a design, therefore, quality law and certainly we must be aware of the fact that there is no immediate solution. And that is why the law must not be passed even in a hurry, it has passed a public consultation, I will remind you, where it has already been accepted at public consultation a series of remarks and equally, two readings through two parliamentary debates They're opening up a promotional space. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1534	Okay. Then let's go to the next line, dear Vice President Ostojić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1535	... Your first government and your strategic partner Milan Bandic. [[Specially enabled.]] But wisely, of course, you've forgotten what doesn't suit you. For example, 245m euros from the last financial period that you could use to reduce the risk of disasters. Of these 245 million euros per publicly available data, you used several percent. And you got a good answer to the MP a little while ago, and the state exists for a reason. That's right. With a reason to care for security, among other things, the withdrawal of EU funds. So my question to you. Indeed, as prime minister of our country, do you feel responsible that we have so little use of the funds, that we have endangered the floods, for example, the Croatian Fire Department, there is our Ante Sanader, using minimal funds. So that's the key question. Why didn't you use it, and why did you endanger our country's security?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1536	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1537	Thank you very much, MP Ostojić, you've been creative in the campaign, and now this kind of creativity that we've put at risk the security of the state, it's now going beyond the kind of imagination we've been listening to during the two weeks of the campaign, but okay. As far as EU funds are concerned, the absorption data during our term of office are such that we are the financial framework that has lasted since '14. By the '20s, I'll remind you, we took over the government in October 2016 with 9% contracted and 1% paid. Today we're at 97% agreed, 97% paid 37. 97 and 37, and we started less than 4 years ago. So if we've made a step somewhere... What we now know and what we are more stalking, we are how to make better use of these funds because we still have to spend what we have left of this financial framework, coming up with a new 22 [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] billions of euros. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] And you will help us creatively.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1538	Now it's time for a respected colleague of Bencic's, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1539	Dear Prime Minister, we have a question concerning the issue also, parts relating to the setting of a right to multi-state buildings in case co-owners do not ensure 20% co-financing until the start of the reconstruction. So, apart from this problem that has already been highlighted by my colleagues from the club, my colleague Peovic, and as regards property censorship and to install certain social criteria for people who can't secure it, there is another problem that we highlighted yesterday, but unfortunately your Secretary of State, Uhlir, rejected it, which is that this article is interpreted in a way that the law in multi-state buildings will be placed on the whole building, which means that you co-owners will be solid debtors. We must note that it opens the way and conflicts and pressures on those co-owners who will not be able to pay that 20%, if all other co-owners will also, have a burden on their property that will not be able to sell your apartments. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Please answer that question.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1540	/Intruder: Here's the answer./...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1541	Ready to install it into the law differently.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1542	... Thank you very much, Mr. Bencic. [[Specially enabled.]] I understand the point of this question, it's less important whether it's a hostage or not. It is important whether such an extraordinary situation will lead us to some real estate speculators buying favorably apartments from those who are in need, poor or here, now I get the circumstances to leave the building, the apartment, the house, where they have lived their whole lives. And that's the job of the state. So let's make the law so it doesn't happen. Here, I sign it first. Let's find a legal solution that will prevent speculation and some kind of luxuriant real-estate business in a human accident. I'll sign it. We'll find a formula together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1543	And the last replica, colleague Brumnic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1544	Your Honor, Mr. Prime Minister, you are in your debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1545	Please, colleagues and colleagues, let the representative speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1546	In your discussion, you mentioned two things that I asked last night as decided as questions on the board, one is the energy reconstruction of buildings, we know that this state is instigating the fact that the building is energy-renovation. At the time, I was directly responsible for not planning an energy reconstruction of buildings that were not public property. You said otherwise in your debate. And the second part is just the point of repairing the structure, and then allowing citizens to if they want a better quality solution to pay for it themselves. If there is a better solution or solution that would satisfy the building's static, then it would be logical for the state to make it from the beginning rather than ask the citizens for additional funding. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1547	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1548	Thank you very much, Representative Brumnic. I didn't really understand this last category of yours. I don't understand what you're trying to tell me, but we'll talk about it a little later, but I didn't realize maybe because of the mask, but I didn't hear you well, so I can't even answer what you said. As for energy recovery, energy recovery is one of the key projects that has been going on for years, which not only saves energy consumption but represents a significant part of investment in numerous buildings, houses throughout Croatia. If this is possible, and I am now, of course, alluding to these funds that are ahead of us for the next seven years as one of the possible runways for hiring funds that will help rebuild the City of Zagreb, houses, apartments, then I think it should be examined as a possibility, and this second you will tell me later because I didn't understand what you're talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1549	We have one replica of Minister Horvat's presentation, it's a respected representative, Strick. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1550	Ministers, you most often use the terms of the profession, experts, working group, and among other things in the law of Article 11, the establishment of expert advice for reconstruction, which would be made by representatives of the Faculty of Civil Engineering of Zagreb, the Faculty of Architecture, the Croatian Chamber of Engineering of Architecture, Croatian Chambers of Engineering, Croatian Chambers of Engineering, Croatian Chambers of Electrical Engineering, Croatian Chamber of Economics, Croatian Association of Employers, Croatian Association of Construction Engineers, Association of Architects of Zagreb, Croatian Engineering Union, Institute of Art History, City Institute for the Protection of Cultural and Nature of the City of Zagreb and the Foundation for Reconstruction of the City of Zagreb, Krapin-Zagorje County and Zagreb County, respectively. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1551	Time's up.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1552	So I guess the question should have been said why such a wide range of professions were included in this expert commission. It is precisely because of its key advisory effect because we have said that the complete operation will be moved and transformed into the fund, and the expert commission will be the advisory body and the fund itself, as well as the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and what was in the structure of the issue from just a moment ago, that there is a table so-called. The euro code, this table has certain gradities, I don't think it makes sense at this point to take the largest anti-quake graduation that should be applied in the reconstruction of the City of Zagreb in terms of anti-quake protection, if the owner's wishes and intentions are to be used and that euro at grade 9 will not be prevented. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1553	Thank you. This is what we came to the end of the replica, so now I'm going to ask the committee's rapporteurs if they want to take the floor? The Legislative Committee, the Committee on Construction and Spatial Planning, nothing, then I'm opening a debate. We have like I said 10 clubs and 62 individual debates. The first is the Association of MPs of the Homeland Movement and the Honorable Representative Zlatko Hasanbegovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1554	Dear President of the Assembly, Government, Ministers, Assembly as always, let's get this out of this booth. On March 22nd, the city of Zagreb was hit by a devastating earthquake that caused catastrophic damage, but not only in the cultural historical core, and unfortunately the loss of forgetting a young life. We have before us the task of finding the best legal solution to the restoration. The prerequisite for this, apart from the political will of course in this assembly, is the answer to the key question that is, why the September 22nd earthquake had such disastrous consequences in damages that are estimated to be minimal to EUR 11.5 billion. Of course, part of the answer lies in geophysical seismologically unpredictable reasons that make people powerless before an earthquake, and the debate of responsibility for this part of the damage immeasurable. In all the former monthly, political, parapolitical and theoretical expert discussions, more or less over-exploited the second part of the answer to the key question why the earthquake had just such catastrophic consequences in the downtown core, and insignificantly less independent of its strength that would in itself be inevitable. Without a clear answer to that question and his public political testimony which remains in the shadow of the one side of the state's impotence, and on the other hand, the infertile debates of any law adopted in this assembly will remain permanent. The answer to this key question is why this extent of damage, rather than significantly smaller, lies in the area of seismological expertise, but what we can call conveniently state political and social geophysics and seismology. So, the catastrophic damage resulting from the March 22, 2020 earthquake is the ultimate epilogue of each other due to the catastrophic social political damage, Dubrovnikers would say large cherry with epicenters in Zagreb, let's be honest on May 8, 1945. What are the characteristics and lasting consequences for the centre of Zagreb, and the social political Osmobean large cherries with different post-communist amplitudes to this day? Since May 1945, Yugoslav communists have since filled the caves, mines and anti-tank trenches since May 1945 have set out with a second phase of revolution aimed at liquidating civil society, all its founding institutions, including through robbery, conveniently called nationalization of the confiscation of private ownership and deposing of the house of the ownership layer whose business construction and social effort stood on the basis of the fact that the City of Zagreb, according to its historical core, was the subject of this law of authentic civil and national metropolis and before so on. Liberation on May 8, '45. After the implementation of the anti-owned revolutionary procedure, the Zagreb historical core was converted into a half-century engineering term in the building and construction sense, deposed the ghetto and the tower left to social care and destruction, which, along with some families of the original owner, had emigrated the roads so-called. Household rights dependants of the regime of different degrees from the ranks that have significantly recruited our post communists, for example from the last convocation of the CKSKH so-called. urban salon, activist and pseudo subversive cultural antifa left. The left which today is active in the front lines of the fight for full renewal, neglecting the fact that the basis for the resulting damage from the earthquake, which was debated both in the spiritual and in the ownership and in the construction-engineering sense, has been laid by Yugoslav communism, which is permanently inspired by the modern post of communist, management-urbanist-owned interference that Zagreb, in particular its centre, remains buried. So what are the basic issues that need to be regulated by this law, and what is its strategic and ultimate objective? Is the aim of this law coloquial construction said to be the patching of earthquake-damaged buildings and the palitative reconstruction to pre-quake levels, and some removal of permanently damaged buildings with retention and cosmetically modified bureaucratic procedures, or is the objective of complete urban reconstruction and of achieving mechanical resistance and stability in the earthquake of damaged buildings above the level they had before the earthquake, including the promotion and procedural relief of upgrade and construction at the site of the damaged buildings being replaced by the model of Vienna, Paris or Prague? The expression of this doubt can also be answered by a rhetorical question that is not only rhetorical, is this law as lex spacialis at all necessary, and whether, given the fundamental issues that are being regulated by this legislative proposal and the objectives set, instead of having damaged private owners and citizens for months because of pre-election calculations, it is in suspense with the same effect and the restoration reach that it could access the most ordinary novel of the existing Construction Act, since the Construction Act quite solidly regulates what we call a patching or reconstruction to the level of the situation before the earthquake? In the preamble of the legislative proposal, we are taught that earthquakes belong to a group of natural dangers which, of course, we did not know, are entirely unpredictable by probability and intensity, and then I quote, "The law provides for the construction of projects that must be built so that the building meets the basic requirements for mechanical resistance and stability at least the same as before the renovation," this translated does not mean the legal obligation of full reconstruction but the patching of the building... the earthquake resistance that they had before the earthquake, which would then collapse in the first subsequent earthquake, of course with the same consequences. Instead of strengthening the mechanical resistance and stability and strengthening the structure prescribed as a legal obligation, and not only as a possibility, translated from the engineering-projective target of the language to the damaged owner of the layik, the damaged know what I'm talking about, the state and the city would be generous, about this key issue of financing somewhat later, with 80%, 60+20 and in a vague time co-financed only for example building bricks on a collapsed non-structured wall without the obligation to further entrenched with ordinary concrete doubles because it naturally crosses the level of mechanical resistance and stability before the earthquake itself. The second element of the law which indicates that, basically, as the only objective laid down, only building patchwork, rather than a complete restoration with a clear new vision and economic-business and social development of the city, which can turn the result of a tragedy earthquake into an incentive and opportunity, is the absence from the subject matter and the objective of the law. 1st of these parts, the way and the renewal of damaged buildings and the text which would allow the very logic of this law to be removed except for the removal of damaged buildings with the saying and possibility and incentive to upgrade and build replacement buildings precisely for the purpose of full urban reconstruction, which, according to the existing legal framework prescribed by construction, spatial planning and ownership, and the application of lifeless terror, etc. Preservatory guidelines de facto disabled instead of encouraging and stimulating so-called. In the light of all taxpayers, this law should be the development point of the turning point for the City of Zagreb, especially its frozen historic urban unit, which can only be revived by building new better and safer replacement buildings with more floors and apartments on the same floor, thus paying off the reconstruction without government debt which cannot be built by state intervention but only by harmonising not speculant but legitimate business and investment not speculant interest on the one hand, and the property interest damaged by the earthquake on the other hand. There is also an important and even key issue of sources and ways of financing the implementation of this law, which includes the question of the scope of state aid to private owners whose property is damaged in the earthquake. Here, it must be clear and inexplicable to the estimated EUR 11.5 billion needed for the purpose of restoring Zagreb alone, there will be no and will not be in the foreseeable future, who claims to deceive the public for the purpose of cheap politics and pre-election calculations unless the project of renewal and implementation of the law is imagined as a 100-year commitment to the restoration of the castle of Zenda in which people do not live, and not as a project of a relatively fast renewal of the city as living social tissue, in this sense I have the clear title of the great socio-identical study of my retired Institute colleague Ivan Rogić whose title is not "who is Zagreb" but "who is Zagreb" but the priority of the state-funded rush not corrupt and quality renewal should be public institutions, hospitals and universities, museums and colleges, all of which as a public good use of all citizens, because it is an illusion that the state which is not able to quickly and qualityly restore effective public property can be effective. Mr. Plenkovic, after being hirotonized or handled under known circumstances as his political mission, marked the suppression of the influence of pulsism and demagogy in Croatian political life. The legislative pre-election proposal on state subsidisation and funding of private property is no less than 80% in cheap populistism and activist pre-election demagogy has come from, our colleagues from the We can and the Workers' Front for two reasons. First, because that money is gone, and there will be no money. And secondly, when going through the impasse of this bill and decrypting the engineering meta language, it is clear that these promised 80% do not apply to the whole restoration but only to the patching and do not give God the same earthquake when owners wake up or do not wake up with a chimney and wall in bed, therefore, not what we call a static renewal. The main constitutional political and ethical and social question is whether and to what extent should all Croatian taxpayers co-finance the restoration of damaged private ownership in the historic core of the City of Zagreb, which is undoubtedly among the most expensive in the Croatian state? The answer to that question is not simple and arises, if it is not about politics and demagogy, from the principle of the world-wide world-wide and if you want ideological attitude. Owners of damaged assets, at least a dozen of those with whom I have spoken and who have not come to their property either by means of a transitional mixing, or by a cheaper purchase of alien property, but by inheritance or honest work, and who do not expect the state to give them money, especially if it would be predictable to mean that at least the next 3 or 5 years. Live without warm water and heating. Those who have been able to rebuild the lower level of this law have already carried out themselves at no time expecting state support. Owners who are known, who are aware that ownership is other than the source of rights, the choice of permanent responsibilities does not want the CNS's cheapies so-called. The highest prices followed by the manipulation of extra-consumptive work fees, endless bureaucratic tortures, pseudoconservatory terror, public procurement, court architects and engineers, barren advices, fund experts, so the process that will not end for their lives. One solution is called simply subsidized interest on long-term interest-free loans, not for patching and so on. The reconstruction is already a complete reconstruction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1555	Thank you very much. I think I've seen a breach of the Rules of Procedure, a respected representative of Posavec-Krivec. What was hurt in the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1556	Thank you, Vice President. The esteemed colleague Hasanbegovic has injured the Rules of Procedure, Art. 14. which speaks of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and the obligations and rights of our representatives. All a few days ago, the distinguished representative swore here at HS, and today he said that on behalf of the club, it was May 8, 1945. There was a so-called Liberation of the City of Zagreb. So, he has spoken a lie that does not conform to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1557	My colleague Posavec-Krivec, it was not a violation of the Rules of Procedure, and I ask you that things you disagree with do not declare the violations of the Rules of Procedure and abuse that institution, it is known very precisely what is the violation of the Rules of Procedure, which is a different position. Of course, we are parliament, there will be completely different views on the same things, and that is precisely democracy. But don't abuse the Rules of Procedure, please. That's nice, please. Comrade Hasanbegovic, let's stop this discussion, shall we? No, don't answer, you'll get a warning. We will go to the next debate on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, the time will be shared by the respected representative Siniša Hajdaš Doncic and the esteemed representative,... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1558	Thank you very much, Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen. So, I will quote for the start of Prime Minister Plenkovic who said it was not the goal of returning through this law to its former state. So that with me, I'm afraid, is causing one of those... One complete confusion. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because when we enter, therefore not only into the philosophical-social component of this law, these are primarily two basic postulates, which is actually the relationship between the poor and the rich and the relationship of the responsible and the irresponsible. So this relationship of the responsible and irresponsible can be immediately unwarranted. In what way? Look, even if all the people had secured their apartments and houses in insurance companies, the earthquake would have made the insurance company collapse, so it couldn't pay off. So it absolutely in this public debate in this discourse is out of the question. Other relationships are rich and poor. It does not mean that if people live in the center of the city of Zagreb or if they live in part of Zagreb or Krapina-Zagorje County, if they have one real estate, they are rich. So what through some social networks, even some parliamentary representatives are therefore pushing into this room, so that people should suffer themselves harm or the consequences of earthquake damage, do not speak well of this society. So this society has to be solidarity, that's why there's a state, and that's why there's a society, because now I'm going to say something about the law itself. Which is good, so we have something to commend. So it's good that the law is much more transparent, that it's much more transparent than that of its falsic first version, and it's also good that the law provides for the establishment of the Fund for Reconstruction, so whose basic task is likely to be to find certain funds. Now I'm going to tell you what's questionable to me here. So, look, the rate of funding is 60% questionable, so I think it's direct to you, so Mr. Plenkovic's preparation for the next local elections, so, what I suggest is, if we suggest a debate, maybe that percentage should be reduced to 40%, and then 20% through HBOR's grants to raise above the standard, if we don't want to go back to the old ones. What does "overstandard" mean? Overstandard means both construction and energy super standard. Well, then that may be, someone even mentioned there from the parliamentary representatives in the previous debate, it may also be a trap of some revolving fund that would then be used throughout Croatia, so it is one group of ideas, but it gives one fairer dimension to this whole story and what is also, questionable, therefore, and that is what Mr. Plenkovic likes to mention, so that is relying on EU funds. The EU funds are not grants, and what we will get, we will eventually return it, we will return it and now through the budget, we will return it through future fees. What's wrong with that? So, I don't see a vision, I don't see urbanism, I don't see that first there should have been a passport, yard buildings, traffic, green infrastructure, and actually, through this first part of the law, I don't see the future identity of the city of Zagreb. And what affects me most personally, so Croatia is also a signator and a European Green Agreement, which means what it requires, climate neutral Europe by 2050, we signed and ratified the Paris Agreement, so we limit the rise in temperature to 1.5 compared to pre-industrial times, and what we do, we actually, to you. The government co-finances condensation boilers. Now, what are condensation boilers? Let me just point out that the Netherlands has banned them from installing heaters since 2021, and the UK has stopped selling them in 2025, and Spain has passed the law, so there is a left government there, that is, that is, that is, that prohibits all investments in gas, coal and oil. Finally, this part of my exposure, therefore, in my opinion, the law does not stimulate enough complete renewal, either spatially or economically or socially. Co-owners and owners are no longer encouraged to step forward and not open up the idea of above standard. Of course there is a dispute here and an unequal treatment of the property of the family house, apartments in multi-state buildings regarding some replacement construction. A little economic numbers, therefore, are estimated to be damage from the 86 billion kuna earthquake, and this law tells you about 42 billion kunas. So half is missing somewhere. It cannot be half-reliant solely on EU funds. And lastly, I'm going to say, so before the entire preliminary budget, so real renewal, so we're passing the law. That's how we built the highways. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1559	Now the honourable representative Brumnic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1560	Dear Vice-President, respected ministers, respected fellow MPs and MPs. I come from the city of Zagreb and what is crucial to say, this city did not hit the earthquake for the first time, it hit him, except 4 months ago and 1880. It was a shame that Austro-Ugarland then took 4 days to react and start rebuilding Zagreb and help the citizens, and 140 years later, 4 months later, we had to start discussing this law, while 20 thousand of our fellow citizens couldn't live in their apartments and houses. I don't know about you, but I am ashamed of the work of the last government and the previous parliament, which most of them were then made by HDZ and the mayor of Zagreb, Milan Bandic, who were disbanded before they sent the law into debate or into adoption. What I sincerely hope, I hope, is that I will not be ashamed of this call by the Parliament, that we will have enough wisdom and humanity to bring laws in time and in favour of the citizens of the City of Zagreb. 140 years ago, a man showed us what it means to love Zagreb and Zagreb, it was August Shenoa, then as a city senator helping fellow citizens after the earthquake got lung inflammation and actually paid the highest price. Take a walk today with Vlaško and see how the citizens of the City of Zagreb remember Augusta Shenou and his victim, and then wonder how they will remember Andrej Plenkovic and Milan Bandic. What are we talking about today? We're talking about a political class led by people who can't make decisions, so we're waiting for four months who didn't want to sacrifice anything and who won't sacrifice anything. A strong earthquake that took place in the town of Zagreb in seconds divides the lives of people affected by an earthquake at a time before and after. After the few seconds of March 22, nothing was the same and the adaptation of the people who experienced the earthquake would be traumatic and difficult for many. What's our mission? Our mission is to make sure she's not insurmountable. The aim of each city or state government should be to make life easier to adapt after the earthquake. What's the point of the state in this case? She should be in the service of her citizens and their needs. And who does the government serve today? I have to admit, it's very hard to find an answer to that question. The very proposal of the Law on the recovery of severe earthquakes raises a fundamental question, does this authority take care of the people, or does it care about the interests of capital and individuals? At one point, the prime minister said he would like to find a solution in which he would not allow mixing or using good investment opportunities as some call it. And I welcome that, I welcome that this law finds ways to help people who have money problems needed to rebuild their facilities. As complex as this matter of the law is, one key question is asked, one of the colleagues said it in the replica, and the debate also mentioned, how long will it take, or who will pay? I will take the example of the City of Zagreb here precisely because there is a Minister of Finance who has made it possible for the City of Zagreb to be overly in charge today, completely inequitable and in some way incompetent to participate in this project, and practically this law is passed for the City of Zagreb. The total cost of reconstruction is between 45 billion and 90 billion kuna. The key question arises, 20% should be provided by local self-government units, 20% in the case of the City of Zagreb if more than 80 billion is done then it is 16 billion. The city of Zagreb has a budget of 7 billion, and there is no 100 million at this time at the annual level. And I'm asking the Minister here a question that allowed it, in which way he means to ensure that the City of Zagreb has its 20% or that it will take over the state. The other day we witnessed the impact of this earthquake on the rest of the infrastructure in the City of Zagreb, where after years of care, no one found time to check what happened to the infrastructure or to check whether what crashed in the City of Zagreb had been overrun by the drain, and that is the key problem? After we had an earthquake in the center of Zagreb, after the chimneys collapsed, after it fell to the ground, after the shot was taken, everything that fell into the drains was not recovered. The law itself was set very in principle, as if someone had decided that we would have a renewal and after that wrote a law in which we would have a renewal. Minister Horvat is practically at one point and admitted because the law itself is an undeveloped framework, as he said, and we will bring in sublegal acts to predefine all of this. The prime minister here and set deadlines today, these deadlines are 30 and 15 days. I really hope that until the second reading we in this assembly will know what these should be the criteria and conditions under which everything will be renewed. Because of the citizens affected by the earthquake, I hope that the government will show enough hearing and wisdom that in its proposals that are being made here and that are yet to be said. And now a few grudges. The first problem, the law does not finance the full restoration of housing, but only finance the reconstruction of the construction, and for all the following reinforcements to level 3 and 4 where 4 is a complete renewal, the legislator asks the owners to ensure the difference. I think everyone is aware that it doesn't make sense because if you're going to resuscitate the first part where the cost is 20% or 30% to add 80% more on your own afterwards, it's not what this government should be interested in, nor this country. Another problem that arises is the co-ownership of real estate. So the deal about co-owners about the additional.../incomprehensible/... building is the Property Act. It's the job of an extraordinary administration, and this law stipulates that restoring it is a business of regular administration. It's about the ones who run the apartment buildings. The law did not define whether the hostage right would burden all co-owners or the entire building, the minister even responded on the board yesterday in this way, even though after that he gave a different answer so I have to admit I don't know what their intensity is. What should have been the intensity of this law, which is to prevent any possible damage resulting from seismic activities in the City of Zagreb. Discriminate co-owners of multi-state buildings compared to co-owners of family houses where, in fact, family houses do not come from any law, but defined by this law, where he defined that this family house is a building of up to 600 m2 which has 3 units of which only one must be residential. I'm asking you, what's this family house for? You have family houses with 1 residential unit larger than what we say or have smaller ones here in Zagreb called them urban villas, buildings in which you have 5, 6, 7 apartments, and they do not have 600 m2. Then the problem of defining an apartment of the proper size where we will place our fellow citizens, which is appropriate to the government, and what is appropriate to citizens? I see that I'm coming to an end, the rest I have to say then I'll try in an individual debate, but let's remember the purpose of the law should be quick, fair and above all quality renewal. I hope the minister and prime minister will take into account those good proposals and to respect the remarks. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1561	The next club of MPs will be that of the Most Independent Lists, and time will be shared by the respected representative Marija Selak Rasudić and the respected representative of Zvonimir Troscott. First respected representative Selak Rasdic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1562	Dear MPs and representatives of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Vice-President of the Assembly, since our time is limited, and that I have given some reference to the law itself on behalf of the Most Club, and earlier this time we will focus on three things. The first thing is what we find particularly problematic in this bill of law, or what concerns us most. The other thing is the way we think that the restoration needs to be approached, and that's the proactive thing I've talked about before. And the third thing our fellow Troscott is going to talk about is what our citizens are most interested in, and that's the financial aspect of the state as well, but also on the part of individual citizens who are going to have to invest their resources in this reconstruction. So, I'm sorry that we have to talk so much about the transparency that has already been so much out of the way that people literally get into their ears. However, neither this law nor many laws before it, nor even this permanent creation of new laws which are as defined as this law itself, but all that is important for this law is a programme of measures to be taken by the Government so that we do not have a concrete solution opens another key issue of transparency. Transparency in this law interests us on several levels. The first question is that nothing is said about the acquisition of funds or the control of the spending of funds. This will be the main issue of all potential donors or financiers. We believe that the general government should only be co-financed by the damage caused by this earthquake and that the building was properly maintained. The law leaves some possibility that the state will be able to look for those who have not built quality buildings, but not so much about their proper maintenance. The question of how to implement, negotiate and spend money in reconstruction is much more important than the technical issues of designing and implementing resolutions. We therefore expect that this transparency can be achieved beyond what is prescribed by this law, which is the usual submission of the report to the assembly at a half-yearly or annual level. We live in a time of digitisation, we expect a broad consensus on this law and that all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia participate in the reconstruction, so the least that can be done for them is that the funds they spend are publicly available at this time of digitisation. Another problem of transparency concerns all that this law will allow to be built. It does not go unfortunately in the direction of that proactiveity that I will talk about later, but it goes in the direction of some new construction, for example, of an emergency building for temporary accommodation that is allowed by this law. This is what we find pointless spending of public money that reopens space for different forms of malfeasance and manipulation because we will have to reopen a whole field of investor search and building buildings that will serve only for temporary accommodation, and then later have to be re-purposed. That transparency that we're talking about here right now wouldn't be so much of a subject if it wasn't such a bad experience years ago. This transparency here is not only about how all Croatian citizens will now participate in the management and spending of funds, but also about all the spending of the funds that took place before, and for the purpose of restoring Zagreb from the damage caused by the earthquake. So we expect the application of this transparency and retroactively. The second thing I want to talk about and that I started on the board, and I continued in the morning in free exposure to what I did with the city. So the main problem is the money's gone. We can call on a country that will give its 60% and temporarily ignore that fact, but when we talk about how it will raise funds then we talk about millions instead of billions, so we're back to EU funds and we're spinning around in a circle where we ignore what we're going to do, which is that the consequences of such borrowing will all be felt. So, what to do. When I asked the committee whether we could approach this pro-actively in the sense that the city would wake up its sleeping resources, and in some ways it would also be caught up with unsettled property-legal relations because it would eventually enter into ownership by putting a mortgage on apartments or the entire building in case there was not sufficient money in the reserve to subsidise the part of this refurbishment prescribed by law, which is 20%. I got the answer that it's not possible to perform proactively, so I'm going to be specific about what's in the public space, but the visionary articulation of professor. Galic, I'm talking about the possibilities to take advantage of the attics that now because of these unresolved relationships don't belong to anyone, I'm talking about the possibility of even taking a step further, that on buildings where it is possible to build floors and thus they become self-sustainable in terms of self-financing of their recovery, because let's be realistic this is the only way. The answer I received was to avoid the answer itself or to conclude that it was not possible for different reasons. First of all, not all buildings are in such a situation as to have some potential capital, the second question is, of course, static possibilities, whether they can be upgraded at all. They're not all, but they are some and what they are. When we finally realize that we can't just moan over our destiny, but that our failures and earthquakes must also turn into our potentials. This is indeed an opportunity to enable the profession to spread creatively, to make an offer, to give its vision of Zagreb for the 21st century where we will finally all be able to profit, but not only at the level of what is staticly sustainable, but also of the eye comfortable, but at the level that we can even finance this restoration because what is not mentioned in the public discourse, and what is very important is the fact that when it comes to what this restoration will finance, and we have already said this is just the construction part that is not the apartment and that will not be completely renewed especially for those citizens who cannot afford it themselves, because we have discussed the criteria, the social criteria that will provide the citizens who are the only roof above their heads, is the fact that no one will be able to renew only to the existing state of mind in terms of the static sustainability of the building, because this is what was ruined by this earthquake. So any of you, having a dream, would once again agree to an investment in money solely to return to an equally dangerous state whose devastating consequences have already been felt before. Of course, people who want to stay in their apartments will have to access that part of the money guaranteed by the state will not be enough, but will have to invest that the building meets the seismological regulations for 2020. So it's another extra cost other than the internal arrangement now and urgently located in front of the owners of the apartments. Because of all of this, the club of representatives of MOST, and also the trail of the statement issued this morning by the Association of Architects of Zagreb, calling for the construction of urban reconstruction, will stand with those who will approach this issue proactively and visionaryly, will open a public debate on what kind of city we want, and on the trail of recent disasters we have witnessed I will conclude this debate with the fact that we do not want Zagreb which will not invest in the water supply to be the Pannonian Sea, but we want Zagreb that is going to be a small America. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1563	The Honorable representative of Zvonimir Troscott will continue, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1564	Dear Vice-President of the Assembly, distinguished MPs and MPs and all of our citizens of the Republic of Croatia who look at us through the screen. A small one, just a bit of a reflection on the question I referred to our prime minister, of course he didn't answer my question, but just for the record here, I talked to the construction and architecture experts. What I was told was that in the debates they realized that the earthquake had never been taken seriously as a question, a serious issue of national security until this earthquake, which we believe is unfortunate because this region is exposed to earthquakes and we cited examples of both Albania and Macedonia and Montenegro in 1979 where Dubrovnik and our Stone died in 1996, and the Italian air line is here in the neighborhood, so that this earthquake was never seriously considered. As far as the financing itself is concerned, what we consider in the club, which was proposed by the government's rent, we find it unsustainable in model 60, 20, 20. So, if we look at 60% of the 11 billion estimated costs, it's about 50 billion kuna or 6.6 billion euros, and the Croatian government, according to what I've had to hear here, has some EUR 700 million ready, which means there are some 8 times missing, and you'll see from the exposure that Zagreb and our citizens are not liquid for this kind of enterprise. I will start with Zagreb, so this is how news articles from back in 2007 remind us of the long-standing signing of the euro bonds by Mr. Bandic, Mr. Ljubic, Mr. Mato Churchvenac was involved in this whole transaction where we all sort of celebrated the signing of bonds in the German investment bank, Deutschebank in London, where we were in debt with EUR 300 million and where investors and investment bankers were convinced that this money would be invested and exclusively spent to expand gas infrastructure, water supply and waste networks and infrastructure. For further discussion, it is very important to stress that this debt has never been paid and recovered but has been reprogrammed, so it is 2017. This debt closed with a new debt from the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and this raises the question of what that money has been spent on in those last 13 years. Because from the example of Trnje that we had the opportunity to watch last weekend is certainly not on a water supply and waste network infrastructure where we had the opportunity to see our citizens in Trnje that they were, not only swimming but unfortunately swimming in feces and that's reality. And why am I telling you this? For reasons, what happens when you look at the details of those bonds that are under no. 48519 you realize that the main purpose of this bond is environmental infrastructure. And from the events ahead of us, which happened during the weekend, we see that, that large, large questionnaires were placed in the water and water supply infrastructure because no one had ever warned us that in some strategy of the City of Zagreb, Zagreb would be assumed to become Venice, that we would potentially ić with gondolas to work and not only that, but Trnje, who is in Zagreb where I was born as a small football center of the City of Zagreb, would be held a water polo match between Trnje and Dubrovnik's South. What's going on here is that 2023. This bond is reaching, and somehow it seems to me that we have lost both the water supply network and no waste infrastructure, but without two billion kunas, so it is an additional argument that the state, except for those money that are already missing, will have to assume the City of Zagreb. As far as our citizens are concerned, unfortunately the government has presented a programme where only three sentences are presented, presenting their programme regarding the implementation. However, I would also like to touch it today during this exposure because the common fact is that 260 000 of our citizens, therefore, are being blocked by the execution. And not only because of this situation now, but generally because of the economic crisis that we are in, I think it would be necessary to put moratories on loans and interest, but not only that, but also for the purposes, which is also a short-term solution to the release of liquid assets into the economy itself, which would improve the economy itself, but also this situation related to Zagreb itself. At the end of the moratorium in the long run, the Club of Representatives of MOST actually advocates the redesign of the Law itself, which is complicated even for the people who wrote it and we believe that the entire system of performance cannot be privatised. We talk and think about the tasks that, which are treated by the floor, are through credible documents and which, which are cared for by the public notebooks and here we think that the performances should be ic in a transparent digital sense to, to, to, the courts where they would be transparently shown how, how many people they really owe. Not only that, but it also needs to be done for the purpose of paying first the principal before interest in the debt itself And we'll continue some other way. [[Intruder: Time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1565	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is the HDZ on behalf of which the respected representative, Domagoj Ivan Milosevic, will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1566	I would like to express my condolences today at the very beginning of this presentation on behalf of the HDZ Club for the family of Davor Kovačić, the deceased of Zagreb's volunteer firefighter, to thank him for all his charity and, selflessly for his life, to be an easy Croatian country. And we also thank all firefighters, not only Zagreb, all over the Republic of Croatia and all other public services, but also our fellow citizens who have been jumping in for the past days, weeks and months to help their fellow citizens, our fellow citizens or in the recovery of damages. Honorable Vice President HS, dear colleagues and colleagues, respected ministers and Mrs. Minister. The crisis that hit us in Zagreb is multiple, we all know that. At the same time, we have faced the consequences of both the earthquake itself and the consequences of today's coronary virus earthquakes and the economic financial crisis as a consequence of all of this, we have somehow forgotten in recent weeks that at one point we have been threatened and shut down hundreds of thousands of jobs throughout the Republic of Croatia. The government headed by Prime Minister Plenkovic reacted quickly and specifically in all these crises. The same day on the streets was the army and the police, the medical staff led the battle on both sides at the same time. All the services that struggled with the plight of Zagreb were hired, I don't think they ever hit in a thousand years of history, so every 150 years. It seems to be an earthquake and it's serious, but something like this, so we have a pandemic and an earthquake at the same time, it's probably never, and if God does, he'll never do it again. Thank God all of this has passed with minimal human sacrifices, but the consequences of the lives of our fellow citizens, not only in Zagreb but also in the area are enormous, we must all do together every effort, all that is in our power to reduce and resuscitate them. Despite the largest tax in the country and at the limit of the legal maximum, the huge annual budget of the City of Zagreb is not able to deal with the consequences of the accumulated disasters. With another thanks to the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the efforts so far and future not only financial efforts to resuscitate the situation in the capital and allow normal functioning, I think it's time to remind us all of what has been done in these, in those days and weeks. By way of the budget rebalance of the state and the Environmental Protection Fund, 100 million kuna was provided for the restoration of chimneys, roofs and dentists, 41 million kunas for condensation boilers, the government also took over the cost of accommodation for our most affected citizens in the Cvetna student centre. The World Bank's loan of $200m for health and education institutions has also been confirmed, i.e. a loan contract with the World Bank at nearly $185m with a really no interest rate, below 1% for post-quake reconstruction projects and strengthening public health preparedness. The Council of Europe Development Bank will provide a very favourable credit for the reconstruction of private houses and buildings, and in the end, but not least, the fund, so the EU Solidarity Fund has been applied for, the total amount of 500m euros has been agreed, 89m euros is already available at the beginning of August. According to a certified World Bank study, the earthquake damaged, unfortunately 25 thousand buildings, the estimated damage is nearly 90 billion kuna. In the law itself, allow me, of course, something more. This law that is before us is very complex, comprehensive, and I would dare say that under the circumstances in which it is brought, or under the circumstances that are all these months behind us and the complexity of the situation, I don't think we've passed such a law since the Homeland War. This is not a law that is the most important form in order to collect political points, we have heard from several sides today, this is a law that deals with the essence of the problem and seeks to solve the problems of our fellow citizens and their families permanently. The law consists of 9 parts, I would like to stress the following. The law covers all types of buildings and houses and the fastest possible covers all damaged citizens, i.e. their property in Zagreb, Zagreb and Krapina-Zagorje County, defining the way and process of rebuilding or removing buildings. The first part of the law, along with a series of general and common provisions, determines that the Republic of Croatia, i.e. The government takes over 60% of the reconstruction costs, 20% of the city of Zagreb, i.e. Zagrebačka or Krapinko-Zagorska County and 20% of the owners or co-owners of the property. I think that by taking over 60% of the reconstruction costs, the government of the Republic of Croatia has shown how much it cares about all of our citizens affected by the earthquake despite the obviously challenging times ahead of and before the state budget. Solidarity is important always, but solidarity is the most important in these situations and major crises. The government will establish a training centre for the reconstruction of 18 members who will gather in one place all relevant associations and chambers, therefore, all of the order of experts. The second part of the law defines buildings that are being renovated and how to rebuild damaged buildings. I believe it's good for our fellow citizens to repeat, so multi-state buildings, family houses, residential buildings, business buildings and public purpose buildings. It also defines how to restore damaged buildings, repair non-building elements, repair of construction or strengthening of construction, and complete reconstruction of construction and complete reconstruction of the building. The third part of the law deals with the definition of buildings that are removed and the process of removal itself, the fourth by building replacement family houses, details all the details under which the conditions are built, the place of construction and the size, as well as the whole process of building the replacement house. The fifth part defines financial assistance for temporary protection of buildings, monetary assistance for all affected citizens and those who have already renovated their buildings and financial assistance, instead of building a replacement family home for those who will not want to build a replacement family house. The sixth part defines the establishment of the City of Zagreb, Krapina-Zagorska and Zagreb County, with the aim of restoring buildings, paying cash assistance, removing buildings and building replacement houses. The founders of the Fund for Reconstruction are the Republic of Croatia, the City of Zagreb, the Krapina-Zagorska and Zagreb County, and their relations will be detailed by mutual agreement. It is also clearly determined to restore i.e. all recovery procedures shall be carried out on the basis of a decision by the restoring ministry and how the procedure is initiated, upon whose request, and any proceedings under the decision of the Ministry will be carried out by the Reconstruction Fund. The selection of participants in the construction, reconstruction and removal will be based on the Public Procurement Act according to the criteria set out in the programme of measures. The same programme determines the highest prices for services, works and construction. products that can be accepted. The seventh part of the law covers the issue of housing care for persons affected by an earthquake, housing of state bodies, determines who has the right to care and determines the size of the apartments. The eighth part defines inspection and administrative supervision, the ninth transitional and final provisions. If you allow me, Ministers and Ministers, here in this part of just a few proposals, already today there have been talks, I think the prime minister mentioned speculators, I think we need to find in the second reading some sort of solution to really disable speculation and speculation that in a couple of hundred euros, indeed, from the elderly, socially the most vulnerable, buy-outs to protect them, and secondly, I think it would be good for this deadline for the Ministry of Construction, impact assessments from two years of age to one year. To conclude, except for the damage caused by an earthquake of nearly 90 billion kuna, indirect economic damage to our Zagreb, for us all, will, of course, be much larger. Therefore, the speed of construction, recovery and recovery of our capital will depend on 3 key things. First, effective and completely transparent management of the city, second, strong partnership with the Government of the Republic of Croatia and third, but not least, will depend on an honest partnership with medium and small entrepreneurs and craftsmen of the city of Zagreb, but also on the whole of Croatia. Namely, this renovation that is ahead of us can be a rescue for a whole series of small builders, craftsmen from all over Croatia, given the slowing or stopping of many projects and investment projects, in particular, unfortunately in tourism. Without that kind of cooperation, recovery will clearly be longer and weaker, and we want a completely opposite process. I'm going to talk about these three topics a little bit more in an individual debate. At the very end, I would like to say that our citizens from all over Croatia and in this crisis have once again shown what we always show in the most difficult times, courage, solidarity, humanity, care for the elderly, immobilized, for babies in hospitals, everyone who needed help and comfort, we are champions of the world. The HDZ Club will support the law and I urge all opposition parties and opposition MPs to do the same, or if they do not consider it to at least propose concrete improvements until the next reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1567	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives is that of HSLS and Reformers on behalf of whom the respected representative Darko Klasic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1568	Here, thank you, well-respected vice president of the assembly, distinguished and respected MPs, distinguished ministers and ministers. This year, Zagreb was hit by all 4 unfortunately riders of the apocalypse, floods, earthquakes, crowns and unfortunately Milan Bandic. It was extremely difficult for me as a born Zagrebian to see those 10 seconds of earthquakes that caused the destruction of the City of Zagreb. One of the consequences of the earthquake that hit Zagreb on 22 March was the large eviction of a large number of citizens, nearly 20,000 people were forced to leave their homes in the City of Zagreb and temporarily, and some even permanently. But even before the earthquake, large parts of the city’s center have been exposed for decades to decay, non-preservation, and desolation. This proposed law is a good step in restoring such Zagreb with several principled shortcomings that we believe should be removed from it in order to make it as effective as possible. I'm going to propose concrete amendments to the law, so I'm going to go in line, Art. 5. the financing of the implementation of the law in point 5 for the purpose of ensuring the means of implementation of this law and the allocation of resources in the state budget in budgetary items in the case of budgetary users or between budgetary users and the cohesion of budgetary users may be carried out in excess of the prescribed Budget Act. As we know that Milan Bandic has brought the City of Zagreb into major financial problems, the financial possibility of supporting the city to damaged citizens is questionable in general, and that the mayor of Zagreb is often prone to unintended spending of funds, budgetary resources, should be added with this article to the paragraph of the budget of the city, which determines the amount of reconstruction, and the costs and the spending of funds from that item should be monitored by representatives of the Zagreb Reconstruction Fund from the earthquake. Secondly, all participants in the renewal process should agree to public disclosure of all data related to the restoration of facilities so that all processes and reconstruction procedures are transparent and accessible to the public. This includes the size of the rehabilitated facility, the cost of renovations, offers for the reconstruction of public procurement companies, and the ownership structure of companies that apply to public tenders. To this end, the Ministry or the Agency for Reconstruction for the opening of a public website shall be in charge of which all information relating to public procurement, the selection of contractors, the applicant for co-financing requests granted and the same data should be updated on a regular basis. It's not something new. This is something that Italy did 10 years ago, they absolutely put all the items of reconstruction after the earthquake on public access portals in, on a daily basis and it was the best actually prevention of any malversion and corruption. Construction should be renewed under the law so that it is maximumly foreseen for the location of the cassin section that causes earthquakes in the City of Zagreb. If possible within the framework of the existing historical structure, the building should be provided to a standard that already exists on new constructions and includes understanding and dynamics of the cash flow. If not then, the building should be torn down and renewed by selecting the types of reconstruction because in the event of a new earthquake this whole reconstruction will prove to be a failure. With regard to buildings that will be co-financed by the state either immediately or at the beginning and after the return money, an earthquake insurance obligation must be prescribed with the mandatory possession of a seismic certificate for the building, and all buildings in the centre of the city that are not public purposes, so residential and business housing should be resistant to earthquakes up to at least 6 degrees per Richter. It must also enable the owners of residential buildings that have already accessed the project reconstruction, hence the construction of project documentation for the recovery of buildings, and whose project corresponds to the technical regulation on changes and additions for construction structures, to return 80% of that amount to the reserve from which the project was financed. So, the goal is not to have public tenders opened by the state because we all know what that means, as we saw in the example of the facade in the City of Zagreb. We thus send them a message that those who are proactive and care for their property have the right to request a return afterwards. The same should apply to the stage of performing the work. Therefore, if works are started, the owners of the building must have the right to retroactively claim the right to compensation according to the proposed model regardless of their not participating in public tenders but have opted for private roads. This is a key item because a lot of people have already begun the process of rebuilding the building could not wait for either the city or the state to approach the reconstruction. Art. 28. The same should actually be added to it, insurance for damaged houses, hail. 1. The owner of a family home which is secured in a place to be built is obliged to provide insurance for damage and destruction and to transfer the house in favour of the state budget to decide on the construction of a replacement family house. This should be added if the insurance is transferred, it is believed that the owner has fulfilled the required share of 20% of his own participation in the restoration, because he already had a proactive participation and thought about what might happen in the event of an earthquake in the City of Zagreb and should not be in the same position as those who did not take care of their property. Art. 3rd wheel. 12. multi-state buildings here are defined in this law as residential buildings, consisting of at least 4 apartments. What if the building in the upper city has two or three apartments, then it's no longer residential? There it should be, the article should actually read, the multi-state building is a building with more than one apartment. So the same page 11 paragraph 6 is quite a bad formulation, the law states that the owner of the damaged building is entitled to financial assistance for works before and before the adoption of this law, and for the costs it has, ie, for the necessary temporary protection of the building from the influence of the atmosphere and the removal of dangerous parts of buildings that could or could endanger the lives or health of the people for repairing or replacing chimneys for repair and replacement of the dental wall and repair... sources of funds and amounts of financial assistance for the legitimate costs incurred by the owner of the damaged building the written request of the building manager and representative of the co-owners or at the request of the owner of the family house determines the government by decision." The problem with this passage is actually a legal... house, and what about apartment owners? Stano owners must be taxed as help users, as well as on the same page. 1st paragraph 2 "For the space and historical urban whole of the City of Zagreb, a whole reconstruction program is being developed that works for the Institute of Spatial Planning and the City of Zagreb, I would also suggest that it be added here in cooperation with the Conservatory Department of the Ministry of Culture." Point 10(3). “The program of the complete restoration of the historic urban whole of the City of Zagreb is being developed by the Institute for the Spatial Planning of the City of Zagreb and should also be added in cooperation with the Conservatory Department of the Ministry of Culture and the Faculty of Architecture of the University of Zagreb.” point 3. "The president and his deputies and members of the expert council are appointed and resolved by the Government, the president is appointed from the ranks of state officials, one deputy is appointed from the Office of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia and the other from the order of officials and services of the City of Zagreb. One member of his deputies is appointed from the order of experts of the Ministry of Culture, experts from the Faculty of Civil Engineering, the Faculty of Engineering of Zagreb, the Faculty of Architecture, the Croatian Chamber of Engineering, Croatian Chamber of Engineering, Croatian Chamber of Engineering, Croatian Chamber of Engineering, Croatian Chamber of Engineering, Croatian Chambers of Electrical Engineering Engineers, HGK, HUP, Croatian Association of Construction Engineers, Association of Zagreb, Croatian Engineering Association, Institute of Art, City Institute for Protection of Cultural Monuments, Nature, City of Zagreb and the Foundation for Reconstruction of the City of Zagreb, Krapina-Zagorje County, Zagreb County, may also be added to the Institute of Social Sciences Ivo Pilar, Institute of Social Research, Institute of Economic Research and Institute for Tourism." The Law should also provide for the establishment of institutions for the restoration of Zagreb and the coordination of the body of the office of the institutions. I see that there is a lot transferred here to the fund itself, I don't know how much will be operational, which co-ownership will be 60%, 40% City of Zagreb according to the principle of financing the renovation. All these suggestions as well as other additions to the Law on the Reconstruction of the City of Zagreb, and we have many more taxing ones I would not like to take away and usurp time with taxing allegations. Here is the HSLS to deliver to the Ministry of Construction and we expect the inclusion of these proposals in the Law on the Reconstruction of the City of Zagreb. The city of Zagreb is waiting for us, let us be concrete and constructive in discussions for the benefit of our citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1569	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is that of IP, Smart and GLAS in the name of which they will speak and the time will be shared by the first respected representative of Anka Mrak Taritas, and then the respected representative of Dalia Oreskovic. Here you are, dear MPs, Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1570	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear ministers and ministers, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us the first reading of the law, which defines the restoration of buildings damaged by the earthquake in the City of Zagreb and the two counties of Krapina-Zagorska and Zagreb County. What I should firstly say and praise, we absolutely appreciate that this law goes into two readings. It is a very important law, and it would not have been good if we had listened to this session of the Parliament, or this assembly of Parliament, that he had started to go into emergency procedures, by the more we have certain remarks, we have some suggestions, and somehow we have listened to the minister who spoke, and we have listened to the prime minister who said he would listen to what the opposition has to say and that those proposals that are constructive will probably be a challenge to what the opposition thinks is constructively perhaps not the prime minister. But they were alive and saw, so we'll see what we'll get in the second reading, and what kind of bill the law will come up with. History will be the teacher of life, in 1880 the great earthquake struck the City of Zagreb. The city of Zagreb at the time of the earthquake was a small town on the edge of the Austrian-Hungarian monarchy that was so not special in other cities, behind the earthquake the best builders of Austro-Hungarian came and built in the City of Zagreb and this identity and the upper city, and also the lower city we know today and block construction is the result of this restoration. So at that moment in 1880, then the government in the City of Zagreb recognized that this could be a major step and the result was that the City of Zagreb really became at the level of other Central European cities not to say today is both the metropolis and one of the EU members. Since we waited four months for this law, what we expected, we expected to get this law a different proposal and a different step, that we would not seal the existing situation in a way that we only deal with constructive reconstruction but that we would take a step forward and we would go into urban reconstruction. This is even more why the City Institute for Spatial Development of the City of Zagreb has analyzed all the city blocks that it has 169 made an analysis and saw what could happen there. In this proposal, the law did not deal with urban reconstruction. I am sure that between the two readings you can sit with the City Hall, see this and have a special chapter which would mean urban reconstruction for the City of Zagreb. The urban reconstruction would mean that the City of Zagreb has the right to a different face from this earthquake. He has the right not only to make a constructive recovery, so a constructive recovery is the recovery of constructive parts by leaving buildings as they are but has the right to get another person, he has the right to this problem which was also an earthquake that was if I could say the problem, although he should use some harsh words, he can turn into an opportunity, an opportunity for the new identity of the city, an opportunity for the economy, an opportunity for the blocker that we need construction and everything else, if this law remains on this proposal, it will not be. We in the Party of Name and Last Name Club, Smart and GLAS decided that in our first reading we will not give support to this law, but we will discuss affirmatively and we will give the opportunity to improve everything we say and to make it better because we want the citizens of the City of Zagreb to really have the opportunity to rebuild their properties and live in better conditions. Let me give you an example, and you'll know what we're talking about. The citizens of the City of Zagreb did not wait, they did not wait for the law because they did not even have an announcement of what kind of law would be. So, what we had the opportunity to see in the public debate was a semi-product because it was the result of the dispute between the two HDZ coalition partners and Mr Bandic, so they couldn't agree on what kind of law would go on, so they were already at the moment when we knew we were going to have an election with one half-product in the public debate. There were 398 objections in the public debate, and this law, as we have today, is among other things the result and part of those remarks. So it has already been shown that when the remarks are that they can be accepted and made, but an appeal that is not only a constructive recovery but an opportunity and indeed urban reconstruction of the city according to the expressions we know. We don't know in terms of construction, but the expression that was there 100 or 50 years ago, we know new materials, a new expression, and that would be one particular swing, but it requires a real change and structure in this law. I'm going to be here for the rest of the two-and-a-half minutes that I have to refer to a few things that I think is important to emphasize. The first thing we do is we do not apply this law directly, it is applied through the programme of measures, so there is no direct application of this law, but first we need to adopt a programme of measures that the ministry must propose to the Government within 30 days and the government to adopt within the next 15 days. This means, in other words, that a number of things will be defined in the programme of measures that will be taken by the Government that will not pass the parliamentary debate and that will not pass the discussion on boards and the possibility of deciding on it. What we think, that three things should be clearly defined in the law, and not leave the programme of measures, which is how the application is submitted, is what project documentation looks like and it is common in all the laws and what is the challenge of the means of financing, or if it is both property censorship and everything else, not leave for the programme measures but to install into this law. What I also have to say is part of the replica I sent to the prime minister. At this point, we know exactly how many buildings are in an earthquake and which are damaged in the area of 2 counties. When it comes to the City of Zagreb, it is about 25,000 buildings. Of those 25,000 buildings, we have family buildings, we have multi-state buildings, we have business, we have business-houses, we have public buildings. We don't know of those 25,000 which are which when we know it will also facilitate our funding models or debate whether the model is 60, 20, 20. And what I'm saying for the end, the citizens didn't wait until they started rebuilding their properties and their apartments. Someone who restored their apartment, if you can imagine that he will now accept the reconstruction of the structure, move out of the apartment, accept that someone lifts his floors, ceilings, or part of the apartment collapses, won't. If the citizens had known some models two or three months ago, it would have been easier for them, but that time went on as it did for me, so here's Mrs. Oreshkovic to move on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1571	Thank you very much. Next.../incomprehensible/... esteemed representative Dalia Oreshkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1572	Dear representatives and MPs above all welcome the fact that by the first reading, the bill was respected by around 25% of the comments and indications received in the public debate, but it was still a lack of vision of the development of the City of Zagreb for the 21st and 22nd centuries, most of which was pointed out by representatives of the professional public, and when we remove ideological differences and a few of the representatives who well and precisely pointed out the extreme inadequacy of the municipal infrastructure of the City of Zagreb. I am glad that there is will and that there is a word of clubs and representatives who support raising the value of both the urban and the spacious City of Zagreb which can be the engine of the development of all Croatia. I therefore advocate that we use this restoration as an opportunity for a new step, not just as a patching of permanent structures. In doing so, we must make sure that the statically damaged centre does not cause economic and socially impaired social relations or new inequality. The long-term resolution must respect the requirements of fairness and the balance of the interests of all social groups. For the time being, it is impossible to speak more concretely because the real situation of damaged property has not been established, social criteria have not been developed and ownership relations have not been resolved. I will also point out a number of principles, and one is that the task of the state is to think ahead and to create a legislative framework that is just and predictable. In its programme, the Government spoke of a safe Croatia, so legal certainty primarily implies the same solutions to the same situations, but this law as many others shows that unfortunately we always act retroactively. And that's why we always need some special law, some lex specialis, so special laws like this always bring danger even when they're written in the best sense of their implementation or that they can create new social and social inequalities. So now this tension and question is whether there is solidarity here between different parts and the ends of the Republic of Croatia. The law we are discussing today refers to a precisely defined area, and unfortunately we may even get hit by other areas before this law is passed. It is therefore important to think carefully about the proposed co-financing ratios being well-developed and layered and to be fairly applicable and identical today... and to all other similar situations. I will only give two concrete examples in view of the limited time of the debate, so we can factor out the coefficients in terms of the purpose and purpose of the real estate itself or, for example, with regard to the approval of the upgrade. So where such an upgrade exists, there is a possibility of creating some added value, and then the funds needed to rebuild can be derived from this particular investment project that relates to a particular property. As regards social categories, we can respect and develop the very purpose or purpose of using a particular property by considering the social status of the owner himself. So where there is one real estate used only for housing, perhaps the ratio of co-financing or the share could go more in the direction of public support, and where the purpose of real estate is a business and rent, especially if it is a larger number of properties of the same owner, some other market models of favourable credit lines can be offered, but in any case, the burden of refurbishment may more rest on the owner himself. Staying on the proposed 60-20-20 model alone would be bad, possibly potentially harmful. It is also disputed that co-financing will be implemented under a programme that will be implemented by the Government, and details at the moment the law itself is passed will not be known, which means that we will have a great deal of important criteria at the moment when we decide something. Each subsequent definition of special conditions and special criteria creates a space for private interests. That's what we have to take care of in time. In any case, the result of this law must be better Zagreb, more beautiful, greener, more energy-sustainable and communally strong city. We therefore hope that there will continue to be good will and openness and for all constructive proposals and observations both to the opposition and to the professional and other interested public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1573	Thank you very much. The next club of representatives is the SDSS on behalf of which the respected representative Milorad Pupovac will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1574	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. When we faced a devastating earthquake in the city of Zagreb and its wider surrounding areas of Zagreb County and the area of Krapina-Zagorje County, and after a series of earthquakes that we were informed about in the media that hit other parts of Southeastern Europe, we faced the destructive power that nature can have and that nature in certain cycles is predictable or, as in the case of earthquakes that are unpredictable, it can also cause us to be small, powerless and the only thing that makes us greater is solidarity, is the skill to start thinking about what we have done and what we haven't done to make the damages that such a destructive power of nature can cause and which can leave behind. It is indeed an opportunity, and many have come to know it, many in the media have said that when an earthquake occurred on one side, and the other side pandemic to face the fact or question of what state we have in which we have a state of society, whether we can deal with such dangers that come from nature or from the poor management of natural resources that a man can have, as is the case with the pandemic. We realized that the state is important to us, but not the state for which individuals will reach out to be a means of reaching their loyalty, and by concealing their own ammorality, rather than a state that will be functional, a state that will be prepared and rich enough to deal with such disasters. We have experienced that we do not have such a state and that it is an opportunity to realize that we need to create it. This law proposed is an expression of this as well as those who have been considering the economic measures that need to be reached in view of the pandemic, which is to restore and strengthen the functional role of the state necessary for Croatian society, each of its citizens, that the state is not an imagination which will be managed by anyone, whenever they want, but the state is a concrete, operational, functional means. Most of the good that citizens have and are working in the interest of every citizen of elemental security such as the right to a home in the event of an earthquake to elementary health and the right to treatment and... health institutions and medical achievements in this regard to the protection of human health. And it is good that we have started to raise awareness, and good news that in all our society, including Parliament, this consciousness is becoming stronger and more important. It is also good that we are an EU member with all the bad elements that it carries with it because the EU has also realised that solidarity is the only thing that can make it strong. And we hope that in addition to the insurance funds that we have heard and that the prime minister said that the European Solidarity Fund will receive the necessary funds for these 11.5 and a little more than €11.5 billion as needed to restore all that is needed to recover after the damage caused by the earthquake. As far as the law itself is concerned, it's a good thing that the proposer is, so the government is open to public debate. It is even better that by now she has already adopted 25% of the remarks and proposals that have been made so far. We of the SDSS Club as part of the ruling coalition will try to keep the government open to all objections and those concerning direct laws and its corruptions, its provisions, but also what in the public debate as well as in this debate could be heard, which is that repairing and rebuilding buildings of any kind should be an opportunity for much more ambitious plans when urban, construction, environmental, development, infrastructure, infrastructure, infrastructure changes that we haven't actually done in years. And it is good that this debate was opened and it would be a great shame if someone tried to silence that debate because it is productive for Zagreb, for these two counties, but it should also be productive for the entire Republic of Croatia, because the issue of infrastructure, municipal, road, parking, whether it is parking or parks in the green sense of that word and of exceptional importance for each of our environments. And we don't leave and we don't have the best picture in our cities today when it comes to it. The same applies to the waterway, to the drain, to the different aspects of municipal infrastructure when it comes to it. We had a type of urbanization that was very different from what it was until the '90s, we had a kind of development of our cities like Zagreb and the surrounding area that didn't always meet the biggest urban standards and requirements, and it shouldn't be forgotten. On the infrastructure communal and infrastructure, a social one that cannot and could not accept it properly. And part of the consequences we suffer from the floods in Zagreb is the expression of it. What I'd like to say about this law is deadlines are important and respected, Mr. Minister and Mrs. Ministers are extremely important that citizens have some projection of what deadlines the facilities will be completed, whether private houses, or public buildings, or specific objects of particular cultural or national interest or religious interest if they are religious objects. I know it's not always easy because an inflow of funds can't be planned as easily, but defining deadlines seems to me extremely important and necessary on the basis of an analysis which, which will need to be done as soon as possible as possible soon as possible. I would also like to say that the issue of social differences must be considered as one of the key things in the reconstruction process in order to prevent the inequality that exists among people in our country anyway, so as not to grow with this. On the other hand, the social component must be taken in order to combat corruption and the state there must play a key role, so well that the prime minister is answering one question from the MPs during the debate after his presentation not only showed full awareness of it but also indicated that it is the government's concern and should be the government's concern, it should be the concern of the state because many people have not been strong enough and sufficiently committed to it in our country in recent years and decades are actually more and more poor and will not have these 20% as owners of any apartments, any houses. And it is extremely important for the state to be effective in this regard, it is important for the government not to be accused once again of participating in any kind of favoring those who have money, while at the same time discriminating those who do not have money in such important things as the issue of home rights, the right to housing. We also agree with those who think it is necessary to take care not only of seismic components, not only of the building components, but also of the environmental components, the ecological values of the works carried out, but also of the urban dimension of the ecological component that should be taken into account. This is what will make people's lives better than we have now in our often crowded cities, cities where green surfaces were affected by asphaltification or because, as some in my nearest environment say, the tycoon where the city was losing the lungs that it needed, where gliders were created that didn't have to be created as they were now during these last floods. In the end, as a man can be little before natural, the powers of nature can be little before history, and there should be little no one but should be firmly anchored in morality regardless of what religious, Christian, or any other domination or civil whatever. We heard in some debate here that Zagreb was shaking or shaking in '45. When some of them got rich in '41, someone's grandfathers. And from the Ustasha programme, again, apartments belonging to Jews, Serbs and others have won 10 apartments and houses. Whether injustice was done to some people in '45, certainly, and whether during the former state the first seismic system of building objects by categories and by standards of the highest that existed in the world at that time was established. Was urbanism so defined that there were places for playgrounds, for parks, for walks, for places to entertain and rest, for entirely new systems of sewage, roads and roads, it is. And when someone from their very narrow perspective, almost private, speaks of such important and large topics as the moment of solidarity that he or she has shown with a saying or not, and the Prime Minister himself, showing and referring to the necessity to listen to each other and to hear who has the best suggestion in these things, someone appears and speaks from such a small human perspective using words such as chirotony and which bear significant names in Croatian culture such as St. Jeronim and like Yere or every other who thinks that by doing so, one of those sitting in this hall or those sitting in these benches will attribute something that is unholy and unchristian and inhuman. You know as those Serbs from Ljubljana who appeared at the moment when Belgrade's city authorities wanted to change the names of streets belonging to other communities, other peoples in the former Yugoslavia, did an honorable thing for themselves, Maribor and Belgrade, so the Belgrade citizens when Zagreb was shaken up and when he suffered who spent several nights solidarity with Zagreb showed that they could be greater than the little souls and voices we could hear today in this assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1575	We are now going to the Croatian Sovereigns' Club, two MPs, the first colleague Zekanovic, followed by his colleague, Sacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1576	Dear President of the Assembly, dear colleagues and colleagues, I wanted to be and be constructive and concrete, but I have to comment here on my colleague Pupovac, so these last five minutes of his speech, this is fantastic. He spoke about Belgrade, about changing the street name in Belgrade, he mentioned little to Ljubljana, the Serbian national issue, the Ustasha, of course the Ustasha mentions the same thing, Ustasha terror, and all in the topic of rebuilding the City of Zagreb since the earthquake. Congratulations, fellow Members, once again, to the coalition government you're in, it's a great honor. Here's a fellow Pupovac leaving the assembly, but what I have to do while he's out to tell him to hear when he said he was deceived before history, history was, history was in '41, '45, but history was also '95. when this same city of Zagreb was bombed by your compatriots for May 1st, when our general Sacic was liberating western Slavonia. It is not mentioned that part of history does not matter to him and forgets it, but we are going to the point we are going back to the Law on the Reconstruction of the City of Zagreb, this was only actually an accident. The key question is where we will finance the reconstruction of the City of Zagreb. In this law that's come with fault, there's virtue, it's written simply 60 states, 20% county and 20 citizens themselves, great, okay. Citizens will either borrow from a friend, a relative or get out of the safe if they have or will not renew that money at all if they do not have that money, but what with the counties nobody has said is where the counties will come from and the City of Zagreb will naturally make money and what is of course with the state money. I've offered a solution here and in the replica specifically, constructively, I wasn't here, and I'm going to repeat it to the respected ministers and ministers, so let's not talk about it at the government. That's one model I've asked for a little bit was these models, Turkey was doing it, the excise model, it's not, it doesn't sound nice, but the money we borrow from the EU because there won't be so many grenades that and you know the money we'll only get something donated in this first phase, said the prime minister himself, the deposit of 89 million euros, later on 500, and we're missing 11 billion euros, so we're missing 90 and some percent of the money. And I wouldn't run away from the meaning of excise duty to which those who, for example, would. Don't mind my smokers, smoke cigarettes, give me 20 limes for rebuilding the City of Zagreb, why not? Here's one solution, or maybe excise on fuel, a little less popular or a hot drink, that's what I'm suggesting. There's no other money, all the money we borrow, and by the moss we'll borrow it's how the Prime Minister skillfully hid it in his exposure, we'll have to pay it back. So there's no money donated, so we'll be in charge of rebuilding our capital. We need to rebuild it. With that in mind, I might even increase this 30% share to the county, reduce the state money because we need to know that the City of Zagreb is the richest. For what? Because all state institutions are located in the City of Zagreb and therefore there is a large VAT. If we had a dislocated ministry, for example. If the Ministry of Tourism or Maritime Affairs were to come to Sibenik or Zadar or Split, then I would say ok let's make this 10%, let's help as a state. But since we still have one centralisation in Croatia, since everything is focused on our capital, I think it should increase that the City of Zagreb carries 30%, the state slightly less. That would be fair and correct to me. And another very important moment, here I am going to be a brief, social moment that wasn't taken into account, I'm just going to point out a problem maybe through this programme of measures that will be taken to make this work. If I have one single property and I'm here, here I am in the Upper City, and my house is dead, I have four children, for example. either five, six or I'm retired or I'm a social case I can't go by the same measures that have ten apartments for a day's rent. So whoever's rich, rich, has ten, fifteen housing units in this area, according to this law as far as I've seen, has the same rights or equal opportunities as the one that's his only living space and the only real estate, and that needs to be changed and you kind of reconcile that. Here I might think about it, so I'll make some amendments to it, but maybe it can be done through the measure program. This isn't fair for now. Here's a colleague of Sacic's, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1577	Your Honor. Indeed today is the moment when, first of all, we remember our victim from that earthquake of Animarija Tsarevic, but we can thank God, indeed dear God that it was not more tragic, only for a second was it possible for this devastating earthquake to take away many, many more victims. I don't need to talk about subjective experiences to all of you who have experienced it, and you who thank God didn't have that opportunity, so remember your days from the edges during the aggression of the great Serbian to the Republic and the bombing of cities from Vukovar, ruby Sisak, Gospić and so on, but all of this isn't enough for you what we've experienced. I was five years in the war, I can tell you that this is an experience that I will endure for the rest of my life, as such, and about children, women, old people, everyone who came and came from the epicenter from Markushevec we have the fact that even today we thank God with the involvement of our local administration and the self-government of the Council of the City Quarter of Sub-Site and valuable, agile, noble president of Mr. Kresimir Kompesak we have psychological assistance to the citizens because there were 1,500 earthquakes after that first and second most destructive. We from the sub-szemen both on this side of Zagreb and on the one of Zagreb, which is hardly mentioned, and the turkey, prigorje from the Council, we have different, important different and needs, although the promoter put it in the same denominator, but we have its specifics, it is the area of green area of family houses, it is the area of small, medium-sized entrepreneurship where, apart from living space, it is actually threatened directly, not only that zone of housing but also the existence of many people who have experienced this earthquake and who have prevented regular action, family care, life. Therefore, by studying all these provisions, we can only say that we have to take care of specificity, that Croatia in this area, in this segment of our suburban zone, is not fully resolved all property issues, not all legalisations have been carried out, and I have seen that the promoter has kept an account, that he will be extremely flexible and will not insist on some additional unnecessary formalities that a man who has indeed been affected by this terrible accident comes to realize his rights and refund damages. We must therefore be clear here, and on the other hand limit this natural need just to compensate for the damages of abuse. We must not allow ourselves, respected ministers and proposing that after this restoration of Zagreb, suburban zones and all counties we come out loud as our colleagues and ministers Mrak Taritas and others after the restoration of Gunja to drag some tails either in public or in real or in some virtual life. Therefore, corruption does not, we must make that balance. What should certainly be pointed out is that after this terrible give God of unrepealable evil that happened to us in that sub-Second zone of the state was paralyzed, not only because of the shock that happened understandablely, but we had this covid, we also had these, which means that in the first few days, these restrictions were terrifying and this and this psychological moment of failure was most visible from, and from the state, but also from the local authorities or city administrations in those first 5-6 hours and 10 hours. And the only one who reacted and when we came home to human solidarity, thank God, with God's help as man, neighbor to neighbor, there it was seen that it was natural, as well as in war and peace, each other going in their arms, in their arms or each other looking at this strength, help and then it was actually seen if for anything this local administration and self-government were well placed, the council of the city's district, the local committees, then we can say that it was the only thing that worked in the first hours and later in the days of the earthquake, therefore, we need to develop it. The City Quarter Council, in this case as I have said, Mr. Compess and all the local committees of the Six Downs, this Markushevac, the Trnava, and the Chucher and everything else, have taken over the key operational management and import of services to, which otherwise the state should undertake. So, they've tied services and civil protection and fire and help and if you want to repair the damage by our water, draining, cleanliness, etc., on their backs are the most actually back then, and today these damages have been remedied. In this law, I should say, this is my long thanks to you if in the meantime the earthquake has passed, so for several months also this local administration and self-government and led by Mr. Bandić we have provided a certain fund, we know it all, Fund for, for, for the City of Zagreb where the aggressive means of solidarity of our city administration and private and entrepreneurship have so far paid exceptional funds, millions of amounts in this fund and from this fund is bought huge amounts of construction material for this first aid to our people who got the stickers or red “unusable” or yellow which is not defined, but “useable” or green “useable” or “useable” of all the necessary materials”, but with certain conditions and each of us has such damage, each should have been now, rain was, you know the situation and everything else, the state today that the city of the city of Zagreb, the important of Zagreb, the most of which was not, the important in terms and the town, or sociality of Zagreb, or social society, the whole of Zagreb, or the whole, the whole of Zagreb, the whole, the whole of the board, the whole of the board, the whole, the board, the board of the board, the board of the whole, the board of the board, the whole, the board of the board, the board, the boards, I'm sorry, the SDP got distancing in the beginning, said it wouldn't be part of it, that, it's not honor and benefit, but let the citizens know it, and everyone else, including me, please? ... No, I'm not. I'm talking about the exact same thing. Ask the honorable gentleman. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1578	My colleague, please, there are no polemics... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1579	Uh, absolutely the same, please don't. This Mr. Tafra will tell you, he apologized and said he wasn't involved in it. Therefore, dear friends and MPs can tell you that we have provided this first aid ourselves, that we want to get to the point of resolving this damage as soon as possible and those who have invested their money so far. around me neighbors, to refund these funds [[Intruder: Thank you]] And with great optimism [[Agreement: Thank you fellow Sacic]] We're expecting it. [[Employer: Comrade Sačić, time is up]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1580	Please. Let's stick to the weather. We have one violation of the Rules of Procedure, it's a respected representative of Jack's, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1581	Thank you, Mr. President. He's been injured. 232, Zekanovic, in his presentation, certainly did not stick to the topic but mentioned MP Milorad Pupovac by name and last name in 4 minutes four times. He was also injured in Article 2 of the same article, which was certainly why he should have been noted.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1582	Dear colleague Jeckov, I do not believe that there has been a breach of the Rules of Procedure, I have listened carefully and the exposure has been within what I consider correct and allowed in accordance with our Rules of Procedure. We can agree or disagree on what the MP said, but I don't see any breach of the Rules of Procedure. Comrade Zekanovic, you asked for a break as I understand it, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1583	I'm looking for a break from the Croatian Sovereigns' Club to consult further on this law. I have to point out here that, and thank you, actually, Mr. President, for stopping me in defense this time. I mentioned Mr. Pupovac several times, it was true, in his debate precisely because Pupovac went off the table because in his debate, he was fantastically able to mention both the Ustasha and Belgrade and the problem of the Serb national minority, and that has nothing to do with this law that we are passing today. And that's what's controversial and that's what I pointed out. So with that, he's been talking in one context since '41-'45, and here I was just trying to remind him that there was a '95. It's May 1st, '95. Mr. from here on out, there Pokuplje, that grenades were falling all over the city of Zagreb, which was then destroyed and destroyed, and we never heard from your colleague Milorad Pupovac, that he showed some empathy, that he talked a little bit about, that he took a free speech here so he said something like that in front of his national minority, I apologize on behalf of what my compatriots did, I disagree with it, it's bad and it's wrong and here it is, we'll see if a colleague of Pupovac or a fellow Milosevic, or maybe he would come along and celebrate with us the magnificent victory of Croatia. The army of August 5th in Knin [[Agreement: colleague Zekanovic]] and what I'm interested in. [[Agreement: colleague Zekanovic.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1584	I beg you, therefore, I am, I have not stopped at your protection but at the protection of the Rules of Procedure because I felt that he was not injured, that is one thing, but now you are violating the Rules of Procedure, so you have asked for a break in order to re-analyze this law within the club, you are now talking about a subject that is not related to what we are talking about now and I am asking you not to do it, I will approve the pause, but we stick to what is the topic. Thank you very much. The stop is 13 and 40. It's 13:30. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 13,40 HOURS]] Now it's the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives, dear colleague Tomašević, and after him, colleague Bencic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1586	I thank the President of the Parliament. We're a little behind on the break, but it's not much of a gym, but I appreciate the minister being here, and I guess the minister will be joining us soon, too. We've had a lot of, I think, constructive debate and in the media, we've had, I think, a constructive debate yesterday on the parent board, on spatial planning and construction, so hopefully we'll have a constructive debate in this atmosphere today, too, between the motionors or the government and the parliamentary representatives, especially those from the opposition. In that spirit of some dialogue will also be our exposure on behalf of the club and we hope that we can make this law better because we are all aware that some things are unscheduled, that some things are done on purpose even as holes that would be filled with some good suggestions, so that from that perspective will be our exposure on behalf of the club. It should be said that the zero point that we could actually estimate how much financial burden there will be, what kind of dynamics, which we will go in order to rebuild buildings is, is information about the state of these objects, and in that sense I am glad that we passed yesterday on to the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction that conclusion, that we are asking the City of Zagreb for data that I think is necessary to get at least until another reading because otherwise it is very difficult to assess what actually means 25 thousand objects that, I am talking specifically about the City of Zagreb, are damaged in an earthquake. We have categorization in six categories as these objects are damaged. So in category N1, N2, PN1, PN2 and U1 and U2, it means from those red stickers to yellow, i.e. orange, all the way to the green stickers, but we don't know what the composition of the 25,000 objects is based on their purpose. According to Art. 13th of this bill, this purpose may be or may be the meaning of public purpose buildings, such as hospitals and kindergartens, primary schools etc., may be such that it is a matter of family homes and the law has defined what it considers to be family homes and prescribed a certain standard for this. These can also be multi-state buildings, they can be mixed, i.e. business-house buildings and they can be meaning business buildings. So from that perspective, we're actually missing this 25,000 objects so that we can, for example, estimate how many business buildings or mixed buildings, means business-building buildings are also funded with a 60-20 model. If we could figure out how fair it is, if we could figure out what kind of reconstruction would be, would we go to family houses first, or would we go parallel to family houses and multi-state buildings because I think the apartment is still the first priority. Or, given the funding, this would still work parallelly and with the renovation of the public procurement building, which is also a priority for schools, kindergartens, hospitals, etc. This is very important information, so that we can see about which direction and which dynamics money will be spent on rebuilding the city of Zagreb, I am now speaking primarily to the city of Zagreb because the information the city of Zagreb has not yet given to the government and I hope it will soon be because otherwise we lack this debate. On the other hand, I think it is good that the law goes as lex specialis, or that it is a special law on the restoration of Zagreb and the environment, there have been some proposals today to make it different, or that we have a law that would apply to all similar situations, but I think that all or most agree that it would be impossible because the circumstances of the earthquake that has occurred in Zagreb, the strongest after 140 years, it is impossible to predict, each of these natural disasters is yet specific. We had a situation that after the flood in Gunja 100% publicly financed the restoration of both private homes and private facilities, however, here the damage is enormous and yet some participation of private owners is required. So it's impossible for us to have, in my opinion, a law that would meet the needs of a specific event, a specific location, a specific amount of damage caused by this earthquake, and that law would be applicable to all similar situations in the future. So I think it's a good thing we have lex specialis because he specifically defines both financially and what's equally, equally important, it's an institutional framework. The law, like, actually in that sense where lex specialis is exactly and I think it's the most important part of the law, which defines this financial ratio, primarily for private objects. To say, today, the Prime Minister also said that public procurement buildings will be financed, i.e. reconstruction, construction and any other overall reconstruction will be financed in a way that the founders will finance it at 100%, however, it does not say in the law in Article. 5. Nor is it clear from the article, it seems to me, 40th, so from that perspective it should, if it is already said, I agree with that, of course, that this is more clearly defined in the law itself. Now we're talking about a financial framework for private, i.e. for private-owned facilities and there is this famous 60-20-20 framework. I will mention that our coalition, the green-left coalition, which was before the parliamentary elections, was looking for a financial framework that would be 50% of the state, 35% of the local self-government unit and 15% of the private owners, so that the more or less proposed framework is on the trail of what we have proposed. So the difference is for private owners 5%, we're looking for 15%, here's 5% higher, so it's 20% now and the bigger difference from the perspective that the state would take 60% of the funding on itself, and then the share for local self-government units on our proposal from 35% to only 20%. Now, I think it's good, too, from the perspective of what I was saying earlier, which is that all founders regarding public-purpose buildings must finance the restoration themselves. I will bear in mind how many kindergartens, elementary schools have died in the city of Zagreb, whose town of Zagreb is the founder and that it must finance all of this, from this perspective I think it is good that the state has taken a larger share than the units of local self-government, especially the city of Zagreb, because we are talking about 26 thousand objects, and of those 26 thousand objects that are damaged in the earthquake, 100 objects are just outside of Zagreb, and 25 thousand are connected exclusively to the city of Zagreb. Also, colleagues will say a little more why they co-finance private property at all, everyone has already mentioned that we are talking exclusively about financing construction renovations, neither joint premises, nor arrangements, for example, residential and business spaces, none of which is included in this law but only construction reconstructions, and we had examples of Dubrovnik and Stone and Gunja, where, after the elementary disasters in the 100% amount, we financed, which here would be difficult given the large amount of damage facing the state budget and other sources of funding. So from that perspective it is quite justified and, of course, for those who have secured their property, they will certainly go better, they will need that compensation from the insurance that they have to office their homes since here we are talking exclusively about a construction reconstruction that would be financed by a 60-20-20 model, and it is difficult to expect from citizens that they should secure their property from the earthquake if the city of Zagreb did not do so either. So the city of Zagreb did not secure from the earthquake any city administration building or any local self-government building, so how, then, to look better than the city in terms of expectations for citizens. And I'd only say for the end, Art. 41st, I imitate the price control, I think it is very important because, as we know now, you market wild and works and project documentation and materials even, so in that sense, I think it is a very important article and for the institutional framework, we, as far as the club is concerned, are still standing in a position that should be set up to restore the city of Zagreb and its surroundings, it is even mentioned in Article. Article 38 38th, which means that he was probably in a version before the Institute for Reconstruction of Zagreb, but was expelled at the last minute. Instead of having a situation where we have a fund, which is a financial body, but in fact in some way and operationally, although this is not exactly seen from the title, so the ministry that brings a strategic document or programme of measures together with the Government, so we have expert advice, so we have what I think is the biggest problem, the Institute for Spatial Planning of the City of Zagreb, which will specifically create a programme for the full restoration of the historically protected core of the city of Zagreb compared to these institutions, such as the fund, ministry and expert advice, where we think should be at least a seismologist.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1587	Thank you. I'm just asking you to disinfect the pay phone. Now will be continued by her colleague Bencic. Time stands, don't worry.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1588	So, the Honorable President, Minister and Minister. One of our basic requirements regarding the Law on Reconstruction is that it is, firstly, just and consistent with the constitutional principle of the social state. This specifically means that the law must take into account the different socio-economic situation of the victims in the earthquake, but also, accordingly, differentiate their rights and their obligations. In this regard, we believe that the provisions on the establishment of a lien by the state over the real estate of the real estate users, in case they failed to pay the amount of co-financing of 20%, are dangerous because they pave the way for the city's generation. So we can easily imagine a situation, a multi-state building in which a part of the co-owner could pay his share in co-financing of 20%, and maybe one part is not. What's going to happen under the current bill is that the claimable right will be entered into the entire building, so all the apartments, so it will happen that those who have paid, that they will have a burden on their property, as well as those who are not. That's unfair to each other. According to the first because they have paid and will not be able to dispose of their property normally because they have a burden on them, but also unfairly to those who have not been able to pay for economic reasons because the pressure on them by other residents will be such that they will eventually have to sell their homes below the price. Let us be aware when we talk about housing issues, building issues, we talk about someone's homes most often. So we're not just talking about the apartment as some kind of square. For this reason, we consider and propose not to enroll the right to real estate in this case but to take some other insurance instruments that exist, which can also be used, so we suggest that, in order for the state to secure through the HBOR the line of financing, or to borrow those 20% which will be at low interest rates and which will not have all those conditions that are normally put in place for access to credit at all, or that people may be able to obtain these credits more easily. Furthermore, it is also important that, as a colleague has already said, insurance is valorised which some citizens have been paying for their property. So those who were paying insurance must be able to use their 20% co-financing because otherwise we penalize them against those who didn't pay for it. The important thing, the recovery itself will have a significant share in GDP, which is clear to all of us, so at the very amount of work that will be significant, so it will also be important for GDP. It is necessary to look at its economic effects, and in this context the effects on labour and labour rights issues. One of the objectives that we must necessarily through this law is to ensure that the price of work is controlled, therefore, but not only by works, but also by the services performed in the reconstruction. But also, the price must not be the only criterion for the selection of performers. From this point of view, we are asking, therefore, as required by the SSSH to include in the article on the rights and obligations of the contractor a requirement that the contractor is obliged to meet obligations in the field of environmental rights, social and labour rights including collective agreements, and in particular obligations to pay contracted wages and to implement protection at work. Why? Because in this way we can actually influence the extent to which we will have a reconstruction, we can also influence the position of workers in the construction sector, but also in all those accompanying sectors that will work on the reconstruction. And finally, what needs to be first is of great importance to enable citizens to assist in these necessary repairs and recoverys that are now being carried out, so it is our duty to really start by the end of autumn and the beginning of winter to resolve everything, all the questions that are related to chimneys, heating etc. I live in a neighborhood where people still go to each other's shower because they haven't had hot water in months. So we also have to provide them with those who don't have it, access to funding, so those who couldn't pay for it themselves, we have to take care of it, and by winter, people have to have heating. We also need to stop illegal renovations of schools and kindergartens because some of them are made by cosmetic repairs without project documentation and without strengthening mechanical, mechanical resistance. I guess it's up to all of us to know that our children are going and spending half the day in buildings that are safer and more resistant to earthquakes than they were that morning 22.3. And lastly, I would just answer Mr. Zurovec's remarks and similar remarks that come from the idea that those who don't have the money to rebuild should sell their properties because they're very valuable allegedly on the market. I tell them that many have already had to sell their apartments, and at prices less than 500 m2 because real estate vultures have already stumbled onto these apartments. But if there's an idea that this city should look like those who are poor don't have the right to live in certain parts of the city We resolutely reject this idea, the Republic of Croatia will remain social [[Intruder: Thank you]] The state and will remain solid. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1589	He will now speak on behalf of the Club of HNS, LS and independent representatives, respected colleague Predrag Štromar, and we will come to an end with discussions by clubs and after that we will go to individual debates. Here's your colleague, Stromar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1590	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues from the assembly, the Honorable Minister and Minister. Here's the ministry immediately on the 22nd, when this devastating earthquake took place on 22rd, it started making laws. Within 10 days, the basics were based on which we had been able to deal with the profession twice with the whole section, and another 10 times with smaller working groups, with precisely specific problems, how in the law to solve problems as soon as possible, as soon as possible to bring people back to the house, but we also worked parallelly on how to get some people into their houses immediately, and some by autumn to have solved what was necessary in houses that were orange and green, but which had no hot water, where the chimney was bad and where it couldn't be used, di couldn't use the gas. The citizens needed help right away, sure that it was immediately helped by firefighters, military, statistic engineers, volunteers, police and all of them should be deeply grateful for everything they had done, and the government immediately went to emergency measures to resuscitate roofs, chimneys, dental walls, elevators, purchase and replacement boilers. Up to 21.7. there were 304 applications for compensation for the emergency recovery, 168 were processed, requests amounted to 19 million kuna and the first payments had already been made. The demands are still being accepted, they are being resolved, the funds are being secured in the budget rebalancing of 141 million kunas, these funds exist and I see that more and more are active and building managers and citizens and are increasingly reporting, looking for funds and getting funds. A very important regulation has been adopted in parallel, and it is a technical regulation that knows exactly which building should be designed in which way and then projected to be technically stable, not to be dangerous for those living inside and not to be dangerous for those passing through these buildings. In law, we insisted on the words “transparentity. ” Why? Because we have historical stories that aren't still many closed and where you don't know exactly how the funds were invested. Every kuna that will either join the fund or go through the ministry comes from outside, from external funds, from the budget, from the budget of the state, from the budget of the City of Zagreb, from the budget of Krapina-Zagorska and Zagreb County from various donations of citizens must be known for what it is invested for. And there's already been a tender, a cost-effective that can be made in the ministry to see every kuna in the way and where it's invested. In fact, every citizen will be able to enter the portal and click on a building and see what was done in that building and how much funds were withdrawn for that building. This must also be done for those who have given money, as well as those who will definitely donate and will surely make it easier and simpler to decide that I will give the means to resolve the situation in the City of Zagreb in Krapina-Zagorje County and Zagreb County to work out public institutions, to operate both kindergartens and schools and hospitals, to arrange museums but also to get people back to their apartments as soon as possible, to have their roof over their heads. Implementation, we must not complicate between the first and second readings too much and this law must be enforceable, it must be effective. Surely something needs to be changed, primarily I agree on this about the hostage rights, it needs to be defined in some other way just to make the law easier to implement, efficient, transparent, but also to allow those people who can't really solve their situation to get out of them. This law will also be the basis for the next law that we must pass or in part of the law, in part of the law on construction or specific law for all future situations, any future potential earthquakes to know immediately how to intervene or how. But it's very important and I expect it this year from the Department of Building Management. In fact, we started it for the last year, we announced it to go to the parliamentary procedure this year, and we just prepared it before this earthquake happened, and that law obliges both owners and co-owners and building managers much stronger than the current legislative regulation obliges them to keep buildings. The law will certainly solve and the insurance problem, the buildings must be provided and all owners must treat these buildings as their own, but also as potential dangers if they are not maintained for them, as well as for other citizens passing through those buildings. We have also insisted on helping citizens in Krapina-Zagorska and they have solved the necessary accommodation, but let's get this law passed as soon as possible, I expect here in early September that there will be already a second reading and that we will be able to do so by law, not only by emergency measures, to enable our citizens what they really need. Mr. Minister, I wish you a great deal of success in the realisation of the law, about you, your people, about the whole profession that took part in the drafting of this law, and how this law will be implemented. I wish you a lot of success.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1591	We came to the end of the debate by clubs, before we go to an individual debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, a colleague of Nikola Grmoi reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1592	... It's okay. It's okay. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] Thank you, Your Honor, I'm looking for a break on behalf of the MOST Club in order to consult on some worrying announcements that we could have heard here in the assembly about increasing our citizens' fees to finance this renewal. We do not want to pay for corruption and clientelism in the City of Zagreb, we do not want to pay for irresponsible behavior, irresponsible management. We have seen the state of the infrastructure in the City of Zagreb, we know who is responsible for it. For more than 12 years, Milan Bandic in the City of Zagreb has supported HDZ by running for people who have no chance in the race, which has been directly for many years. We will not agree to the fact that the citizens of Zagreb themselves who have a very high interest, but all other citizens of the Republic of Croatia pay such corrupt management in which the key role is played by HDZ and Milan Bandic. We know who created Milan Bandic. A long-standing anti-corruption fighter in the City of Zagreb, Tomislav Jelic, once said Milan Bandic was actually a child of the SKH, a baby of the SDP and of HDZ. Enough of this, we want to break this practice, not continue to finance the money of all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and the City of Zagreb. It's time for new people, it's time to deal with corruption, and then everything will sit in place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1593	The apartment will be approved. Is anyone else picking up for a break? If we don't continue at 14 o'clock and 20 minutes. It's 2:00 P.M.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1594	[[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING AT 14:22 A.M.]] You've got quite a number, it seems we'll stay up to one, two in the night if there's not a lot of replicas, but let's take it in a row. The first one will be spoken by respected representative Ivan Domagoj Milosevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1595	I thank the Honorable Vice President of the Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues. And ever since that day of the earthquake, I've had that Churchill "Never Spend a Good Crisis" ring in my head. The crisis, in any case, is bad news, and the multiple crisis is very bad news, but I think the opportunity for a wise policy is unrelated now for which party ruling, the opposition to mobilise all of our professional, all scientific, all of our human potentials, and not only to deal with this situation as quickly as possible, and I think now we give to the earthquake as a result of this earthquake and the crown of the virus as well as to be much, much more ready for all the challenges that are ahead of us in the next years and decades and in front of our children. It is clear to all of us that much, much richer and much more developed than us would have been difficult to deal with all these challenges at the same time, and it is clear that there is a huge job ahead of us, but as the people of "Torture is known to heroes" say, and so far in these 30 years I think we have witnessed that both our people and our Government are at the highest level of the task when it is necessary. I was already in the part of the speech when I was talking on behalf of the club about what it seems to me to be three key things when it comes to recovery, construction, but also the future, so I'm going to repeat them here just a little bit. So these three key points are effective and completely transparent management of the City of Zagreb, the second strong partnership with the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the third not least, and this is an honest, honest, serious partnership with the middle and small entrepreneurs and craftsmen of Zagreb, but from all over Croatia, given the upcoming crisis. When it comes to this efficient and transparent management, I think digitization gives us today and absolutely all the tools in our hands that we can do anything transparent. Speeded modernisation, not only management but also process, decision-making processes and all processes in the city, but also in many other cities in the Republic of Croatia and the fight against corruption and clientelism. Number two, I mentioned a strong partnership with the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and I don't mean just the money from the state budget, and there's a key partnership about European money. So, in very difficult conditions, more than 22 billion euros of money has been voted for for various programmes which are for recovery from the crisis, which the EU's regular structural funds and there should certainly look for answers not only for one part of the recovery, recovery and construction of the city but for what is ahead of us, which is primarily to ensure the future for us and our children in Zagreb, in the area and throughout the Republic, so this means more money for social policies and for education and for science and for sport. But I just want to point out one more thing when we're talking about money, there's a lot of talk about money, where money like this and where it is, but money is very important, I stress very important, but still money is just a tool. The tool in hand, and these hands need to have a vision, should be a determined leadership, and we should have some basic political human values. And I've already explained the third point on behalf of the club, which is an honest, honest, transparent partnership with medium and small entrepreneurs and craftsmen. This is indeed an opportunity and this reconstruction of Zagreb and the surroundings is an opportunity for all small builders, craftsmen of Zagreb and all over Croatia, given the suspension or slowing down of investments, especially in tourism, which in the coming months and year, will be crucial to us for two days. Zagreb today is a special centre of Croatia, it has no dilemma at all, not only statisticalally but by the number of companies and everything that is going on in the City of Zagreb, but I would also like to see no reason why Zagreb would lag behind Bratislava, so I want the City of Zagreb to be also the business centre of Central and South-Eastern Europe, only by attracting new investments in the city and surrounding Zagreb can and must become both cultural, and scientific, and educational, and sports centre of that same space above all Central Europe and South-Eastern Europe. So in the end, I think that no matter how difficult the situation may be, much more difficult than that earthquake in 1880, which the earthquake at the time was the cover of the development of the City of Zagreb, the restoration, if we are proud today of the good part of those visions of that time, I expect from all of us here in the assembly and in the government or opposition, which is to be stronger, faster and better, given everything we have at our disposal and surpass the success of the 19th century. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1596	Thank you. We've got multiple replicas, the first respected representative of Angel Strike. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1597	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. A fellow Milosevic. In your debate, you stated that the reconstruction should be effective, transparent, which I absolutely agree with. And in order for something to be effective and transparent first, it needs to be recorded. And it took time to go through all these 25,000 objects, record the damage and, of course, estimate the damage that is huge, 86 billion kuna. And this is exactly the whole process I consider to be one good basis to pass a law in which all the proposals can participate so that there are as little possibilities for manipulation as possible. And when you mentioned the 1880s and the earthquake 140 years ago, then the mayor was Matija Mrazovic from my hometown. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1598	Dear Representative Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1599	Yeah, I know that fellow Uncle. I'll just answer you, so I think this law that we're discussing today and we'll still be discussing and we'll still invite our opposition colleagues to make their proposals and also to criticise the most complex law we've faced since the Homeland War, given both the circumstances and everything that happens around us after the earthquake. This law, I stress, is not a law whose idea is to collect cheap political points, to deal with the form, the idea is to deal with the very essence of reconstruction and to deal with the real problems of our citizens in Zagreb and the surrounding areas that are numerous, and I think we are all the most sensitive when it comes to home. This is about home, the homes of our fellow citizens, and I think anyone who didn't realize that solidarity is necessary or who has criticism on this 60:20 ratio I think has missed, I don't know whether geographical width, length or anything else. So if there's ever been a moment And you always have to show solidarity, it's now. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1600	The next replica of the respected representative Grozdana Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1601	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear fellow, here you have pointed out the extent of the damage, we have seen how many objects it is. Here I am concerned about the law itself in relation to private houses which, especially in the epicenter, and then wider in Krapina-Zagorje and Zagreb County, I think additional rules and programs will be prescribed by art. 35th and 36th, where if individual home owners want to be helped instead of building it to be much clearer, because according to the law itself, it is evident that a procedure that these citizens will, for example, restore their houses or build new ones will not be freed from, say, making a communal contribution, a water contribution And the rest. [[Intruder: Thank you]] So, here's... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1602	Dear Representative Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1603	Yes, of course, I, I agree with everything you've said about it, I don't have this one, and I don't really repeat everything I've said before on behalf of the club and individually.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1604	The Honorable representative Jelkovac has the next line.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1605	Thank you very much. Dear colleague, when we talk about transparency, the implementation of public procurement procedures for all services and goods will also contribute to this transparency. But I'm worried about her being in art. 41st regulation that the highest prices will be prescribed by the programme of measures, will this lead in some way to the fact that some public procurement procedures will not go away because there will be a discrepancy between what is on the market and what is prescribed by the programme of measures and whether due to the long period of renewal, the situation will lead to the fact that these prices prescribed by the programme will not always be in line with what time will bring on the market, or whether we will have to change the programme too often because of such situations or perhaps find a slightly different solution there? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1606	Dear Representative Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1607	So I'd just like to point out here for all of us, there are no perfect laws that will solve all our problems by themselves, if there were such laws in the world we'd bring these, we'd all agree together on some law and we'd become Switzerland. So people solve problems, there are sublegal acts and people who implement some programs and, and, and law enforcement can be fair, unfair, smart, unwise, stupid, whatever you want, but there's the key. So let's not expect that the absolute law of power will now provide answers to absolutely all the questions. However, it's a clear goal and it's clear meaning and I think now with all the details and... that we heard today between the government and the opposition, we're all here on the same ship, we all have the same goal, which is as fast as possible, as efficiently as possible, completely transparently including domestic small entrepreneurs and builders, make people fit their houses, buildings, homes for normal life, and be prepared for God's sakes one day some earthquake for our great-grandsons. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1608	The next replica of the esteemed MP Maximchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1609	Thank you, Vice President HS. Dear colleague, unfortunately, we often place cultural goods in the public's focus at times of threat, and that is also with this unloved earthquake. In particular, Croatian and European public have hit images of the destruction of cultural goods in Zagreb, as well as the issue of their restoration. Of course, there is a question of how to prevent such events in the future, or how to alleviate them in the future when we know that hundreds of objects that are cultural, scientific, health, educational and other institutions have been destroyed along with housing?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1610	Dear Representative Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1611	Listen, first of all, everything in your life always helps you to have money, and money is primarily a consequence of economic activity. So, on the one hand, we're all counting here and we're all going to fight, and I'm sure that our friends from Europe and the world are helping us with the grants or the cheap loans, it's already started, now, we've heard here today, and I've mentioned around here, already the first billion Euros half-refundable, half of a very cheap loan under 1% only when it comes to rebuilding Zagreb and its surroundings. But I stress, it is crucial that how quickly we will be in the next months and year for two days, I am sure that the government will do a great job that has done a great job in the past six months, saving hundreds of thousands of jobs, that, too, we will show analysis of foreign analysts, not just domestic ones, that we will have a quick recovery next year, then in this positive stopper we will come to the money that will be needed and not just for recovery from the earthquakes in Zagreb and the surrounding area.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1612	Thank you very much. The next debate will be the respected representative of Milan Vrkljan, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1613	Dear Mr. Vice President HS, reading this bill, it could be seen that more than 25,000 units in Zagreb, Sesvetima and the surroundings of Sljemen were permanently or less damaged and that of those 25 000 about 5,000 housing units were being waste at the narrow center of Zagreb and this problem of apartments, houses, it is even this proposal that was proposed and put here, in good part understandable, acceptable and with some finishing will be useful. Also for public-purpose buildings, which I mean obviously schools, kindergartens and museums and all that is the founder or owner of states. The state will co-finance or finance probably in 100% because it will agree with the City of Zagreb, and residential buildings have also touched this bill, but when it is seen that it is a very small number of objects so it is probably not a problem. What I think is a problem is that these apartments are located in the city center, over 5,000 units. In fact, we know that, we can look at various sides given by rich owners by having this property or being poor because they do not have the means to restore it, whether they were responsible or irresponsible in their lives and being in those apartments, but it is undeniable that the most often reserves do not exist and that most often there is no means to rebuild those units. Also, there are a large number of large apartments here in the center of Zagreb are apartments from 130 to 180 square meters and in one significant number of these apartments live one or two people and are most often older which are apparently not having financial resources to restore it. The law stipulates that construction procedures are being carried out, however, that it will not be likely to regulate the interior of buildings there is a danger that we have a beautiful city beautifully renewable, renovated but that our buildings are empty. And there's another problem about that, too bad there's no real minister here if I have to hand it to him in writing, namely in the whole reading of this law, no mention of the bill being proposed anywhere that there are over 5,000 apartments in the city center in the return process, these apartments were '45. taken away, their residents were kicked out of those apartments and some others moved in and a question for the legislator who is the co-rapporteur for the reconstruction process. Whether they are real owners who are trying to prove their property, but these processes are not yet completed or are the tenants who live in those apartments and the assumption is under that second bill that these tenants at some point get compensation and opportunity if they do not accept the market value of renting an apartment to get a replacement apartment which is regulated by law and the process is ongoing. So there are three problems that I see with this bill that I can solve. We, as the Homeland Movement, will support it, but this third, fourth part of the ownership of these apartments, I pray that the minister of the resolution is clearly manifested, and we also have proof of one irregularity in the electoral law that I have been talking about in the last days where you see that we have been discussing today, here we have our colleagues HDZs who have not found a single need to mention that there are 5,000 apartments in the centre of Zagreb where the owners are expelled from these apartments and where they are owners where they are trying to prove their property, here is not a single word of support for these people. If this assembly were transparent and things were an indicator of all layers and all of these political options in Croatia, then probably someone else would mention and ask for a word. We want to say that our time is up, there will be opportunities in the second debate. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1614	Thank you. We have one replica of the respected representative of Sacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1615	... Vrkljana, it is necessary to fully accelerate and do everything in our power to bring the sacral objects into operation as soon as possible. [[Specially enabled.]] They are this dimension this dimension of reconstruction is covered by the promoter but we have terrible damage in parish churches especially in subsljeme by Chucher, by Markusjevac, Remeta etc. where such damages, which the believers will not be able to participate in spiritual rituals for the next 10 years, and in this sense, we certainly commit the Proposer to find solutions in accordance with existing constitutional and legal provisions in order to to maintain spiritual needs uninterrupted. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1616	Dear Representative Vrkljan.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1617	I thank you for this replica, I'm just going to say that I support what my colleague said, but it should also be this planned renewal with this bill planned to be fair, it must be transparent, it must be transparent for both the position and the opposition. It would be best if the law were passed unanimously, if everyone in the assembly supported, and must be legally followed. We have had disasters for the last 30 years where we should have been doing renovations throughout Croatia, therefore, and that law was then passed and people were renewing their houses under one law and when you compare it to this bill it does not quite match. I would also call on the legislator not to make every time since the 7th century every time a new law that will be re-applyable for each new situation or not. So it's very important that we have a law that will be applicable in situations of natural disasters and general disasters.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1618	Thank you. The next debate will be the respected representative of Vinko Grgic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1619	Well, every building law, especially the last one we had last year, 28.12., 125/19, otherwise in Article 8. talks about basic building requirements, so I'm going to name them, there's a total of 7. The first is mechanical resistance and stability. The second is fire safety. The third is hygiene, health and the environment. The fourth is safety and accessibility during use. Fifth noise protection. The sixth management of energy and the preservation of heat. And the seventh sustainable use of natural resources. Why are we talking about this? Namely, every designer if you want to or if you have to do this, you have to get a building permit for each designer to respect these 7 points. The performer must also adhere to them and, ultimately, the applicable authorisation will be final if these 7 conditions are met. However, we must conclude that the legislator of this law has succeeded from those seven let's say by mine and only one and a half basic demands to respect. It's about mechanical resistance and stability. And secondly, that part of security and accessibility during use which is practically part of it. In fact, yesterday on the Council of Construction we heard that it was a large package of 42 billion kuna investments and reconstructions so that it got into any other part would be significantly more. The question and this value are how much we're going to succeed and how we're going to get. However, given these people living in these apartments or living in those houses, they have such a situation that it is not only if there is a change in construction, of course that this change has already been reflected on their entire home, on their apartment because it is impossible for the construction to break down or the problems in the static, and that all of this remains at the end of it. We will be very sorry if there is a recovery of the structure or reconstruction, but that the facades or frontals will remain equal, destroyed, that some other things will be as they are. And that's why we're proposing two things. One is to start by preparing a loan co-financing with favourable interest on the very people who will invest in the restoration of that apartment. And on the other hand, we're also going to co-finance energy recovery. In fact, the ministry is well-known, and one and the other model is well known. Energy recovery is a major one, or a major one. So these two models that the ministry is already working to prepare a special model for these people who have died in earthquake zones. On the other hand, a little when I read it and when I summed it up like my colleague Wrkljan said that about 6 thousand 300 buildings were destroyed or unusable or temporarily unusable, so I automatically multiplied it by 4, so I got a number of 25 thousand 312 apartments. I've got numbers in my head that it's about apartments, so it means a city like Petrinja, like Sinj or like Zapresic. It's an evicted town. But it's not true. They're buildings. That number's way higher. We unfortunately have to find out that we have received a new generation of Croatian exiles who currently have nowhere to go, either they are with friends, or they are with relatives, or they are relatively small by their dorms. Therefore, I ask the Ministry to introduce certain measures because it cannot wait, it cannot be done to release the verse which I do not believe will be, but should be normised, to control all these efforts that will be the result of this law. For example. The expert advice for rebuilding that whole story is important that their work is not to say we norm, but that we have certain reports for every month to see how many project documentation has been made, how many public procurements have started and how much of it has been realised. Because in three months we'll forget this story, and these 25 times x thousands of people will still live somewhere else. Well, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1620	Thank you. We've got replicas on your exhibit. He's the first respected representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1621	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. An esteemed colleague, if I am well aware of the law and the President of the Government has spoken of it in his own words, representing the law, it is envisaged that the constructive elements of the buildings are being restored to an existing degree, or that the buildings are being refurbished in the form in which it was previously caused by an earthquake. However, especially in older buildings and especially in the centre of the city of Zagreb, it is not enough because the structure has proved insufficient and the earthquake has disrupted its stability. However, it is envisaged if we want to apply new standards and new technological achievements that owners will have to pay for it themselves, and that is why, if you ask me, we have done a missing job. Wouldn't it be normal and better to predict that the construction is restored in accordance with the current achievements of the construction and architectural profession? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1622	Thank you. Dear Representative Grgic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1623	Thanks, buddy. Well, that wasn't clear to me, either. Practically here all morning, or all the time, I've been texting my fellow statisticians who don't know either. In particular, they do not know about the static certificate. This document does not exist easily. I was directed to the technical regulation on changes and additions to the technical regulation for constructions signed by Minister Štromar on 26 June 2020, which compare where certain static security is defined according to our standards, but now this part is completely unknown to me even though it is part of the profession at the end. I think it's still going to be that every building is defined by a certain category by norm and then it's going to go to that category that should be, so the waist says, that's what people say, and now we're going to see it. And I'm asking our secretary of state to maybe tell you about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1624	Thank you. The next is the replica of the respected representative, Vrkljan.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1625	Thank you, Mr. President. Here's a sequel to your opinion, I agree that there are a lot of strangers here, but this is the first reading of the law and I hope that the Minister of Resorial and here present his people have listened carefully to what we've all been saying and that beyond that, through this debate and until the fall of the second reading, we will get one quality law. On the other hand, I would like to say that the usual practice in democratic Western civilizations in such situations when it is a matter of real estate, one of the forms of protection and one who invests and the one to whom it is invested, so that you have a common situation in the west that someone who lives in an apartment and cannot arrange their own facade then comes the city, sends him an account, arranges that facade in a month, the whole city is as clean and neat as you can see in any city in the west, but as a liability to the burden of that apartment remains permanently worth how much editing it has been.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1626	The answer of the respected representative Grgic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1627	I agree that this first part of the story about going back to the existing situation, but we need to be aware of the fact that this existing situation has led to the destruction of existing structures, right, so it's going to invest if it stays at that level, we're going to invest 42 billion to get back to this level and don't let God shake us again to 5, 6 Richter again. So I think it's going to be a much better solution, or there's a solution to that.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1628	The next debate will be the respected representative of Miroslav Skora. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1629	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable colleagues, respected ministers, respected secretary of state, and I don't know if there's anyone else from the government here. My colleague Grbin, my colleague Grgic and colleague, Vrkljan, actually stole the debate. I didn't want to talk today about being late and the Prime Minister himself said that after the earthquake the government met within an hour and a half, that they realized that this was a priority, but they didn't feel the need to go straight into the realisation of the law or legal solutions that would help those who were affected by that earthquake, so we talked about it after 4 months, but I believe that other colleagues would talk more about it. I will not talk about the fact that in ways of funding there is much to be expected from EU funds and how Croatian citizens feel when they see that we are, in fact, at the beginning of Europe and that we, as a country that we have helped others in our own time and in that former bad state, are now waiting for others to help us. I will not talk about the effectiveness of the law because you yourself have said in so far's address many of you to, say, rebuild the Dubrovnik area and to over 40 years away from the catastrophic earthquake that hit that area, so the question is, how long will it take to break up and rebuild the area we're talking about and regulate by this law? I wanted to warn you of one fact that we here in the Croatian Parliament, as are the people in the City of Zagreb City Assembly, in the municipalities affected by the earthquake, are obliged to bring complete solutions, not partial solutions, and this seems to me to be part of a part of a part-time solution. In the very law, or preamble, there are things that point to this great illogicality. Namely, it is said that Medvednica and the surroundings of Zagreb are part of a wider seismological active space. According to geological space, the City of Zagreb is within the seismic most active zone of the inner part of Croatia. The biggest earthquake was 1880. 6.3 according to Richter, before that there was one 1502. Who says there won't be an earthquake again? We all hope not, but the law itself concludes that we are in a seismologically active area, but the law also says and predicts what colleagues have already said that the renovation will make sure that the buildings are brought into mechanical stability and at least as much as before the renovation, if possible by strengthening the structure. However, if anyone wants to, so if the co-owners of the building or the owner wants a reinforced structure in accordance with modern trends and possibilities, then he must pay for it himself or must commit to settle it himself. As if God wanted us here now we have had catastrophic floods in the City of Zagreb which are the consequence of the fact that we have a bad sewer network in the City of Zagreb above all. So, instead of discussing this law to make a complete solution in which we will, and in particular, in the earthquake of the affected area, lead to this law to prevent disaster from happening again, we will part-timely resolve it and we will discuss how much compensation someone will have, how it will happen and what is the maximum price and we will probably open up the possibility for many speculations because each of our laws has that famous decree that some kind of reference can individually make a decision on whether or not it meets any of the requirements of the law. Until the moment we talk about really improving the infrastructure in the Republic of Croatia, creating conditions for entrepreneurship, that every citizen can make a drastic step in the quality of his life, until that moment we will solve this as firefighters, and parallelly while the City of Zagreb swims and while doing nothing on the sewage network we do to a cabler worth hundreds of millions of kuna, according to some last calculations of 700 million kuna, as if we were Schladming. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1630	Thank you very much. We've got more replicas on your exhibit. He's the first respected representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1631	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleague, I must correct you. It is not a question of whether the earthquake in the City of Zagreb will happen again, but the question is when will it be? So Zagreb is located in such an area that with 100% certainty we can say that there will be an earthquake again sooner or later. And that is why, and I also stressed it in the replica of my colleague Grgić, we must insist that the modern achievements of the construction profession, modern technical solutions, which will ensure a higher degree of stability of the structure, and thus also greater protection of the tenants. I find it totally unacceptable what the Prime Minister said was that the construction was renewed to an existing degree because that the existing one was good should not even be renewed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1632	Thank you very much. The answer of the esteemed member of the Skore.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1633	Thank you very much, Mr. Grbin, here you and I still mean something, but the only difference between you and me is that I'm not such a fatalist, the fact is also that we're all gonna die one day just don't know when, right? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1634	The next replica is the respected representative of Milan Vrkljan.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1635	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I'll look back here in principle on Mr. Skora's speech and say that in a few hours of our debates he first said that this is a new opportunity, that it's not all bad, that this is an opportunity for our entrepreneurs and that Croatia is going through that cycle. However, what concerns me is that I have listened in these last few hours that some MPs have called our entrepreneurs very ugly words, so to speak, they have been reported as vultures. You can imagine, gentlemen of Parliament, unfortunately, there's no colleague here who said that when someone on TV now pays taxes, pays you, pays me and listens to him as a vulture. Then he says That they were butchers, and another expression was even that they were fascists. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Here's what we heard in the assembly today.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1636	The answer of the respected Mr. Skora. Let's please stick to the time because I repeat to you there are so many registered speakers that if, yes, and no replicas and no extension we will remain until after midnight, and maybe we will be up to 1, 2. So let's stick to time. Your Honor, Mr. Skoro.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1637	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Just like my colleague, Vrkljan, when I learned little about the principles of the economy, then I used to tell them about the key things that make us politicians in Croatia don't understand, and that's the limit of production opportunities, that's the fact that we have to make infrastructure shifts, that's the fact that these shifts, unfortunately since we're coughing for the whole world, we have to be jumpy for Europe, but what's important is to stress that this can really be a quality opportunity for a simple reason why a country like ours that controls so much wealth, which owns 60% of all economic activities that generates it all together should be in this case and must use this problem to generate the work and encourages the work of the Croatian economy, Croatian entrepreneurship and to do everything that these coins that will be invested in the reconstruction of the City of Zagreb and the earthquakes affected areas are used in the best possible way possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1638	The next is the replica of the esteemed representative of Angel Strick.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1639	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. In your debate, you dedicated a large part to the higher degree of stability of buildings. From the media, portals, social networks, we saw the most injured buildings, houses, buildings of older construction. Each unit of local self-government must come up with a spatial plan. The spatial plan defines all the building conditions where, in what way, to what degree of stability, etc., so if someone wants more and better than is foreseen by these spatial planning documents, so I think it's normal to pay for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1640	Your Honor, Mr. Skoro.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1641	Thank you very much. I agree with you that so, however, does not mean that it is good. So, I absolutely agree that if this is so regulated then we are here to change it for the simple reason that it is definitely certain that the City of Zagreb is located in a seismically sensitive area and that what is valid in some other parts of the state or in some other units of local and regional self-government is not worth it here and should use every opportunity, especially when these things happen to be further strengthened, modern technology and discoveries and development of construction and any other sciences, however much this helps citizens and tenants to create housing units and create neighborhoods that will be resistant to earthquakes, we finally know that in seismically active areas like Japan there are buildings that can endure far greater earthquakes than the one in Zagreb. We have to change that because we are in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1642	The following is the replica of the respected representative, Zarko Tušek.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1643	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Škoro, I have listened carefully to your debate and I have no doubt that your intentions are positive in general, I come from the county that suffered well in this earthquake, but you have repeatedly used one syntax, which is that the law is a partial and incomplete solution. If you have some kind of model or you know how to contribute not to be a partial solution but to be a complete solution and somehow you know how to say in a year, two or three to rebuild the 25,000 destroyed and unstable objects in Zagreb, 500 objects in Krapina-Zagorje County, 700 in Zagreb County or how to move the 86 billion kuna needed for it, here's this miraculous potion I'd really like to see and we'll all drink it warmly. It is a very complex subject and, of course, we all have to enter together our engagement and our contribution and our enthusiasm and political work to come from this stage to a stage of a solution that would possibly be more complete in the context of what you were talking about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1644	Your Honor, Mr. Skoro.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1645	First of all, I have to apologize, I can't hear you very well because it's incomprehensible, but I guess what you're talking about. So the only way for us to be more effective in these situations is to be like a state, as an economy, really stronger, so that we can handle something like that. There is no magic wand nor will there ever be a situation, nor can there be a situation for any of us, at any function he was really coming and a magic wand to solve any problem. We need to have financial strength, we need to have enough of every other potential, human potential, scientific potential, to solve this situation. Unfortunately, they happen, and when you get the law that you're waiting for for four months on the table and you read it, this is the first reading, this is my general opinion when it comes to the law, and we'll see what happens until the second reading, maybe we'll make a more complete solution, which I would personally like to do, and I believe you will.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1646	Thank you. Now, on behalf of the promoter, the word will be taken by Minister Nina Obulen Koržinek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1647	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, given these recent discussions of distinguished MPs, I think it would be useful to clarify some parts of the law so that no further debate is conducted in a direction that is not based on what is proposed. So in art. 14 Methods of rebuilding damaged buildings are envisaged by repairing non-building elements, repairing construction, strengthening construction, complete reconstruction of construction or complete renovation of buildings in accordance with technical regulation. The technical regulation was adopted by the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning and took effect by publication in the National Journal 1.7.2020, so just over 3 weeks ago and it very precisely regulates the levels of repair of non-construction elements, repair of construction, strengthening of construction and the overall level of reconstruction, depending on which the building is being built. Therefore, it is entirely incorrect that this law indicates that the buildings would return to the levels of resistance at which they were, although it may have occurred that a building which had had a sufficient level of resistance was damaged, but for some reason, the level of resistance provided for in this regulation which is in accordance with the Eurocode and will then be restored in such a way, but it has been communicated all the time, and this technical regulation also leads to the strengthening of the structure. I will repeat, the largest percentage of the buildings is in the cultural and historical part of the city of Zagreb building which in most cases has never been restored in a way that by investing in their construction reconstruction in a way that strengthens their anti-quake resistance. Therefore, this technical regulation, which has been passed in the meantime, is crucial and the law enforcement will be based on this technical regulation.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1648	Thank you very much. We have a replica of a respected representative called Brumnic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1649	Your Honor, ma'am. Corkinec. Yesterday, the minister, today the prime minister said exactly what his colleagues point to. When you read the law as it's written, it turns out that the state will resuscitate to a minimum, that minimum... I agree that what you're saying would be what we'd all like, but I'm telling you, listen to the Prime Minister's speech today, listen to yesterday's speech on the board. I pointed out that yesterday. And from that comes, where does the logic of writing in the law come from, and if you want more, then pay. Well, I guess the state will pick out what's best and that, let's say to resuscitate or pay. Then there's no need for citizens to pay for any additional renewal or other. The reconstruction of the structure. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1650	Thank you. The reply of the Honorable Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1651	If I can only react to that, then this difference relates to the fact that the highest level of security is provided for public buildings and specific public buildings, therefore, hospitals, different facilities, etc. You, if you want to raise your level of structural or resistance from that level that is technically set up for multi-state buildings to an even higher level, you can project this and that is the difference. However, all construction reconstructions that will be carried out in accordance with this law will be carried out in accordance with the technical regulation which provides for a level of resilience for multi-state buildings, which will generally be higher than what is now the case because this is imposed by the very insight into the state of these buildings and this is quite clear from the technical regulation, so I suggest that it be carefully read, and in the article of the law calls for technical regulation.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1652	Thank you. The next debate will be respected MPs Mirela Ahmetovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1653	Thank you very much, Vice President of HS, fellow MPs and MPs. More than four months after the earthquake, we got this bill, finally. Why? Because it was important for the rulings to take advantage of the favourable situation for them and more importantly than for the citizens of the city of Zagreb, but also for these two remaining counties to make life normal. I'm sad because only two sessions of the law-making expert group were held almost four months ago. So much for how worried we were about rebuilding the objects affected by the earthquake. But also, I'm pleased, we finally have such a bill. However, I must highlight the lack of laws, at least those at the principle level, which are, of course, transparency and non-transparency and environmental protection. As regards transparency withdrawn from the non-transparentity of public spending on state and local, especially local, it is important in each and in this proposal of the law to ensure transparency of spending and state and city money and thus to provide information to whom, to whom, for what purpose, when, from which budget items, it pays something to restore it. These are huge-value deals and must not be a polygon for the robbery of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. The law does not foresee this kind of transparency, nor does the control of the purposeful use of paid budget money, no matter how much the prime minister has sworn in transparency today or this morning. For example, for cases of art. 35th and 36th, and it's about paying off financial aid instead of rebuilding. The risk is that the unintended spending of this money by the owner of the damaged property remains, in fact, unrenewed and poses a threat to the safety of citizens. As far as environmental protection is concerned, The 10th Regulation provides for the content of the first programme of measures and does not provide for environmental protection measures which would detail the process and method of storage and processing and reuse of construction waste. It is important here to stress that the environmental protection segment is ignored, there is no regulatory mechanism for the control of proper disposal of waste from the aspect of possible acquisition of non-acquired property benefit by the contractors or third parties who will treat, sort, recycle and reuse the waste. As regards the funding model, the draft law proposes to finance the costs of reconstruction in proportions 60:20:20. The SDP has proposed co-financing in the proportions that would include the City of Zagreb and these two counties, Krapina-Zagorska and Zagreb County have increased since the damages incurred in these areas are precisely and it is simply not logical to pay most of the costs from the funds accumulated by all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. I remind myself once again that, because this is extremely important in these extraordinary, but also in the ordinary circumstances, the City of Zagreb has wasted millions of kunas of budget supplies intended for this very situation, which is a small share when it comes to the necessary funds for reconstruction, but it is a strong indicator of the behaviour of the city as a drunken millionaire, the city and its mayor as a drunken millionaire, while other units of local self-government have been responsible for the money of citizens, and now they have to pay Bandic's escapades. In addition, the law also requires the introduction into the law of the obligation to pay reserves for renewed facilities based on a minimum mandatory amount per metre of a square apartment so that in such or similar cases buildings do not happen because they become far more sensitive to such situations, and then in such situations all the taxpayers of the Republic of Croatia, including those who pay and maintain their buildings, must jump to help. To conclude and repeat, I welcome that a bill has been adopted at last 4 months since the earthquake, but the proposal needs to be completed in a way that ensures the conditions of renewal, but based on the real solidarity measure of the rest of the Republic of Croatia towards the City of Zagreb, which has been untransparently and irresponsiblely managed. Then in a way to ensure a fairer relationship of the rich compared to the poor, responsible compared to the irresponsible, property owners of course I mean, by entering the property censorship and by paying the housing reserve. Also in a way that property owners are bound to pay for housing reserves and earthquake insurance policies. I would like the result of this law to be a transparent, fair and thorough reconstruction of Zagreb. All the things that the citizens of Zagreb did not have all these years because of the trade cooperation between HDZ and Bandic Mayor both in the assembly and in the City of Zagreb, now is the time to show responsibility, the level of responsibility you did not show when you took political advantage of Milan Bandic because he blackmailed you most of the time in the assembly, so Zagreb is today and otherwise in chaos. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1654	Thank you. And there are several replicas on your exhibit, the first respected representative called Brumnic, right? ... Great, the next replica is the respected representative of Maria Jelkovac. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1655	Thank you. Dear colleagues, you have stated that there will be no concern about respecting the principle of environmentalism, but I must tell you that it is in the article. 43. As regards the storage of construction waste, which you were actually talking about, as prescribed in Article 2(2), that storage will be carried out in accordance with a special regulation, with respect to the principle of the circular economy on the proposal of the Ministry of Environmental Protection, which means that your finding does not stand. Similarly, as regards transparency when you spoke about the granting of financial assistance, you said that there is no provision anywhere and whether it will be transparent, I must say that this aid, as prescribed by this law, will only be allocated for eligible costs, and the decision on this will be made by the fund in the process in which it will determine that these costs are indeed incurred. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1656	Dear representative Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1657	Since I come from JLS where the Ministry of Environmental Protection is particularly busy, I know very well about their efficiency and control of disposal and construction waste amongst other things, and I am not talking about everything else, so I am absolutely standing by that there is not enough attention to the protection of the environment, and especially if we are saying that the programme is being adopted as the first in which the list of activities in the programme is not exactly the most important segment of environmental protection, and that I am not talking about that the polygon for corruption and non-transparency is precisely in the disposal of waste. As for the transparency and control of the spending of public funds, you know very well what transparency I mean, and I mean that every citizen who pays, and pays for the purpose of restoring the City of Zagreb, should know what he paid, who he paid for, for what purpose he paid for, for what purpose he paid for, without any dilemma, everything else is not transparency for me and do not try to deceive citizens about transparency when there is no.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1658	The next replica of the respected representative Grozdana Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1659	Dear colleagues, you are burdened with corruption, I do not know what you are so burdened with, the City of Zagreb exists over, in, in, in the consolidation of forces over 20 g. When Mr. Bandic became mayor. So it can't be said that nothing is wrong and the earthquake is an elemental disaster that would cause other cities and maybe your God forbids the city to be destroyed so much that it would raise the question at all what you've been doing all those years. Therefore, all of this here where it is said that within 30 days, the programme of measures will be after the adoption of the law will be adopted a programme of measures, also after 15 days, the Government will adopt these programmes referred to in Article 10 within 15 days of the proposal for a programme more than clearly that it is trying in a very high-quality, fast and efficient way exactly what many others would not achieve in a very long time.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1660	Thank you. Dear representative Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1661	Your Honor, I am not burdened with corruption, but your party is very burdened with corruption if we speak in that practical sense. And you contributed to that by supporting Mr Milan Bandic. I don't know why you are so opposed to the possibility of introducing transparency of spending billions, billions of kunas of Croatian citizens' money. The one who doesn't hide anything has no problem getting the information out. And I'm gonna keep doing that and I'm never gonna give it up. I don't have a problem with that. In my unit of local self-government all citizens, so you can see where, when, why, how much and why they spent and from which budget items. As far as environmental protection is concerned today in the 21st century, it is an urgent item of the first programme of measures and activities on this law, and I would like the Minister of Environmental Protection to explain why it is not in the first programme. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1662	... The individual debate will be a respected representative of Zvonimir Troscott. [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1663	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, distinguished MPs and MPs, we would like to present some of the risks we see about the law as a representative's club. We've already touched first of all the funding model 60, 20, 20. First of all, according to some analyses and reports of experts, the total cost of this entire project, or the Law on the Reconstruction of Zagreb, would amount to some 11 billion euros, with 60% of which would be financed by some 50 billion kunas by the Croatian state, 16 City of Zagreb and the rest of the population. Also some 16 billion euros. First of all, from the presentation of our Prime Minister, Mr. Plenkovic, we saw that the Croatian government was able to prepare some kind of 700 million package. However, this is insufficient in view of some perhaps 7.8 billion, 6.6 billion compared to 50 billion that the state should finance. So we're talking already at the very beginning about some 8 times less funds than those financed by the state compared to what is suggested and what is prepared. However, this is not the only problem we see in this funding model. We've already touched something during the club's presentation. So, 20% of the funding from the City of Zagreb, the City of Zagreb will not be able to finance it. We also touched the bonds taken by the City of Zagreb for environmental infrastructure back in 2007, in 2017 the bond was reprogrammed. It means it's not returned. As for the very purpose of the bond, the purpose was to expand gas, water supply and waterproof infrastructure. We saw now for the weekend that we had a situation that our citizens in Trnje bathed, played water polo and unfortunately swam in feces. Which means the question is, where did the money from that bond go? And what can certainly still happen, that at the end of 2023 we will become in a situation that we will remain without infrastructure and without the money of 2 billion kuna and 300 million euros, respectively, as the initial primary issue of that bond on the capital market was. The second thing I see as an even bigger problem is that our government's national strategy has seen that the earthquake as such to this situation has not been taken seriously or taken into account as in terms of national security, which is very worrying since we are in a rather dangerous seismic space and we are exposed to spaces like the whole region. We have, a year ago there was a serious earthquake in Albania. Then we have earthquakes in Montenegro in 1979 that killed Dubrovnik. And we still have that earthquake in Stone. Our houses on the coast in Dalmatia are stone and old and it would be a big problem if there was an earthquake in the region as well. Furthermore, Italy was affected by major earthquakes, and I was quite surprised by Prime Minister Plenkovic's statement when he referred to Molize where several dozens of children had to die unfortunately in order for Italy to realize that the need to increase awareness of the dangers of the earthquake was necessary. And today they invest over a billion euros annually, both in terms of awareness of earthquakes and restoration of Italy as a whole. We would also like to point out the danger of seizing property and land, and it would be very good to protect these lands so as not to rob them. We thought the same way as the club, it would be very good to set up an institute at national level. There is no regional seduction because it is a matter of national security. This institute should not act exclusively post-festum. However, also in the case of a festtum, in the sense that certain constructions would require, in the case of construction, certain seismological certificates where the institute would then be valued and calibrated, if indeed all the variables in the case of earthquakes were taken into account in the construction of a particular property. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1664	Thank you very much. We have one replica of the respected representative Ante Kujundzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1665	Thank you, Vice President. I welcome, colleague, the government's decision to step up to help people who are hit by such an elemental disaster. However, I would like to say one other thing, according to our Slavonia to the bottom of our Dalmatia and Zagor, we have a whole series of various forms of elemental disasters, whether in terms of people who have OPGs, whether in the sense of closing factories because of the poor policies of pe here the state has not intervened, but hopefully, after this law and in the future, it will take the same attitude that all citizens of this country would at least in one sense have similar, if not the same approach. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1666	Dear Representative Troscott.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1667	I'd just like to get one more thing. Since we won't have the money to rebuild all things, we've been thinking as a club to at least take strategic facilities, for example our national hospitals like St. The spirit, Petrova and Vinogradska that are located in a derutical state. In the opinion of experts who have divided these facilities into 4 categories, so from the first of the reparation to the whole reconstruction of the facility, it is considered in a concrete sense whether these hospitals should be reparated, except that it is extremely expensive or on the other hand to make the overall renewal of these hospitals. What we think is, as a club, that it would be very good to go into the whole restoration, to set up very good statics so that at least such institutions as our hospitals that we have managed to maintain themselves in situations of next devastating earthquakes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1668	Thank you. The next debate will be the respected representative of Stephan Bartulic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1669	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I will not enter the technical issues of this proposal, I will leave it to others at the club, but as far as this whole financing concept of Zagreb is concerned, I will remind you that the inhabitants of Zagreb are already spending a lot of money each year on the city budget and we see these days unfortunately in which the irresponsible way is managed by the city. We now have a situation where something must be done and it may be an opportunity to really restore the old city core, to advance in a modern way or this may be an opportunity for new abuses from various stakeholders because unfortunately experience in Croatia shows that often taxpayers' money is spent in an untransparent and irresponsible way. So unfortunately, we have reason to be skeptical in implementing the future law. However, some things are already pretty vague. I asked the prime minister a question this morning about the article in Art. 39. mention is made of a research institution for construction which would be authorised to carry out technical and financial control of projects. It's not clear what it's about, what kind of body it's going to be, what kind of intelligence it's going to have, etc. I'd also like to remind you that there's a problem of hijacking property from '45. A year. As far as I'm concerned, there are still over 5,000 requests for the return of that property and then the question arises whether these former owners of these apartments will be involved in any way in the implementation of the future law, will they, for example, be involved. The tenants are able to make their own contracts with contractors to rebuild buildings past former owners, so is it intended in any way to include them? These requirements are also said to be in the process in Croatia, it takes almost 30 years, we do not know the outcome, but it should be noted that their interests would also be said because in a very illegal way, the immoral way that this property was kidnapped in Zagreb in 1945, it would be good to take care of that too. So, in the end, I'd say just without going into possible technical solutions, I think it's a good thing that no law like this will be passed so quickly that it's so important and includes such amounts. If the information is correct that the reconstruction could cost around 11 billion euros, it should also take into account the interests of all taxpayers. This 60-20-20 ratio will be seen whether a balance has been reached, so the question is why would Croatian citizens across the country to this extent finance the restoration of private property of other people? I think that's what we need to discuss. And in the end, I say, the experience unfortunately shows that often because of the customer model management, certain groups benefit much more from the new laws and then the general well costs out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1670	Thank you very much for your exposure. We have more replicas. The first is the respected representative Vidovic Kristo. Here you go. I'd like to ask you nicely to put on a mask.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1671	Thanks for the recommendation.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1672	Look, I'd like to ask you nicely to put on a mask, we all have masks here only you don't have
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1673	You will now speak again in truth about masks, and when the other day here is a fellow representative.../incomprehensible/... HDZ without a mask, and fellow SDP deputies warned him to put on a mask, you warned the opposition MPs not to bother him, and you didn't, not to warn him, but to tell him anything, you let him say it to the end without a mask on his face. And now you're warning me with your recommendation, I thank you for your recommendation...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1674	Yeah, because you, you're the only ones who don't wear a mask from everyone here.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1675	But what that argument means to you, you're the only one, I don't really understand you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1676	Well, I don't know how else to say it in English.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1677	Let me, let me confirm this and point out this injustice and property that has not been returned, we've heard 5,000 apartments. For four years, this government, all the governments of the past, I think it's an outrageous injustice, that it must be corrected and not just involving these people, can be asked the question of this civilization's reach in which it may be possible to damage those families.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1678	Thank you very much, I still ask you to put on a mask, indeed today we have also held a session of the Presidency and it is recommended that session of the Bureau of Parliament that we all have a mask, unanimously. So I'm asking you nicely to put on a mask by the only one who doesn't wear a mask.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1679	Allow me, may I answer yours for what you said?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1680	The next replica, no, no, you can't, the answer of the respected representative Bartula.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1681	I'm just going to confirm again that this injustice that has happened has not been corrected, and these actions are really taking too long without me getting into the details right now. But all the time it's been said about judicial reform, about effective justice, about the conduct of justice, but unfortunately it's too rarely happening to the work.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1682	Next is the replica of the respected representative Nadj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1683	Thank you very much. You said it was good not to pass this law quickly. Well, it's been four months since the devastating earthquake, and the D.A. started a task force, so this task force was supposed to meet daily, break the law, we should've had it on the table a long time ago. Do you think it's all about these citizens who are living in tenants and friends or everywhere that we haven't even discussed here in the first reading of the bill? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1684	Honorable representative of Bartulic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1685	Thank you. I did not question, therefore, the importance of the adoption of this law, it would be good to discuss it as soon as possible, but given the extent and amount of money that it is concerned, I think it is not good for it to be passed quickly because it can, we can also contribute to its debates to improve it. I'm not convinced that this money will be spent in a transparent way so we have to take care of it. I am aware that the situation is difficult for many and that this waiting for many of our fellow citizens is not easy, but we need to take care of the interests of all taxpayers and bring as much quality as possible and, more clearly, better defined law.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1686	The next replica is the respected MP Nikolic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1687	Well, thank you very much. Dear Vice-President of the Assembly, MPs and MPs, you forgot to mention that when you mentioned that old core that when building in that old part of town, if it is protected culturally well, and if there are plans, say urban plans, details are defined such as building height, functional integrity. Will the construction of the building, for example, 55 m2 will meet all of the above conditions? Then, since the replacement facility does not have a construction permit, will the main projects be delivered to public authorities on conditions and will the confirmations of the main project be obtained? You didn't say that.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1688	Honorable representative of Bartulic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1689	Here I have not entered these details, I think the question is wrongly addressed to me, it should be directed to the Government to propose this bill they will take care of the implementation and these details you mentioned, not me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1690	The next replica is the respected representative Ivanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1691	Thank you very much, Vice President. I am not from Zagreb and I am too happy to pass the Law on the Reconstruction of Zagreb after a catastrophic earthquake, but I am concerned about a syntagma that is being imposed here, which is who will steal the money on the reconstruction of the City of Zagreb. I would be delighted if in 2014, we had passed a law on the restoration of the County Posavina when a good part of the County Posavina was flooded and disastrously destroyed in large floods, but we never discussed how the reconstruction was then carried out and how the transparency of the spending of state money was carried out.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1692	Honorable representative of Bartulic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1693	Thank you. I hope we can learn something from experience. So, this restoration that you mention also unfortunately showed various abuses of that opportunity and all the trouble for many people, many have used to earn what they could not under normal market circumstances. So we need to be aware that any trouble opens up and this possibility unfortunately that individuals who are well networked will take advantage of the opportunity, it is a large amount of money that will be spent through what period and we need to prevent possible abuses in advance and ensure as transparent a way to implement them as possible. That's what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1694	The next is the replica of the respected representative Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1695	Dear colleague, you mentioned the problem of tenants who are in apartments, so protected tenants who are in the apartments of some owners who are not returned. This law does not define that part, defined by the House Rental Act, where it has been since August, it seems to me, in 2018, defined in which deadlines and when these protected tenants are required to make certain procedures to get out of those apartments, to be freed or adequately taken care of. Therefore, this law will define for everyone, as well as for all other ways of intervening in constructive parts of the building and all that needs to be done, and it seems to me that it is there under that current law until 2023, so that you and such tenants decide how they will resolve their housing issues. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1696	Honorable representative of Bartulic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1697	I'll repeat, I just asked a question, so who are the future contracts to perform these papers with? So will this group of former owners be involved in any way or not? Whether it was thought of, is it possible that this property could return to them, we don't know the outcome of certain cases. So, I think that, that's a very legitimate question and this law, at least in this draft, is not at all considered, that's what I wanted to point out.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1698	Thank you very much. The next debate will be the respected representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1699	I thank the esteemed Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Let me first have one observation that concerns the very foundation of this law, which is how the reconstruction will be financed. Dear colleagues and colleagues, some of us here have forgotten that we have sworn an oath to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia which in Article. 1. says the Republic of Croatia is a social state, and the social states have no solidarity and no justice. Solidarity, for example, shown by the Zagrebers when war-renewing areas were to be restored, including private assets lost in the war. The solidarity shown by the Zagrebs when the property was to be refurbished, when houses were to be renovated in floods along the Sava coast. Solidarity to which the Zagrebans today have the full right and solidarity which tomorrow or the day after that they have the right to expect from the Splits, the Pulegans, the Fumans and all the third ones to whom, and God forbid that it should happen, some kind of natural or some other disaster. Without solidarity, there is no social state. Without a social state, there is no security for all of us living in it. A country where everyone is left to the market and to take care of themselves without the help of others is a state that cannot survive. Now allow me to return to the very concrete content of this law. As we said in our first reading, we in the SDP will support this law because this law is to be passed, but this does not mean that we have no objections to it and that the adoption of these remarks will ultimately result in our position in the second reading, or should we support the final draft of the law. So let's take the turn. The first problem, the bodies foreseen by law, the professional advisory fund, they must be clearly defined by this law, cannot be left to the contract, and cannot also be led by a person with another government duty. At the head of the council, there must be a person whose job will be the only job because the job for advice will be too much. The Council and the Fund must also appoint HS, and representatives of the opposition must be elected in the work of both bodies. Next problem, a programme to restore the historic urban whole of Zagreb, left almost exclusively to the City of Zagreb without clear control systems and supervision by other state bodies. The office of the City of Zagreb will bring it, the de facto reconstruction of the centre of Zagreb will be conducted by Zagreb, we know that the programme must be brought within the short deadlines, do not be angry, but that is exactly what Milan Bandić will put under his paw and is not something to be proud of. Mortgages, registered on the entire building, making it very difficult for the tenants to raise funds, especially in an unfavourable situation, those tenants who may have provided the funds, but their other neighbors will not, and according to this law, the mortgage is entered into their share. In land books, it is very clear what is a special part of the property, the one that has not provided the funds, the mortgage, not all the tenants of the building, should be entered. Also, I am not sure that it is very clear in the law who will then temporarily provide the 20% that should be borne by the owners, whether the city, whether the state or whether the county and state, should be fully clearly indicated. The problem of relatives, the laws are overly defined. We can all imagine a situation where, say, grandparents are in a home, and grandkids live in real estate. This property will not be able to be applicable to the whole range of refurbishment situations provided for by law. Relatives for the purposes of this law should be defined by the vertical line and to the first degree of the tariff, so please correct it, it is especially a problem if you look there at the replacement property. And for the very end, protected tenants, a category that is completely discriminated against by this law. First, they keep growing their rent. Secondly, they do not provide for a permanent solution but in 2023 they go from a property in which they will be temporarily located, completely unacceptable, for them must be provided with a permanent housing programme which, according to the House Rental Act, has not been revived at all. And the final question to the authorities, when can we expect the start of emergency construction? for temporary accommodation? [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1700	We also have on your presentation of several replicas, the first respected representative of Nina Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1701	Honorable Vice President of the Parliament, honourable MPs. I would only replicate on the thought of clouding the concept of solidarity and one comparison that does not stand. It is unmistakable solidarity with cities that have been destroyed by war because war is something that concerned everyone that was fallen by Karlovac, if Vukovar had fallen Zagreb would have experienced either Pula the same or similar fate of destruction. I don't think anyone in this House today, and I followed all the debates, was talking about our fellow citizen whose only roof is over his head in the centre of Zagreb not being solid. But we'll see what happens to the property censors. I do not think that healthy and normal solidarity is that people who take into account the positional value of these properties, who are on average poorer than the residents of the center of Zagreb,... pay to raise the value of their abandoned property, which is second, third, fourth or fifth. So I'm not talking about people whose only roof is over their heads. I don't think it's necessary to cloud the concept of solidarity in this sense, but to clearly distinguish social criteria from something that's not fair to increase values... Thank you. [[You don't understand.]] [[Thank you. The answer of the respected representative/]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1702	A representative of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1703	My colleague, I don't mean to say "honored" because after this debate, you didn't do it for me. What's the difference for someone maybe your brother, maybe my uncle, or whoever his house blew up with a grenade compared to his future if his house blew up? What's the difference? She's gone for me. The state if it really is going to be social must be solidarity with one and the other, and then it must be all of us citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Solidarity means helping those who have suffered in the earthquake situation without their own guilt, without their own guilt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1704	The next is the replica of Representative Grman Kizivat.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1705	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague... I fully agree with you. I think this law excludes solidarity as regards the citizens of the City of Zagreb, Zagreb County and Krapina-Zagorska if citizens have to pay 20% in order to restore their real estate or to settle their stock on that property, what about those people who are already in credit and that property in the earthquake is destroyed how will they get a new credit debt if they are already in credit? And what about those who will be able to raise that part of the loan, will they get preferential interest rates, privileged loans that are with them? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1706	Honorable representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1707	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleagues. As if you knew that part because of a five-minute limit I failed to mention and thank you for allowing me to say exactly what the problem is about not only the mortgage, but also the amount of this 20%. Of course, when you define something as flat-rate as 20%, which is, of course, a flat-rate determination, but some determination must be, then you have to establish certain corrective criteria that will help those who, for very objective reasons, can't collect 20% in any way. Because otherwise we're going to open up the possibility that in the city center, primarily in the city center where the buildings and the most injured are caused by speculation with real estates that will be bought out by the Buddha why only because people can't co-finance their restoration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1708	Thank you. The next replica is respected MPs Vucilovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1709	Thank you. You told us that solidarity is the foundation of a social state and that social states have no solidarity. Let me correct you because there are no social states without high taxes. And given that the level of tax burden in Croatia is quite high, it could be said that Croatia is already a very socially sensitive state.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1710	Honorable representative of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1711	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. By trying to understand your replica, I cannot say anything other than that taxes and services would be redistributed first of all, and that is another constitutional provision I recommend you read a very interesting text, which is a constitutional provision that says everyone is obliged to contribute according to their capabilities. This means that those who have more should pay more in order for the state to provide an equal chance for everyone, in order to somehow compensate the state for someone having worse starting positions for any reason. This is where the worse starting positions are that the earthquake brought your house down. And if in a situation where an earthquake breaks your house you can't expect solidarity then I ask you when you can, when.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1712	Thank you. The next debate will be a respected representative of Nina Rasdic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1713	Thank you. The general atmosphere before this law was passed was determined by two factors, with two bribes I would say better. One they've been propagating by ruling, which is that there's some kind of big money and that money isn't the problem. And the second is that he pushed part of the opposition almost cult law-making. As we need to pass the law and everything will be fine. More could and should have been done by the existing Law on Construction and the Law on the Facilitation and Elimination of the Consequences of Natural Disasters. It was possible for people to settle in state, city dwellings, to clean up the ruins, to commit democracy, protection from collapse, and a lot of other things. A one - time financial aid could be given to those who made the first repairs themselves. At the end of the interphase, we saw misunderstandings between the important part of the profession. Here I am also talking about the academy and the professional associations of architects above all who refused to enter various ad hoc committees and counselling. Later there was some half-assionation, but there was still a higher suspicion of the profession. The only news of this bill is the fund. A fund that will become a state-owned company with the largest budget in the Republic of Croatia. It's not clear who's overseeing the fund's work and how. They're not clear on his authority, his responsibilities and his structure. Who's gonna pick the performers? I'm going to give a little example of some vagueness and possible manipulations that can come out of the law, which is an art. No. 41st century 2. where it is said that the highest prices for works and services and goods will be determined. However, this does not guarantee efficient and economic spending of public funds because cheapest materials and cheapest works can be done at that maximum price. So, by itself, he doesn't guarantee anything. My colleagues from the Bridge today talked about a proactive approach, so whether extra value can be created, frozen capital, which is primarily Donji City in Zagreb and this added value can be financed by reconstruction. It seems in the end that everything a little bit in this law is regulated so that, in the future, we will have a lot of changes, additions, implementing regulations and so on. things. Since Alan Ford has become relevant literature lately and at higher levels than the parliamentary representative, here I am also going to take advantage of the example of Superhik. Some are already talking about a superhic law that would partly take away the poor to give to the rich. It does not include property-legal issues which seem crucial, especially in the centre of Zagreb and what is the biggest problem is that there is no strategic approach. There are no urban views and reviews because Donji City is not just one city district, it determines the dynamics of life throughout Zagreb, in which are the most significant cultural and other institutions of the Republic of Croatia, so this should be considered much wider. Of all the people I have consulted in this regard, I am most impressed by what an urbanist has written to me, so I will quote it. To lead the reconstruction of Zagreb under this law, the duration of at least 10 years, with no evaluation of the totality of its urban system, without vision and development strategy in changed conditions and awareness of the restoration story of construction and money management through public procurement is a great sin. Sin not only professionally, but, I would say, in both moral and civic terms. And as for the esteemed colleague of the coat of arms who left the assembly, he denied me an epithet that is a formal, respected, or respected representative because he disagrees with what I said, he talks enough about his home education. So I'm not talking about the only roof over my head, there's a need for absolute solidarity. I just said that there are people who have a series of properties in the centre of Zagreb, have not paid some of them insurance, have not maintained them, and now, through taxes that would be chosen from people who are worse than them across Croatia, should be paid de facto increase in the value of their private property. Maybe for a fellow coat of arms, he was experiencing war, homely as some natural disaster, so there, there was neither guilty nor responsibility, etc., I don't look at it, but even if it could be compared, the example I was talking about was roughly like this, hit a grenade of the neighbors' "Stoyadin" and destroyed it. And now you're taking money from all of us who drive Fitzeke to buy Mercedes for him, and he had Stojadin. It's from a derusting building that hasn't been invested in for decades, now that it's made by all seismological standards in a way that 80% comes from public funds. That's what it's all about, and that's the super-hykovic dimension, nobody mentioned our fellow citizens whose only roof is over their heads, and I'm going to point out, it's not just about the center of Zagreb, it's about the settlements. And in Dubrava, and in the Councils, and in others. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1714	Thank you. We have a replica of the respected representative Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1715	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleague, you said you didn't know who would oversee the Fund because it wasn't prescribed by this law. This law provides for the establishment of the Fund and the establishment of the Fund, in a decision on establishment, will prescribe everything that is related to both the establishment and the supervision of the work of the institution established. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1716	Dear Representative Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1717	I'm going back to this element that I pointed out was all regulated. So it's and sleeps that whoever starts the fund will organize everything to control those funds. The ministry itself doesn't have that capacity because it's so much work that just a lot of control will take to control it all. What we can hope for is that the matter will be absolutely transparent and that today, easy digitisation of everything that is spent by public funds will be immediately available online. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1718	The next debate will be respected representatives of Vesna Vucilovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1719	I'd like to thank the vice president of HS, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. The law that the government presented today is definitely better than what we have seen so far, but here, this debate already shows that some elements are missing and besides, as the prime minister said, there are still areas where it could improve. It's a huge amount of funding, I have to look back at that financial part of the bill, where the total amount is about some 86 billion kuna, and when we talk about this part of the construction, it's 42 billion kuna or 10.5% of GDP in 2019. If we apply 60% to that smaller amount, it's 25 billion kuna or 6% of our GDP. And this is what we are coming up with is this famous concept of solidarity, which was spoken of by the esteemed colleague Grbin, who I have no major problems with, although I come from Slavonia, for which the government has launched the project Slavonia in the past term and where GDP per capita is at 35% of the EU average, which is significantly less than it is in the Republic of Croatia. And the question arises is solidarity which is really necessary in these situations, but to what extent and how. We also heard about the presentation of the government programme for the next 4 years that these differences between Croatian regions are large and that new programmes will be launched and for other areas because they have problems and are not at the level of development they should be at. The fact is that in this model a large part of Croatian citizens will participate in the reconstruction of the City of Zagreb. Of course, the question arises whether it should be in that proportion or perhaps in someone else? Let me remind you that the budget of the City of Zagreb is 11.5 billion kuna. The proceeds are still a famous holding company of another 3 billion kuna, 8 billion kuna goes to pay and to material costs. Which means that if you look at the revenues, the budget of the City of Zagreb and the income of the holding company is around EUR 2 billion a year because they are not small funds. We've often heard here that this situation compares to the one we had at the flood in Gunya. I don't think these comparisons are in place because the fiscal capacity of Gunja and the City of Zagreb is definitely not the same. Of course, the City of Zagreb cannot carry this out alone, but neither should the fiscal capacity of the City of Zagreb be underestimated. There has been a lot of talk about the transparency of me here more interested in installing domestic products as much as possible in, during the renovation and thus initiating our construction sector which will definitely run other conukturic cycles especially in this time of economic crisis which is already here, is not before us, but is already here. And you should see what it means with that whole renovation. Here we are talking only about rebuilding the structure because let's remember when it was offered to the citizens of Zagreb to rebuild their facades the share of co-financing was 80% and again the 20% were too many. And of course I have to finally look back on that social component that isn't here in this law. So there's a lot missing here. What is the share of public buildings, which is the share of private buildings, in these private buildings also means residential buildings, how much is the only real estate that is exclusively for housing, and how much is there for different commercial purposes than renting, etc., means the law is not bad but should certainly be improved and complemented with a whole series of elements related to both financing and the social component that is not incorporated into this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1720	Thank you very much. Next, the next exhibition will be a respected representative of the name Brumnic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1721	Dear colleagues and colleagues, the esteemed vice president of the last few hours, has been beginning to share the public in some way in a way I would say an ugly way, to whom something belongs, who needs help, who doesn't need help and spread some kind of impatience to the citizens who have died in this earthquake. I would invite all of us here to try as much as possible to prevent such a debate or get away from it. In the City of Zagreb, a part of the people who have, but also a large part of the people who do not have live and I think listening to this debate is not pleasant for them. Nor is the purpose of this debate supposed to be some sort of individual. But now let's go back to the law itself. What's in the part where the meaning of this law is missed is a partial renewal that's being talked about here. Mrs. Obulen tried to explain at one point that what we all read, and the waist doesn't say so, I would really like to get the written answer then exactly how they imagined it then so that we could present it further. What I think is a big problem is the fact that the overall reconstruction of the city blocks should be managed systematically because the reconstruction of the city blocks that are protected is not only a question of the constructive resistance of these blocks, or buildings, but it is also some kind of tourist potential of the City of Zagreb. What is in fact in some way the most controversial in the law itself is the social component of the law, a few colleagues mentioned in their debate that there are people in this city who are not even these 20% who should be able to provide, so that the legislator should consider introducing a certain social censorship to say how much we are renewing everyone, and then saying that a certain part of the citizens is excluded to a certain limit or to the fullest extent of their co-chair in that renewal. Yesterday I noted, after that I went once again to read the law and I must admit I can't agree after that, it's a collapse based on an inspection solution, first it's said about the consent to tear down for the replacement facilities needs everyone's consent, and then if you don't get the consent of all then the object can be torn down by the basis of an inspection solution. It's like one of those little marifetteluks where someone who's going to be held accountable to take down a certain building will simply request inspection, get an inspection solution for the demolition, and not all co-owners will be equally compensated. Also a replacement facility which does not need a technical object. What's the point? We're building a replacement facility, we're building it by all the rules that we have or which are currently in force, and then at the end of that process, we don't need a technical solution because yesterday it was explained that it was this simple. I think that simplicity can be solved differently so that technical solutions simply accelerate. And then another thing, a government budget payment with a fund that exists. The very purpose of the state budget is pointless, if we will have a fund that will raise money and then allocate that money then the payment of whether the money received from insurance or the share of 20% of the citizens who will participate in co-financing the renovation of their facility should not go into the state budget but into the fund. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1722	Thank you. We've also got a report on your replication. He is the first respected representative of Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1723	Your Honor. I have a replica, and I quote you're talking about "expanding impatience towards people who died in an earthquake". Who spread impatience toward the people who died in the earthquake, what people? So please be specific, we need to seriously discuss the principle of solidarity here. I'll repeat, I haven't heard from anyone today in the debate that he said no help is needed and much more than 60+20% would say 100% to people whose only roof is above their heads and who have no other solution. We talked about people who have more property they didn't invest in, who didn't pay for insurance and who will turn out that people who on average have much less than they will pay through taxes an increase in their private assets. So please really be specific about these things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1724	Dear Representative Brumnic, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1725	Dear colleague Raspadic, I don't know why you found yourself called, I didn't mean you. I fully agree, and I said this in my debate that a social component should be introduced, that those who cannot need practical assistance 100%, and those who can participate in the restoration of their facilities or structures in those facilities should be partly charged as provided for by law.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1726	The next is the replica of the respected MP, Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1727	Nice to meet you. Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs. When we talk about justice here, it's very important to try to raise awareness of the dimension that we have to go specifically to man. I'll be very plastic for the sake of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. We shouldn't let that happen, for example. Some entrepreneur of ours who has 50 million kunas, drives a car, makes some traffic ticket, and then gets a man of 1,000 kunas fines. And then there comes a man who works at the grocery store for 3,000 kunas who does the same punishment and gets 3,000 kunas of fines. So, definitely everyone needs help, and everyone needs to be in every accident like this was a country to meet, the state should be a mother, not a bad stepmother, and especially not a bad stepmother to the poor.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1728	Dear Representative Brumnic, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1729	I'm sorry, I really didn't understand the replica of what I was replicated to.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1730	Thank you very much. The next debate will be respected representatives of Karolina Vidovic Kristo.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1731	Thank you, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1732	I'd like to ask you nicely to put on a mask. I mean, we all wear masks, not to protect ourselves, but to protect others, and that's what an epidemiologist will tell you, they've given us such recommendations, and so it's been recommended that we all wear masks to protect others, not ourselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1733	Mr. Vice President, thank you, I would like to tell you that, on the recommendation of Mr. Minister Beros, that the scarf towards him is an adequate replacement. We also need to know that we are a legislative body here and that people in Croatia are quite confused, I have not launched this debate or wanted to conduct such discussions, but I am a legalist and the argument is doing it all reminds me very much of something that I am not happy about and I am not inclined to do such things.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1734	No, it's the presidency's decision to wear a mask.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1735	It's a recommendation, but it's not an obligation, it's not a law.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1736	Obviously just for your sake, we'll call the presidency, so it'll be a decision then.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1737	But when it's a decision I'll respect, I'm a legalist. If we pass the law, I will obey the law. I'm not the kind of person who's gonna stand up to that kind of thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1738	When you're the only one who doesn't want to accept it and you don't care about your colleagues and colleagues, but fine.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1739	I don't care, but this theory of protection you know well that every declaration and mask says it doesn't protect against covida-19, so it's all things we know very well.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1740	Well, I also explained as a doctor, they don't protect you, but they protect others from it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1741	If I'm not infected with what to protect. .../Speakers speak at the same time./... They don't agree with you, they're not even. And I repeat, I will respect the decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1742	You can get along or disagree, that's my profession, and I don't know about yours.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1743	I'll respect... other doctors. I'll respect the decision when it's made honestly and I'll respect the law that's been passed and I'll always look after others and protect others and their health, it's never been disputed for me, and I'll always do it. May I?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1744	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1745	But now it's 3 minutes and 10, time is 3 minutes and 18 or 10.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1746	I'm sorry, you've been polymizing with me all along about something that's very obvious.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1747	You interrupted me with these questions and you didn't give me a debate. You've begun to pollute with the mask.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1748	All right, come on, come on, come on, come on. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1749	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. We have before us a law that, if we look at it in terms of efficiency, we can describe in a conveyed sense, that Franjo Tudjman is 1991. was expeditionive as Plenkovic in 2020, the front line would be between Salzburg and Munchen. The earthquake was in March 2020 and all logic required that the second day of March 23rd form a working group composed of representatives of all relevant professions and ministries and work day by day. This law comes too late, but well, we got what we got. The fundamental problem in the Republic of Croatia is not law enforcement, i.e. abuse with a legal basis. The problem with the implementation of this law is the fact that at the head of Zagreb we have a completely devastated city administration, and the corruption of such proportions that it is likely to be explored in scientific terms and survival. Each and the best and strictest law has no purpose unless applied consistently. Here is an example of how laws are abused in Zagreb. Let us take an example of the Public Procurement Act. In the Republic of Croatia he is extremely strict. For comparison, the German version of the law gives much more room for manoeuvre, so that, for example, institutions, cities and municipalities can negotiate with bidders after a public tender to achieve the best possible conditions. In the Republic of Croatia, however, the situation is such that it is obviously all very rigorous, but then among 150 articles in the law one article that provides for so-called. It's an extraordinary situation. Although we know that the extraordinary situations are natural disasters, war conditions etc., in the City of Zagreb these extraordinary situations are constantly being implemented. For example, 2007 90% of the purchase and sale of land was made by replacement, not by selling through a public tender. The subject of one of these replacements was the land next to the Kraš factory in Zagreb's Maxime. It's one of the elite Zagreb sites. It is estimated at EUR 310 per square, and land in Sesvetski Kraljec at EUR 270, with land in Sesvetski Kraljec not even being on the main road but on so-called B location, the real value of land is about EUR 30. In connection with these land swaps, anti-corruption activist Mr Tomislav Jelic filed a criminal report to DORH in 2007. However, our DORH, despite the complete documentation provided, was required on 10.g. to press charges on which the damage to the City of Zagreb was estimated at 161 million kuna. Unfortunately, in those 10 years. The DORH has constructed such an indictment against which Bandic is charged with nothing as if the mayor had no knowledge and as if it had nothing to do with what is happening in Zagreb, the DORH has not charged him in this case. This is just one of the land swaps. What about everyone else? Have they been questioned? Milan Bandić and corruption in Zagreb are not the work of an individual. Bandic began his career as a communist. During the mentioned case, Bandic was a respected member of the SDP, and is now the beloved coalition partner of Plenkovic's HDZ. If the judiciary worked, corruption would be prevented and cases like this would not be possible. Whose money is it that's being estranged from the city or from the state? Whose money is that when something doesn't charge, what city or state are they entitled to? It's the ladies and gentlemen of our money, the money of our nurses, educational workers, farmers. We all pay and that justice that should prevent corruption, they don't do their job. Milan Bandic is a joint venture of SDP and HDZ, and in this case there are abuses and blockades of institutions conducted by the two parties. That's why all of us sitting in the assembly, but all of us throughout the Republic of Croatia have to ask ourselves a question, do we support corruption and disorder that causes poverty and injustice, or are we fighting this evil? Justice and rule of law have no alternative for me. While this structure is in power in Zagreb, and in the Croatian state this government is fully questionable legitimacy every, and even the best law will continue to be played, and will not serve the general good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1750	It seems to me that you have committed a violation of the Rules of Procedure, here you are, a respected representative of Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1751	Honorable MPs and MPs and respected Mrs. Poirot. Kristo. I really, this is the 10th time we've all asked you to put on a mask together. Regardless of your belief or whatever one epidemiologist or another epidemiologist has said, the minimum degree of collegiation is that if we all agree to a common rule and I refer to it as a violation of the Rules of Procedure in the sense that by your conduct you are deviating from some of the general rules that we have now agreed to because of the epidemiological measures. So none of us are comfortable wearing a mask all day. It's hard for us to breathe, it's hard for us to talk, but we all agreed together to protect each other, on that rule of conduct. I really feel hurt when you're hurt because of your personal beliefs or because someone told you this or what you think you're better than the rest of us. And that you can afford it. [[Intruder: Thank you]] It's not right. That's really not right. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1752	Uh, it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but unfortunately, all you said was true and I've asked the respected representative Kristo to wear the mask according to the presidency's recommendation. I don't have the opportunity to force her to do business, but I agree it would be correct to protect other MPs, how we can all do that, none of us are comfortable with this one, but we do it. But I don't have a business opportunity to get her to do it or to convince her. And I guess I don't know, maybe her colleagues can convince her of that. We have a replica of the esteemed member of the Skore.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1753	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President, the distinguished representative Vidović Kristo, when you spoke about transparency is precisely the transparency of one of I would say wound cancer and the biggest generator of corrupt events in the Republic of Croatia and I know that this law is in the first reading and that there are many things that need to be corrected and defined. However, many articles mention the payment of financial assistance for so-called so-called “. ” the eligible costs which should in any case be legally defined in such a way that consumption and such money should be more transparent and should be easier to explain in any case to those who fill the state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1754	Dear representative Vidovic Kristo.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1755	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Thank you and distinguished representative Miroslav Skori. Look, she would paraphrasise the idea of the ideological father, Andrej Plenkovic, his current informal and future formal adviser, Matu Granic. The law will generally be implemented in half of HDZ, half of SDP, and half of Milan Bandic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1756	The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1757	Thank you, Mr. President. How one famous artist in Croatia wrote in one of his songs "Not Life Like in Books" and we could not have predicted everything that happened one Sunday morning in Zagreb and the surrounding area. So those who have experienced it would probably not want to experience it again. Each one of us who experienced it has a memory of where he was that day and it is quite certain and clear that it was a major natural disaster. And I feel that it is necessary to support and pass a law of this title and that everything should be done to make the content of this law so that everyone of us who supports it will be fully aware that he has done a good thing for the citizens, for the state and for the cities and municipalities and the county that are located in the area most affected by the earthquake. Still, it's time to ask yourself a few questions and maybe get answers. First of all, it's a fact and it's that dilemma that we all have more or less, do we need state money to repair private property? And in the context of this dilemma about such disasters, I think it should be done to the extent that the state can do it. Is the best model and ratio chosen, is all the details of this legal solution good about it we've been discussing today all day. Another question I ask myself. Should the citizens of Dalmatia, Slavonia, Međimurje, Istria and other parts of Croatia be involved in repairing the damage on private or city property of the City of Zagreb and its surroundings. But then there's the answer. In this case, as they participate in the financing of ferry transport for islands, as they participate in the incentives for agriculture of citizens of the City of Zagreb or as they participate in the incentives for the development of tourism for the citizens of the City of Zagreb where it goes to other regions, not just the City of Zagreb. The third dilemma I have is, what about those people who, and the earthquake insurance service... were paying for insurance on the market, paying for it on a regular basis? I think they've now turned out to be so they feel a little stupid because they've been paying something for years, and then what they've been paying for is going to restore it to some participation for those who haven't paid. And it needs to be done so that these people don't turn out, that these people don't feel stupid and that in some way they're refunding what they've been doing in a certain period of time, because otherwise there won't be any more earthquake insurance services on the market, because everyone will count on it if it comes, if there's such an earthquake and something happens, then the state will restore it to me which they would then pay for insurance. So it seems to me like the story of legalization. So the ones who built it were something smarter than the ones who followed the rules. It is something that I think should be done in Croatia, however, so those people who follow the rules should not be in a bad position than those who don't follow the rules and so on. Of course there are big dilemmas about the 60-20 ratio. There are great dilemmas, let's say the story of the deadline that 30 days will sign a contract for the establishment of this institution, which seems to me to be an instructive deadline in the law. So, 30 days won't happen unless the contract is signed. Is there any money to restore to that extent? It'll be as long as it is. So we don't know what fall awaits us, how much money there is. But in any case, it should be one priority to the extent to which the government's priority should be, the Croatian policy's priority, that part of what died in this devastating earthquake be restored. Expressing all the dilemmas that have been made here, which are said here to bring the best and the most just solution for those who will be compensated for the damage as well as for those who will pay for that damage to someone else, which is Croatian citizens, i.e. Croatian taxpayers. I hope that the Government of the Republic of Croatia will consider these dilemmas once again when proposing a final bill and that we will vote with equal zeal for the second reading as we will vote for the first reading. There's no heat, but consciousness if we don't do it, we can't discuss the law at all for six months. That's why we'll be in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1758	Thank you very much. We've got a few replicas on your exhibit. He's the first respected member of the Shore.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1759	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President HS. Dear counterpart Bauk, I, as an entrepreneur in Croatia, had repeatedly felt that I was growing those big ears, not only on this occasion, because I spent my whole life trying to pay for this particular insurance, but also on the occasion that I always respected the laws of the Republic of Croatia, I paid taxes on time, and then it would happen that some inexplicable government decisions would forgive these taxes, those who did great damage to the Croatian economy. However, I agree with you and with whoever said that life is not like in books, and that is why we are here today and that is why we are discussing and therefore, I believe, we can come up with quality solutions to the improvement of Croatian citizens, especially those who are most needed. There should be careful and definitely social censorship should be one of the most important criteria when we talk about this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1760	Dear Representative Bauk, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1761	Your Honor, I must admit that from 1 to 59 seconds I agree with what you said, it will not always be such a case, but this is about it. So first, I agree that those who respect laws and live and work by the rules shouldn't feel bad when one other part of people doesn't do it, so in order not to do any more damage, they sometimes have to be seen through their fingers to make them feel bad, that's what I've been in a lot of times. Secondly, as far as social censorship is concerned, I absolutely support this idea because, of course, it doesn't matter if a worker with an average salary from his tax is going to pay someone that he can sell real estate in the centre of Zagreb that was restored by the state, it's also not a big deal. And as for these forgivenesss, it's that sentence when someone owes you 1,000 kuna, that's his problem. And when you owe 10 million, that's your problem, that's the case. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1762	The next replica is the respected MP Vukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1763	So, dear colleague Bauk, I can understand your observation that it's not good to see who's going to pay and from what budget and that we really need to be all solid at this point. However, you mentioned one thing, and this is the citizens of the Republic of Croatia paying incentives to farmers, I understand that it is not a topic, but you mentioned, so I must take advantage of the opportunity and say no, the citizens of the Republic of Croatia do not pay, although we should because since we joined the EU incentives that are paid for agriculture you are exclusively from the EU budget even though Croatia has committed to paying the difference to the 100% envelope. She doesn't do it, it's a big problem and it makes our farmers uncompetitive. I repeat, this is not a topic, but I want to take the opportunity to hear it too. Our farmers lose each year. They're huge. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1764	Thank you. Dear Representative Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1765	Thank you. I understand what you're saying, fellow Vulcan. I mentioned this in the context that this law nevertheless users of these laws are located in a small part of Croatia and then I asked myself a question myself, should people from other parts of Croatia pay it and then I remembered that there are some provisions of the law that also apply to some other parts of Croatia and where the citizens of Zagreb also pay for it. Now they have a problem and the state needs to show some solidarity. As far as your remarks are concerned, even European money is money among other things, and Croatian citizens. So Croatia is also paying in the EU, and I can only correct myself that then incentives are paid by citizens of Austria, Belgium, the Czech Republic, Cyprus, Denmark, France, Finland, now that I don't have all 28 countries, I don't have time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1766	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed Greek representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1767	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Bauk, it seems to me that you mentioned these people who were self-initiated, or did I mishear who were self-initiatively going into the restoration of their buildings, apartments, houses, and what are people doing? Apparently, they had good experience with the state so far, so they realized that it would take six months to pass the law and its publications in the National Journal. And then we're going to get into the fall, winter, and in winter, there's not much big work, skating and construction ventures, and then there's going to be some spring, so about a year, that means another six months. So it's going to take the state a year to get into this big action, and I've actually been hearing very, very little about it today. So even on this project, the state has shown its enormous ineffectiveness.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1768	Thank you. Dear Representative Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1769	Thank you. Dear Greek, I was talking about people who paid for earthquake insurance and whose damage was compensated according to the policy they had and that these people now feel a little stupid because they've been paying for it probably years before, and in the end they'll have the same effect as those who haven't paid at all. That's what I was saying. As for those who started to repair themselves because they had no choice, so we can highlight only the example of the flood in Gunja when she reacted faster than the government in 2014, and yet something was done and helped people. Therefore, we already have experience, we need to apply good experiences, Secretary of State Uhlir was and was then at the Department of Construction, I think, so in that sense he can help us with good experiences and I believe that in the second reading we can get a better law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1770	Thank you very much. The next debate will be respected representatives of Sanja Radolovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1771	Dear Vice President, thank you for your word, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. So here today, she repeatedly dragged the subject of the opposition out of position, whether we should be in solidarity with the citizens of the City of Zagreb. I come from Istria where every person in Istria when we look at the annual level pays nearly 4,000 kuna extra to the state budget, that's about a billion kuna more. Since 2003, we have been able to build 17 hospitals since the start of the pulse hospital, but I still feel absolutely that we must be solid with the citizens of the City of Zagreb, that we should support this law even though it is lacking in many things. The greatest lack of this law is that this law will not define the entire financial structure, it will not define the supervision of the implementation of this law. Although colleagues have argued from the position that this foundation fund will be monitored in the very founding contract, unfortunately we, as representatives of the Croatian Parliament, well know that we cannot directly and directly influence sublegal acts. Therefore, this is one of the biggest shortcomings in the law itself, so there will be no real supervision of what colleagues have already said today, so on non-transparency, who implements, how public procurement will be conducted, how performers will be chosen, how professional supervision of these constructions will be chosen. Moreover, I would like to add the statements of newly elected Minister Tramišak, Minister of Regional Development and EU funds, which in the national journal several days ago claimed that Croatia has made good moves and we have managed to apply in time to the Solidarity Fund, and that we will receive EUR 500 million from this fund, of which EUR 89 million will be only for the reconstruction of the City of Zagreb this year. What I am asking myself, and I believe a good part of my colleagues who, like me, have been working for many years to withdraw and implement funds and projects from the EU funds, I am interested in how and how, with which personnel. I don't believe in that myth, and I don't believe in the rest of my colleagues that this money is simply going to come with a helicopter over the City of Zagreb and that it's going to throw us 89 million euros, so I'm really interested in how and how it's going to be done. Also, more and more vocal rumors from the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund's ranks, as well as within the Ministry of Construction itself, are that the money planned for the energy reconstruction of multiple buildings amounting to nearly 150 million kuna and the money planned for the energy reconstruction of public sector buildings amounting to more than 300 million kuna, an invitation should be called at the conclusion of June 30, this year, and one should be called in October this year. Therefore, there are more and more rumors about how this money is planned to be taken by potential users and invested in the reconstruction of the City of Zagreb. I must say that I do not agree with this because the vast majority of our citizens, therefore through their building managers and they themselves are already at a large and high level of implementation of these projects, so I must say that I will be loud against the fact that the money for the energy reconstruction of the City of Zagreb, that the money for the energy reconstruction of multiple buildings and buildings of the public sector is being passed over in the reconstruction of the City of Zagreb, because as Prime Minister Plenkovic himself said, and the newly elected minister of money is too old, so here is why I do not see any need to take the money for the energy reconstruction of the City of Zagreb.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1772	We also have a replica of the respected representative of Vesna Nadj on your exhibit.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1773	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. You said colleagues Radolovic that we cannot influence the implementing acts. It is true, Article 57 states that the Government will conclude the contracts referred to in Article 37(3) of this Act within 30 days of the entry into force of this Act. What if Mr. Milan Bandic is blackmailed as mayor in his style and no contract is concluded in 30 days, which will happen, nothing will happen.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1774	Dear representative Radolovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1775	... [[Speech is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1776	My colleague Radolovic's microphone.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1777	I did not want to directly call Mr. Mayor that I am not from Zagreb and I wanted to respect it, but I must also say that the newly elected Minister Tramišak, Minister of Regional Development and EU funds, has been very nice to announce that how we withdrew the money for the reconstruction that took place because of the earthquake that we can also very easily withdraw them for the recovery of the floods. To understand something and to distinguish two things, therefore, I consider these floods that happened the other day in Zagreb to be directly responsible Mr. Bandic, because the citizens of the City of Zagreb were in a orderly way paying for the spillwaters within which they were supposed to clean up the bays, and so the field reconnaissances clearly showed that these plums had not been cleaned, so this was some kind of natural disaster that could have been directly affected, and that did not happen. And so, of course, I'll always be against it. That's the kind of money they use for these accidents. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1778	The next debate will be the respected representative of Davor Dretar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1779	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dearly respected colleagues and fellow MPs are here because today we have a reading here and first of all of this bill, which in its name mentions not only the City of Zagreb, which, of course, is the capital city of our country and we relate the most, mentions Zagreb County, but also that of Krapina-Zagorje County. Well, here's what I'm gonna say to you now, a little something, and on their behalf, all of you dear colleagues and colleagues. So the Krapina-Zagorje County, especially that of its sub-area part, has suffered, I apologize, considerable damage and damage during this catastrophic earthquake, are the biggest damage in the municipalities of Gornja Stubica and Stubička Toplice, something unfortunately also in Marija Bistrica i.e. in the municipality of Marija Bistrica, while the villages of Slani Potok and the villages of Donja Podgora and Karivaroš are extremely damaged. Excuse me one more time, the porch seems to be doing its thing. So, according to official data, the damage exceeds the amount of 30 million kuna, but I believe it's only the initial amount. According to some figures in Krapina-Zagorje County, 409 buildings were damaged, and mostly family houses, 53 were declared temporarily unusable, and 28 families had to be evicted from their homes, so they are currently located in bungalows in the Terme Jezerčica area, and I would like to say a few things here on their behalf, although it was nice to listen to today about the fact that we are a social state, that we are sensitive and that we can, we know and we want to help each other, and it has been proven that we Croats are the strongest when it is the most difficult, and therefore you would like to draw attention to the fact that in these villages, sub-slime villages from the Zagorje side of people are living quite difficult, especially since this crisis has been caused by covid or completely disabling the work of their OPGs, then there are still here, and in fact that the collapses are almost all known that this kind of the problem, but that the fact that the fact that the fact that the fact that the problems of the fact is not known that the fact that the problems of the fact is not known that the fact that the fact that the problem of the fact is that the problem of the problem of the problem of the problem of the problem of the whole of the P. Here in Zagreb, we often mention Zagreb and talk about whether public money should be fixed or rescheduled by someone's private property. Look, here in this town, we know for ourselves about its center, many have either got apartments on political lines, bought them at low prices or bought them out, but in Krapina-Zagorje live people who built their houses with their own hands on their land, some have built them for years, some and decades. So I would suggest, since first reading, that we put a single property censorship here because I believe that in Krapina-Zagorje there are people who, as well as 20% of the participation in costs, are absolutely impossible, so let's think about it nicely. In fact, here is the proposal for a law in Art. The 5th century 1 states that the funds from the state budget, the budget of Zagreb, or mentioned counties, are also mentioned from other sources provided according to specific regulations and other forms of funding. Well, he would suggest that we all consider what this could be funding that would allow families of poorer property, both in Zagreb and Zagreb County, and especially in Krapina-Zagorje to have family houses restored and to relive a man's life in a possibly 100% cost or participation of state budgets or county funds. Of course, we ourselves know that corruption is very, very, very much present and that everyone likes to get involved there, so he would suggest that there be an installation in the legislation and the obligation to publish financial plans and, of course, spent funds from the budget, and at the head of an institution that, preferably, could be created, that would monitor the transparency of such spending of taxpayers' money, set up a person or person of opposition because we know that it is of course very nice to take a lot of money from a country that very often gives very little money without taking care of them, there. I hope that we can all do it together, if that's how we're going to derivate the Public Procurement Act, and encourage a new episode of corruption, think about it too. And so for the end I would just say that unfortunately the Krapina-Zagorje County is also a place where there are very many old people, perhaps to consider giving them some advisory function through a body because I suppose the paperwork to call it for such a single project will be very demanding. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1780	Thank you. The next debate will be a respected representative and vice president of this high house, Rajko Ostojić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1781	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Allow me, first of all, only a brief digression to the opening lecture of our prime minister, whom I have set up a replica, but of course, as usual I did not get, not me, but generally from the opposition, not a single answer. So, if you can remember, he was also talking about all the reach of his government and his key strategic partner named Milan Bandic. The key words we've been saying for several years are HDZ and Bandic are in synergy and don't let God intervene again, and you know what the interference from physics, maybe this interference has contributed partly to our earthquake. What is a key feature of the first government, Andrej Plenkovic, are missed occasions, missed opportunities. Okay, the people are aboliro, the people have given them 66 mandates with minimal turnout, but a key opportunity, my colleague Celic will agree with me, I see that the replica is EUR 245 million, which from the European Funds was intended for the Republic of Croatia, among other things to reduce the risk of disasters. According to publicly available data, they used an incomplete 2%, which is my question to the prime minister. How much did you use and do you feel responsible for that? A fellow Troscott spread the story on the same trail, so that's safety, that's the safety of the 21st century Republic. So what are, what disasters are expected in the 21st century? The epidemic and pandemic, earthquakes and slides, floods, sea pollution, water disposal, that is, every normal state, especially Western democracy to which the Republic of Croatia belongs, puts in its programmes, withdraws funds and, of course, prevents development. Therefore, the question was whether someone from the City of Zagreb Milan Bandic or Andrej Plenkovic felt about this flood that occurred, or the consequences of the flood, so combine it, the earthquake, the flood. Croatian Waters, the director of Croatian Waters was on the Parliament list, I think, in Slavonia, is that right, Professor. Vucijilovic? Yes, does he feel responsible for not pulling any, no EUR-o to prevent and improve infrastructure in the City of Zagreb and the Republic of Croatia? There is no vice president of our assembly, but I have just highlighted him, Vice President Ante Sanader, president of the Croatian Fire Department. Position, the Croatian Fire Community could withdraw as well as the HGSS that pulled, the Croatian Mountain Rescue Service, could pull hundreds of thousands and millions of EUR, pulled zero, and then our prime minister corresponds to all of us next, the state exists for a reason. Well, of course it exists for a reason, at least we who created it in 91st and were at war in ZNG or HV know it exists for a reason. But today, 30 years later, the state has to worry about security. This was my question, about the security of urban risks of the 21st century, not some other threats, but the urban risks of the 21st century for which there were funds and nothing was used. I'll repeat the fire again, floods. I will quote the prime minister again: "This was an unprecedented earthquake." It's an exact finding. What happens if God forbids Hvar or Bratch starts to burn? They'll say there was an unprecedented fire. He said there was an unprecedented flood for Zagreb now. But all these respected colleagues and colleagues could be prevented. And so once again really, there's the secretary of state, you'll have support for everyone but start working. That's the key. This is the second chance you've got, you shouldn't go back in time. Whoever knows me knows I'm not going back in time because the past can't change, but we can learn from the past. You had a whole series of occasions. Here comes our vice president, who probably took advantage of one euro change from 245 million euros to the Croatian Fire Department. So, the key is why that money wasn't used. Did this pose a threat to national security in a broader sense of the word? Not from internal and external enemies that we don't return to some dark times. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1782	Thank you very much. We have some replicas. He is the first respected representative of Ivan Celic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1783	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Ostojić, I expected more from you in an individual debate on this law. For you, it is evident that Mr Milan Bandic is a permanent frustration. You are constantly reviewing the coalition relationship between HDZ and Milan Bandic's party and not just you, but other colleagues from the SDP of the City of Zagreb. I strongly advise you not to hide behind candidates from another party. Propose a mayoral candidate in the next SDP election. HDZ is not Milan Bandic. This is your party colleague who the current president of the Republic of Croatia said at a certain point that this is the best SDP can offer the City of Zagreb. So, focus on yourself is my well-intentioned advice and stay away from permanent frustrations.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1784	Dear Representative Ostojić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1785	As far as I've seen from some of your records, you're an expert in other areas, not PTSDs. I'm sorry you're PTSD. I don't get caught, I'm an intern, a gastroenterologist. I know about the brain gut axis axis that carries us, but I don't know how to speak in this House. You have been in coalition with Bandic HDZ for years, you and your mentor Mr. Andrija Mikulić, don't be ashamed of it and Mr. Vice President of the Parliament as he was called, but you have forgotten him, Brkic I think he has a nickname. Remember him? As far as Milan Bandic is concerned, I have pleasure. I beat him now in II. the electoral unit. I got seven times his preference vote, and that's it. We'll have a candidate, the SDPs will have a candidate, but it won't go down as Prgomet and all those before you, him who had 2 to 3% of the votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1786	Thank you very much. We have the next replica of the esteemed Representative Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1787	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, dear colleague. I didn't understand where you got the information that the Croatian Fire Department didn't withdraw any funds from the European Union? ... So we pulled out, here I'll just tell you what we pulled. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So 30 million kunas we pulled to get 3,000 radio devices, 210 million euros we pulled 95 large fire trucks, and here's 7 million euros now cross-border cooperation we pulled into a fire centre, plus a social fund where we pulled 100 million.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1788	Dear Vice President Rajko Ostojić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1789	I'm a colleague of Sanader's, uh... You're right. [[You don't understand.]] You're probably right, but I was talking about 245 million euros as a fund to reduce the risk of disasters I'm talking about. Not about these other cohesion funds. Therefore, the Croatian Mountain Rescue Service has withdrawn, and according to publicly available data no one else has. For example, Minister Horvat could have pulled you know what my colleague Sanader was for? For industrial accidents. It's an urban risk. I'm going to repeat water-reliance, sea pollution, sustainable development, environmental protection and similar things we haven't withdrawn enough and the consequences are now seen. But I'll say it again, it's a missed occasion. That's what the European Commission has been talking about, and I hope very warmly, that you will now speed up that colleague Tramišak who started well, here to commend you, will continue at least on the trail of her interviews.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1790	The next debate will be a respected representative of Mira Bulja.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1791	Thank you very much. Our colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens of the Croatian people, are discussing a lex specialist on the Law on the Reconstruction of Zagreb that needs to be discussed. The Croatian people have always been solid, human in numerous disasters and threats, and I would commend from this place first and foremost those who make the most of our security, our national security and also the security of threats to the Croatian soldier, the Croatian military who proved itself at that time timely and rapid actions as well as the time of the Homeland War and the fact that the Croatian soldier and this time was the one who showed speed and strength with Croatian firefighters, of course, police officers, medical staff, everything that was civil protection and that is how we have to function and how we have to look. So the Croatian state either of the SDPs, whether the HDZ government had no national security strategy for 20 years, we didn't have a reservation so we could activate it as far as the Croatian military is concerned, we didn't have our chamber seats or we knew how to react. However, these threats speak of the need to safeguard national security. Of course, when we talk about the City of Zagreb, when I come to Zagreb from my Dalmatian fire, then this light shines on me, but we need to be solid. But we need to tell the City of Zagreb I remember donating everything and everything to everyone, to pick up a political point, because the state was centralized and what all the money remained in Zagreb, by the institutions of the government i.e. The government's ministries so that the rural areas of two-thirds of Croatia are empty. Let me give you an example. It's been raining recently in my village. A man has a large family, doesn't work husband or husband, and of course he can't solve that problem because his house is threatened because it's private land, poverty. When we pass the law then we need to look at the wider picture, we know what happened in Zagreb to try to be solid, but we also have to be solid from Slavonia to Dubrovnik, from Prevlaka to Vukovar. For what? Because of what certain threats happen in Dalmatia like the fire was, as an elemental accident much harder to solve things in these areas, I wish it were different. We have such problems, colleagues before me mentioned ecological disasters, we see that in Croatia during this post-stormation we have to keep health, here through my Sinj it is open to the feces of the city, we have even money intended, but Croatian water doesn't care about the canals, is that the public procurement essentially showed that it is an underrated cost to perform these works, but in the middle of the city where the kindergarten, where the school, where the hotel is in the middle of the town of Sinja, is open sewers and enters into Cetina. Where are the Croatian waters? So we wonder what these institutions are doing where citizens pay billions like Croatian waters. Let them say how many channels they've cleaned. In my village in the Cetina region very little clean, and citizens are sent bills neatly, if they don't pay for it. I haven't seen it, though you charge it to some kind of concessionaire or anyone who doesn't actually, but very little is done, we're in the middle of an appointment. We have to work exclusively so that those who citizens pay them either through bills, or through taxes to do their job. And that's why we didn't have a National Security Strategy, 20 years ago, 2.5 years ago, we came up with a strategy. We joined NATO, we joined the EU, we had an old National Security Strategy. So we from kindergarten have to teach children how to defend ourselves against certain threats, and let certain threats occur to us that forced bodies forcefully say that a parliamentary representative can vote here if he is in self-insulation, and a farmer who fertilizes his field has no one around him, he has a fine of 8,000 kuna, no matter what he has to feed on. Therefore, there were threats, there will be threats, I have to be solid and human, but don't forget these two-thirds of Croatia, starting with my Dalmatian burn, like, mountain cotter, Slavonia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1792	We have several replicas, the first respected Vice President of the Assembly of Ostojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1793	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So you forgot to tell your colleague Bulj that the deputy director of Croatian Waters from one party was the bearer of your 10th election unit from the HNS as far as I know, right, that the deputy director of Croatian Waters was the bearer of the HNS list in the 10th constituency now. That's what you're worried The director of Croatian Waters is in Slavonia, and the one from HNS is down, and the third is Bandic, as Ćoric says. And now Bandic says today he will sue those same Croatian waters for stealing 450 million kunas from him. A coalition fell apart like a crab's child, forgetting about mentors and things like that. Comrade Bull, plant disease, animal disease, African as this plague is called, these are all threats of the 21st century is not just a question of the military. We live in a time of globalisation where simply thanks to infrastructure there are completely other threats, and this is today a covid. So we bought time and respirators and ECMO devices because there were smart people who wrote in my strategy and they said it would come to us eventually.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1794	Thank you. Dear Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1795	So I think that the centre of the problem is that those who should be doing their job we parliamentary representatives are a sequence of logic and exposed, but the directors of Croatian Water, agencies, these agencies, those agencies, they don't know how many agencies I think 20 billion kunas are in need of money, we don't know how much space they use now to evict these people, we could temporarily solve all these people who have now lost a roof over their heads and in Zagreb and elsewhere. But the fact that we have to focus on means that we focus, to move within the administration of the key people of that party card, is it visible that this headquarters is now politicized and that's what hurts our people most and that's why we have so many young Croats who could work in the Republic of Croatia today, that's the key to the problem. You may object, but that's true.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1796	Thank you very much. The next is the replica of the respected representative Ivan Celic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1797	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Bull. You were in the last term of office, in some ways, a public tribunal, always calling for justice, and that's good. So here we talk about solidarity, we can only call it solidarity or we can call it Christian solidarity. So if we take the variable of righteousness without or with love for man, then it's two different righteousnesss. So here is the solidarity that should be in place today and which is contained in most discussions. It actually makes one connection and the mutual unity of people who are unhappy and society as such. Well, here it is, I commend your debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1798	Dear Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1799	There has been a problem in Croatia because solidarity has been lost and children have been taught, if someone is in trouble, for example If one factory fails, there was not even union solidarity, while the Dalmatinka factory in Sinj collapsed, while the workers were strikers, others were watching and keeping their jobs on the side. So we lost that basic human solidarity that the Croatian people showed the threat after all. That's what we have to mention. The Croatian people, when the greatest threats, when it was the Homeland War, were all together, regardless of whether they were Christians, small, large, were agnostics, atheists.../incomprehensible/... it was irrelevant, the least important was that I do not know which faith, I think it is important that this solidarity be well targeted, and that the state institutions do their jobs and that the young ones learn, essentially implement the National Security Strategy, defend against any threat. It's so simple, I as a soldier, a professional soldier know what playfulness means, I know what a team means, and I know what it means. the way in which certain institutions have led to this. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1800	The next replica is the respected MP Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1801	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Col. Bulj, the replica, you forgot that in this difficult accident that hit the city of Zagreb, the boys of Bad Blue Boys, although I belong to another fan group, I was born a Rijekan, we must not forget their contribution and since you mentioned the feces, that 'prost, they sent me here primarily citizens of Istria and Kvarner, a great deal of suffering to Rash where in the literal sense, Anka is called Mrs., I want you to remember her, I'm going to very much talk about this topic, 30 m from the house where she lives with her family in the open channel, it's a story to colleagues of IDS, but I'm going to ask them openly, many questions I'm going to ask them the flow of feces, the funds from the EU fund and a number of other things, but it'll all be questioned here in this place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1802	Dear Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1803	Well, you remembered a good colleague of mine and the fan groups and the BBB and the Torcida and mine, the rest of them and the Armada, of course, and if the triba go localally to my blue Maligans, they were all signs together and complex in threats. Here, the BBB showed up here in Zagreb, at Peter's hospital, in all the problems that were happening, and that should be commended. I'm sorry that those in the solemn lodges, who act as embellished under the lights of the reflectors as they toast themselves to champagne, which is why they don't show up in those moments because they can simply and easily be directed to national security, to the safety of our citizens because we need to give these people to the importance, not to underestimate them from the solemn lodges where they toast themselves to the barn, where the fish is being shot down and I don't know what they toast themselves with the best champagne and the best wine. I think cheerleading groups are one fortune that can be sociologically directed there... for the safety of our citizens. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1804	The next debate will be the respected representative of Michel Jaksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1805	Good afternoon, nice greeting to all and above all, I agree with my colleague Bulja that unfortunately and great disasters, but also great victories united this country and all the citizens of this country, and therefore I must say that I am a little sorry that this law came four months after the earthquake itself. Maybe we could have done some things before, regardless of the election preparations, and maybe we could wait a little while to clear up the coalition relations with colleagues Bandic who apparently exist. No matter how we talk or how we discuss it or where we paint. That too much time has been lost talking and a lot of debate from the government's representatives who were here today. Today we do not have clear hodograms, we do not have a clear structure and I am not sure that even after we pass the law we will be able to tell people in Krapina-Zagorje and Zagreb County and the City of Zagreb, then and then you will be able to move back into your apartments. What I would certainly like to say in particular is that although there is no clear institutional support, I am talking about it as mayor and I can say that the civil protection system in the Republic of Croatia is not adequately laid down. Once again, we must thank our firefighters and police and military and healthcare professionals who have indeed done a great, huge job in this crisis. What pleases me from the discussion of Prime Minister Plenkovic is the announcement that we will give a lot of effort to find a consensus about this law and I think it is a really good way to do it because this law shows our solidarity, we show how ready we are really ready to forget about the political colors together and bring the law that brought us to a natural disaster, show people that all the parliamentary parties, all parliamentary representatives, and by ruling and opposition, are willing to blow in the same horn and protect the citizens who found themselves on the street, who have found themselves in exile, the vast majority, the greatest majority, not by their own fault. What I would like to appeal through a further discussion of this law that we have said we support at first reading is to see how to come to a transparent model and public procurement and the choice of those who will work on the project itself because it must not happen to us that we have another debate in a year, two, three days as one's godfathers, builders, build and how the other tails for something that must be shown as a hand to help our fellow citizens and fellow citizens. Also, of course, several times the social censorship is mentioned, I think we should also have clear criteria to help people because it would not really be fair for some grandmother in Krapina-Zagorje County to be on the street, while we are going to quickly build back the apartments of banks and large institutions in the city center of Zagreb. There must be a clear social component of how and at what pace and order the homes of those who have found themselves in this merciless situation will be restored. And what I would like to mention lastly and say is that, this is an opportunity that may sometimes be an indicator of the message that nature sends us and I think it has enough brains in Croatia and at the architectural colleges, colleges, and at building schools, of course, and people who are very successful in their careers in the private sector. We should accept this situation as something that enables us to raise and create the city of Zagreb as a European metropolis for the 21st century. There can be new procedures in space, and this flood shows that procedures are also needed in the municipal infrastructure, but as the crisis in the 19th century has changed the dramatic Paris, as in the 19th century, Zagreb is changing, that perhaps this situation should be seen as a great opportunity for change in life, functioning and in the very lifestyle of life in the City of Zagreb, which is the center and metropolis of the Republic of Croatia. Personally, I do not know enough about the state of finance of the City of Zagreb, what I heard today did not make me very happy, I hope that the structural problems that possibly exist in the functioning of the City of Zagreb will not cause us to become in a situation without clear regulations how and in what way will the whole of Croatia help to get out of the financial clay and that is the same thing that should be solved in the coming time and in this home, of course in the City of Zagreb Assembly, regardless of which coalition and in which form. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1806	Thank you, and for your exposure, we have replicas. The first will be the respected representatives of Dalia Oreskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1807	Thank you. Finally, we heard in one of the presentations of one key information, one key question, that we do not know what the financial situation in the City of Zagreb is. We all assume that Zagreb is in a financial spot. But without a problem, we proposed a co-financing ratio by the City of Zagreb. Also, during the day I listened to several replicas on individual exposures almost ping pong on one side and on the other side of the assembly whose problem is Milan Bandic and who is all burdened with his corruption affairs. Well dear colleagues and colleagues with corruption affairs Milan Bandić is burdened by all of us, both citizens of the City of Zagreb and all of Croatia. And it should not be forgotten that the restoration will take place on his home turf. So if we don't clear up this problem first, we won't restore a single brick but we'll have one of those same stumbling blocks again. Therefore, parallel and perhaps even before entering into the implementation of this law We need to figure out what's going on. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] which led to the problem. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1808	The answer of the respected representative, Jaksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1809	The laws on fiscal responsibility in the Republic of Croatia in particular concerning units of local and regional self-government are more than clear only the question of whether there will be political will and strength to deal with them seriously. So someone should draw the line, do a review of the finance and business of the City of Zagreb, measure the state of responsibility, see what is the original revenue of the budget and after that we will all have a clear picture. It is not a tabula race that is something that already exists in the laws as we talk about units of local self-government very easily we can see how many municipalities, cities and counties we need because all those who pass 20% pay with original income shouldn't even be municipalities, city or county, and we have a lot of such examples. The only question is whether or not we're gonna follow the laws we already have today.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1810	Dear Vice President Rajko Ostojić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1811	I apologize, so.../incomprehensible/... because I was absent, but you, colleagues, have made it very clear that you have highlighted the role of civil protection. I think, finally, based on this Covid infection, we realized in principle how much this civil protection is worth. I will not return at that time "nni" there is no Paul Kalinic to tell us about the action "nothing should surprise us" but this is the basis on which the basis of the struggle is based, against the threat of the 21st century. A colleague, Jakšić, is not the point of all smoking in the same horn, the purpose is to have a good conductor, to each play his instrument, to each play his instrument to be a nice music and to help the citizens of Zagreb. If we all smoke in the same horn there's a vice president of the assembly, he knows best, none of it, there won't be music, there won't be anything, or as the old folk says if we all think the same way then believe colleague Jaksic doesn't absolutely think, and we're here to think, to oppose arguments and to implement as much better law as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1812	Dear Representative Jaksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1813	Okay, Vice President Skoro and I will stick to the tambourine because of the continent, and we will leave you with some other instruments in view of your background, but what we talk a lot about civil protection and what I have to stress from the personal experience of leading the city is definitely not done enough and that we haven't institutionally set that story up. The Civil Protection System works in a way that 112 reassemblies gave to the mayor, gave to the mayor, gave to the management of a public fire department, and you have a big problem here and here. I really must say because of the crown of the crisis, especially when it was a lockdown when it took care of how many young people gathered in the open spaces that we didn't have volunteer firefighters in the city's fire department, if we hadn't had a public fire unit we wouldn't have even managed to control all the measures we've been asked to do. Then you ask yourself a question, and where is the civil protection system and what's that civil protection that's supposed to be the hat of everything today in the Republic of Croatia?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1814	The next debate will be respected representatives Ivana Posavec Krivec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1815	Thank you, dear Vice President. The colleagues and colleagues of this debate today certainly have a great interest in the public, especially the great interest of all those citizens and citizens of Krapinso-Zagorska, Zagreb County and the City of Zagreb who suffered from a home during the devastating earthquake on 22 March this year. From then to the realization of this law, it will be at least 5 months, and citizens have great expectations of all of us. From the parliament and from the government because they rightly expect the state to help them resolve life and existential issues that did not result from their guilt after the earthquake. I welcome the law, I will support it, but I hope that by the second reading, the Proposer or the Proposer will appreciate those constructive remarks that will contribute to the necessary recovery after the earthquake being an opportunity to jump, to step forward in improving the quality of life of citizens and citizens primarily in Zagreb, and then in Krapina-Zagorje and Zagreb County. This law should become an opportunity for a major restoration of the cultural historical core of the City of Zagreb and their urban improvement, new procedures in space and interpretation between buildings. At the same time, I do not think that this reconstruction should be a hostage of any restrictions, but that it must be conducted on the basis of a professional basis and fully transparent in cooperation with interested stakeholders. I will immediately say that so far many top experts, urbanists and architects have offered through public debate a number of solutions that are applicable in the reconstruction of the City of Zagreb, which significantly improve the visual and functional identity of the city. Let us listen to them when they point to a series of untapped potentials of large indoors, but also abandoned courtyard spaces among housing in the lower city that could become a space of interpolation of semi-inhabited garages where there would be no oasis for children and young ones, for example. This would also partially address the issue of peace traffic in the City of Zagreb, which is similar to larger European cities every day, increasingly complex. At this sensitive moment, urbanists recognize this new opportunity for the planned and infrastructure development of Zagreb, because there are large enough unused building spaces in the city centre where a new modern city in the 21st century could be created parallelly. Furthermore, there are a lot of facilities in the city where envelopes or facades or roofs are refurbished by other programmes, most often energy renovations, or are already authorised to co-finance cultural property owners for the use of monumental rent funds and the implementation of protective works and measures. I think it would be good if I didn't say rationally predict the use of operational infrastructure and the unification of works that are not just about constructive reconstruction of objects, as this law provides. The responsibility for the elemental accident cannot be preceded by anyone, we must conclude that the earthquake, its occurrence, its strength and its destruction cannot be predicted and thus, in a preliminary manner, prevent victims and damage. It's unfortunate that all together the earthquake found us literally asleep, on a Sunday morning when business, traffic and every other activity in the city center was minimal, and I believe that's the main reason why we don't record bigger victims. But the victim is huge, an earthquake has lost one young life, and we must never forget that. More than 42,000 applications and requests for inspection of buildings and apartments in which damages exist were received after the March 22nd earthquake. An estimated 24 000 buildings are being worked. Almost all buildings in the centre of Zagreb, especially in the area of the upper and lower towns, but many in the wider urban area are built structures from the 18th, 19th or 20th centuries. Of the more than 13 300 buildings in the protected historical city of Zagreb, half of them are registered in the register of cultural goods of the Republic of Croatia. As the damages have been reported to more than 24 000 buildings, experts face an extremely long-term period of determining their resilience, designing reconstruction and strengthening. I hope that soon we will have the final proposal of this law on the second reading and that for the benefit of the reconstruction of the City of Zagreb, Zagreb County and the Krapina-Zagorje County we will make this law much better.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1816	Thank you very much. The next debate will be the respected MPs of Ruzica Vukovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1817	Thank you, well-respected Vice President HS, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. First of all, as Slavonka, as a person who is not a permanent resident of the City of Zagreb, I want to express my compassion to everyone who has been threatened for several months by the existence, due to the earthquake, due to the flood, due to a number of other events that disturb a man's peaceful life like fire, air pollution and so forth. Respecting the fact as well as the need for the new Law on Reconstruction to be adopted in haste and direction in the organisation of fair and socially balanced co-financing, I am convinced that it was nevertheless necessary to approach the creation of a previous assessment of the effects of the law, and this is because the impact of the law on labour and the labour market is evident, an impact on the protection of the environment, and on the protection of human rights. Making the previous assessment would give us a far-reaching review of the effects and effects that this law will cause. I believe that by making the previous assessment, there would be far less repulsed proposals of the profession within the e-consultation process. Of the 389 comments mostly made by professional associations and institutions such as the Association of Architects, Croatian Chamber of Architects, Associations of Croatian Architects, Architectural Faculty, Croatian Engineering Union, Association of Construction Engineers, etc., etc. Only 20% of these comments were appreciated while a large number of comments were rejected or rejected through the remark "received to know". Otherwise, this remark, I personally consider, does not mean anything because such remarks should make it clear whether the proposal will be respected or not, with a reason why it has been decided as decided. How will we develop social dialogue between state institutions and profession in the future if the practice of closing ministries towards profession continues? I believe that the profession after they really tried, took the time, gave their judgment, their proposal, unfortunately feels humiliated. To note how there were quality proposals, but still refused, bound for example by heat cranes as more modern, ecological, ecologically more acceptable and ultimately cheaper model of home heating. The installation of such solutions reduces the share of fossil fuels, increases the share of renewable energy sources, increases energy efficiency. It is necessary to insist on a complete recovery, not just in construction, and the law should stimulate citizens to complete reconstruction, hence both construction and fire and energy and others. Otherwise, the situation on buildings will happen, the buildings will be constructed, but they will not be usable because there is no funds for other works. That way, we'll lose the residents, and the owners won't decide to rebuild. Within the provisions of the law, there is also a lack of regulation on the transportation of construction waste, and I hope that this will also be accounted for, and that, in fact, construction waste is a new raw material and I believe that it will not happen to end up in the world's forests. For the end of my presentation, I just want to remind all those who are involved in making legal solutions like this proposed Law on Reconstruction that they are still a fresh bitter experience experienced by Posavina, where floods have taken away many families' homes. Then a bill was built in this House, a legal proposal that many had just left without a roof over their heads. I was personally written by individuals who were just because they were on temporary work in Zagreb where they clearly reported their stay without a family house, for example in Gunja because the law said they did not have the right to rebuild. Despite the well-intentioned intention of the Proposer of the Law on the Reconstruction of earthquake-damaged buildings, I hope that this law will not prove to be flawed and will not be unfair to citizens as many laws have been so far. Finally, I will only read the comment of a lady who is the capital of the City of Zagreb who says she is afraid that the proposed law will still be left behind, there will be no co-ownership resolution, there will be no reserve payment, there will be no settlement of all those disputes that are actually long-term and it is about property relations and the like. She's actually worried that this all comes down to one ceasefire, and when it all goes away together, Zagreb will live again, as it has been, by the same age as I do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1818	Thank you. We have one replica of Mr. Representative and Vice President Skora.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1819	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Vukovac, I will use my right to speak as a parliamentary representative in order to perhaps warn distinguished colleagues especially those who will decide on the adoption of this law that these laws must be, I will use an analysis of the user friendly so that they should be in some way accessible to those who will be users of this law. I used certain laws and legal solutions as an entrepreneur myself, and it was known that college should actually be completed so that a man could fulfill such a thing. I once again found here that during the entire process, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Agency for Reconstruction, the Ministry of At least three, the City of Zagreb, Zagreb County, Krapina-Zagorska County, the Expert Council for Reconstruction, the Institute for Spatial Planning, the designers, inspection supervision and that we need laws of course on the renewal of the damage list, the main project, the professional supervision, the project of renovation, the entire renovation program, the technical regulation of so much paper where we do not know how many of our users will succeed after such a complicated law. It needs to be simplified.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1820	Thank you. Dear Representative Vukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1821	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, colleague Miroslav. So, yes, our laws really seem pretty complicated for ordinary mortals to call that our people, and that's why I'm talking about these procedural failures, because I hope in the future we'll actually change our approach to this little man, that we'll include him in the process of making legal proposals, and let's just say here, even with this law, it's not the case. It'll be kind of my mantra. I want to involve end-users, i.e. to address all the laws passed by this High House, in the very process of making legal proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1822	Thank you very much. The next debate will be respected representatives of Vesna Nadj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1823	Dear Mr Vice-President, colleagues and colleagues of parliamentary representatives and MPs, if the applicant's intensities to make the law clear, transparent and enforceable, then all possible expertise that has been persistently offered and to include representatives of all interested stakeholders in order to achieve that goal. This is how we have 389 complaints from the professional public and interested citizens. We have a funny situation that the objection was given by the Institute for Spatial Planning of the City of Zagreb, and the applicant states that knowledge is accepted and is partly accepted. Through this it is evident that this bill has not been worked in the co-operation of the state and the City of Zagreb, but it has been withdrawn, pull out, who will be a bigger player in the reconstruction process. Even in the draft bill discussed at the 1st session of the Government, two working group meetings were held on page 9 — on 31 March and 7 April. The task force included representatives of the City of Zagreb. They really killed themselves from work at those two sessions. Therefore, the proposal for a law seems to be so inconclusive that everything will be settled by the implementing rules. And what happens if these implementing rules are not adopted within the proposed deadlines or if no fund-building contract is concluded? The other law does not provide for a deadline for setting up a fund. Nothing's going to happen because there are no violations in the other law. It would be rational for the law to prescribe which documents the owners or co-owners of the building have to apply for, with a view to preparing them for the renewal application as soon as the law enters into force and the Government, within 30 days of the date of entry into force of the law, adopt a programme of measures. According to Article 36. Instead of building a replacement family home, the owner of a ruined family house may choose to pay the money for the eligible costs and the amount of financial assistance shall be determined by the Rehabilitation Fund in accordance with the programme of measures. As it is apparent that this is an administrative act, the legal remedy against that decision should be prescribed. It's not like you're offering money to the citizens on the system to take it or leave it and you don't have the right to appeal? Therefore, since the Fund is a legal person with public authority, it is necessary to establish it by law. If the reconstruction of buildings and payment of financial assistance is carried out by the Ministry's decision, why not be a little more rational within the competent ministry, we have enough professional people to do the job, and besides, it prevents us from redistributing civil servants from other public authorities and recruiting other experts. Why do we have to act like drunk billionaires in a situation where the state budget and the budget of the City of Zagreb are at a great loss? The law does not contain any social criteria. Are we going to put into the same basket of tycoons and socially endangered citizens who, as property owners or co-owners, have to co-finance 20% of the renovations? It must not happen that socially endangered citizens bear the burden of this natural disaster, for which both the city and the state are fat, which encouraged the restoration of only facades and roofs for the sake of energy recovery, and they knew that Zagreb was within the seismic's most active zone of the inner part of Croatia. Why could Dubrovnik and Stone be restored after the earthquake by the state's full resources and Zagreb cannot? I highly doubt that all tycoons live in the lower city, Maksimir, Upper Dubrava or Markushevec. In addition, this break-in of the clouds that hit Zagreb these days showed all the deforestation systems, especially in the lower city and reconstruction, should not only go to the building but also to the detachment system so that there is no outside fuj, and inside of Fuj as it often happens in the City of Zagreb. And in the end, it takes control of the cost of the money on zero potential to keep the fingers out of the jam. Digitalisation allows us in real time to monitor the spending of all funds in the reconstruction, so regulate such a system of control for transparency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1824	Thank you. Next individual debate, distinguished representative Zeljko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1825	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues. I will continue in the tone that I started at last session, which is a constructive proposal to the promoter. If anyone listens to me well, if they don't let them go their own way. Today, there has been a lot of talk about the social state, social approach, solidarity and justice, and I will try to make a few suggestions. I'd like to draw attention to a few facts that point to the eye, and I don't think it's possible to cross over them. Without amending the articles of the laws which regulate or are left out, the law should not be given to another reading. Since those who had not restored their homes and had no place to live, they certainly could not have replaced their atmospheric boilers with condensation, so I believe that they would have been in Article 1. in Article 5(2), financial assistance should also be added for the replacement of old atmospheric boilers with a new condensation if that right has not been achieved from other sources, and this should be applied accordingly in Article 5(2). 34. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid The percentage share of funding between the Republic of Croatia and the City of Zagreb and the authorities... is flat-rate and unfair in relation to the owners of buildings of a weaker economic power, without other immovable or mobile property or such an easy-to-find property without permanent sources of income with low wages or pensions. The percentage of the owner’s participation should depend on the owner’s economic strength, which can be very easily determined from the official records of the Tax Administration or the Register of Real Estates, Movements and Rights. The rich should certainly participate with more than 20% while the poorest should be freed from participation in funding, if we are talking about the social state. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 7. with previous in relation, there is also an unjustifiedly prescribed advance payment of the equity share in the financing of 20% before the start of the workmaking process. I suppose a part of the funds should be paid off in advance, and final payment should follow after the completion of the works or at least towards construction positions. I don't know why it's forgotten about Zagoreca who don't have a roof over their heads right now, so I suggest you do it. The 50th amendment is also amended to add that the building for temporary accommodation of owners or protected tenants who have the right to replacement accommodation when in the event of renovation of their facility is not suitable for housing should be provided and provided in the area of Krapina-Zagorje County, or affected by the nearest cities in Zagreb County, and not only in the City of Zagreb. I won't talk about building security or the standards that need to be respected because there's been a lot of talk. I will also not talk about transparency either, but I would draw attention to one more thing, which is that the owners of objects that will renew their facilities should be freed from the budget because it simply doesn't make sense that money is given from the budget for the construction of these objects, and then these same citizens return that money as the impositions and fees again to the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1826	Thank you. Next individual debate, distinguished representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1827	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues. During today's debate, and also yesterday's debate on the Committee on Construction on the Mother's Working Body, I have not heard that there have been any objections or criticism at the expense of this law, as much as I have expected from the time since the earthquake in Zagreb, Krapina-Zagorska and Zagreb County occurred, which says that during this period of time and debate, which was conducted with an interested public interest, in a certain way, the law is well-complicated and gives answers to very demanding questions that arise when the earthquake hit the City of Zagreb and that almost 25,000 buildings were damaged in the area where it occurred. What this law gives to read is that it relies on three basic settings. The first is that the approach to rebuilding buildings affected by the earthquake is based on the reconstruction of the structure or the complete restoration of the building, by building a new building. The second important element of this law is the programme of measures adopted by the Government and will prescribe both measures and deadlines and a whole model of self-renovation of damaged buildings. And the third important element of this law is the establishment of a reconstruction fund that will establish a clear Republic of Croatia and two counties along with the City of Zagreb. Therefore, it is read that the law has designed a procedure, a way of financing, managing and implementing the whole restoration of these objects that are damaged by the earthquake. What I would add in my debate, namely, the Construction Act provides for six basic requirements for construction. The first and most important, mechanical resistance and stability of the building and this law solves it. The 6th basic requirement under the Construction Act refers to energy protection, concerns energy protection, which is largely determined by the arrangement of the facade. Since the construction procedure that will restore the building in order to strengthen its mechanical resilience and stability in much part will affect the very facade of the building, I believe that it would be good, if it is possible to clearly mean again and significant new financial means, but as we go on track, that this new building, refurbished, really be the face of this city, that at some point only the programme of measures would be well designed to develop a special element, a special model, a special way of entering into the energy reconstruction of buildings that will be constructed under this law. I know that means big money, extra money, but given that there is already a programme at European funds level, it would be good if when we enter the building's construction reconstruction we meet the basic condition of the building, a fundamental requirement for building stability to enter into this part of its energy protection. That's one thing. The second thing that was mentioned on the board yesterday, and today in the debate itself, refers to this approach that should value the social dimension of building owners. There will be a lot of problems in its realization, the fact that numerous buildings are not established, the fact that many of the facilities have unresolved property relations, the fact that there are numerous relationships between owners, tenants, users, etc. On the one hand, and on the other hand, the fact that individual owners, whether they are retired, elderly persons, are hardly able to respond in this way, should be able to come up with clear credit lines that would identify the very citizens who are most vulnerable in this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1828	Time. Here are several replicas, the first respected representative of Dalia Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1829	Thank you. Dear Representative Bačić. Its three main elements that you have highlighted as the most important features of this law are three elements that I have highlighted and identified as the greatest sources of corruption risks arising from the proposed law, and I hope that until the second reading and irregularities and the dangers will be removed. First of all, it was talked about the fund as an implementing body, I must say that at this moment its powers and tasks, the way people who will act are not known, which speaks of the earlier being said that there will be people there on the basis of some syncure, not on the basis of their professional qualifications and those tasks that this fund should carry out. Another major problem, perhaps most importantly, is that you have well noticed that the reconstruction will be carried out according to the programme and the measures that the Government will define, which we know nothing about at the moment, are completely unknown to us. Knowing the previous methods of work and intentions and intentions, and even more results, we are witnessing that the biggest problem can arise. And the third thing when we talk about funding, the non-transparentity that has been talked about will lead to the refinance of the wealthy... /The speech room is off./...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1830	Time. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1831	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues. No law can address the issue covered by the law and therefore there are government regulations, there are sublegal acts which are in the power of ministers. And when you talk about these two basic documents and when we talk about the programme of measures taken by the Government on a proposal from the Ministry with prior consent and the creation of units of the regional self-government or the City of Zagreb and the two counties, it should solve what is crucial when it comes to the implementation of this law. It is a fundamental document that will practically represent the realisation of this law. And the second thing, as far as the reconstruction fund is concerned, it's being arranged, its structure, the way it works, the regulation of how and how the fund will act, is governed by a contract that will be signed by the founders, and it is known who is the founder of this law. So, I don't see any problems in its functioning here, and any law can be played, or any document, any... I apologize.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1832	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Nikola Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1833	Dear colleague Bacic. What is happening in the City of Zagreb is the consequence of your policy, the coalition you have with Mr. Bandic for many years, but what is embarrassing is the conduct of the Croatian police towards Mr. Blagus, who together with the group of citizens intervened, opened the Constitution for the water to go to Sava, saved Zagreb because neither Croatian waters nor the competent services of the City of Zagreb still cannot agree who is responsible for doing anything and when the citizens took matters into their own hands when they did what the institutions needed to do as the Croatian police behave. Why didn't you react to that? What does the secretary of police and the vice president of the government do? One shameful behavior. The citizens are asking me to react, and this is a real shame. Your iniquities have led to this.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1834	Time. The answer to the esteemed representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1835	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I don't know what you're replicating or what you're talking about. I'm talking about a law on rebuilding buildings damaged by an earthquake, which you're talking about, you know best, and otherwise I guess you also know that the police in this country should be independent, that if someone doesn't need to depend on us 151 MPs in HS, so it would be a good idea if that remark, that question, that's where your public interest was referred to where it should be directed. As representatives of the largest legislative body in the Republic of Croatia, it is up to us to ensure that the Croatian police can act, that all material conditions are secured for them, and we as politicians should aim to influence the Croatian police.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1836	Thank you. It's a violation of the Rules of Procedure of Nicola Grmo.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1837	Injury. 238, I was talking about the topic, the topic is the City of Zagreb and the reconstruction of the City of Zagreb and the operation in the City of Zagreb, and unfortunately the Croatian police are not independent, Mr. Bačić knows how many people he has employed in the Croatian police, as he has influenced and how it affects the Croatian police. Here in my town, for example.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1838	It's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Warning warning. The next replica is the esteemed representative Nino Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1839	Honorable Vice President, Your Honor. Mr. Bacic, you were talking about the relationship between the co-owners at one point. It should be noted that a very problematic co-owner in buildings affected by the earthquake in Zagreb is also a state. I'm going to set a very specific example that the tenants of that building have set for me. The old building in the centre of Zagreb, therefore, is part of the state 50%, and the rest is private owners. Now, in the earthquake there was once a state-owned bakery and a huge chimney that was supposed to be taken care of by the state, which collapsed and severely damaged the roof. All reserve funds were made by tenants to clean up the roof and put in some kind of nylon, in the 5th month, no one contacted them for reconstruction by the state as co-owner, no 51%, no state can do anything. The flood destroyed their extra apartments. The question now arises whether anyone will compensate people for the damage caused by the inaction of the state or the lack of care about state property because the owners in this case are also dependent on the state as co-owner of the facility. These are the same things that should have been prescribed by law or at least in practice to encourage the Ministry of State Property to think about those cases. [[Intruder: Time, time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1840	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1841	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Rasudiæ, I agree with you absolutely there, there is no dilemma that, for all owners who have been further damaged not only by the earthquake, but because of the inaction that they need to be compensated for all that they have invested to prevent the new damage themselves. I think that in the transitional and final provisions of this law it is even stated that owners who are already exposed to certain costs so that they can live normally, at least roughly in some normal conditions, to provide these bills, to deliver them, and thus be compensated. But I repeat that this is one of the very important provisions for which we are likely to determine by the second reading, this is the social approach that speaks of the position and where it is not established and where no ownership relations are defined. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1842	The next replica, distinguished representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1843	Thank you very much. Dear counterpart Bačić, you are right when you say that the opposition today failed to show all that it showed in the pre-election period and failed to show any big, big grudges to this law because obviously easy solutions to finance and the process itself is not something that can be offered only through simple criticism or describing the situation we hear throughout the day. One is a theory, and another is practice and those who work on the ground know what the problem is and what the City of Zagreb met almost a little more than 4 months ago. I think this government, as well as the HDZ party, has shown how to access this whole story regardless of what happened in the election campaign. We have made clear those basic moves from the very beginning and the first day of the earthquake, clean Zagreb, enable traffic, take care of the most vulnerable and offer a legal solution. There's one part, and the words, I say, judge people. And those who told in the election who they were giving it to. [[Intruder: Time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1844	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1845	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Boric, that I have said three fundamental pillars on which this law rests, but in the end there is nothing without finance. If the damage or compensation, realisation, implementation of the renovation is somewhere around 42 billion kuna as stated in the law, it is clear that, that the role of the state will be much greater than 60% because in many buildings the state owns itself, and these are the most expensive and valuable objects that are owned or owned by public purposes, so that approximately a lot more than 60% of the estimated total funds for reconstruction will have to be provided by the state, we will already see it in this budget that is ahead of us, but given the longevity of the renewal of this whole project, it is necessary to provide these funds, and in that sense neither I, I agree with you, have heard some news today from the left-hand side of the assembly which, which would have been found and made possible, propose solutions which would involve a easier financial solution to this, this cake, to say.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1846	The last replica of Honorable Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1847	Thank you very much. Comrade Bačić, this is a threat. This terrible earthquake has created you with the meaning of EUR 11 billion damage in the Zagreb and Zagreb County and the Zagorje-Krabin County. And I know that the centre of Zagreb is essentially, that earthquake is unfortunately with that elemental disaster showed how much care is given to those who manage 2/3 of the Croatian budget, that is the City of Zagreb. And what's the dysfunction of that I can pass on to you on to my Dalmatia. Well recently there was a man in my village, a man in the orphanage, a rink say you can't which house they are at risk, we can't help him with local self-government because it's private property, and Bandic will spread with donations from, of course, motivated to spend the budgets of the City of Zagreb and on 2/3 of Croatia, we have to be solid, and 2/3 of Croatia remain Forgotten is all threats. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1848	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1849	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear counterpart Bulj, I do not see in this law and do not want to see the concerns of the mayor of Zagreb, but in this law I see above all a large number of our citizens in Zagreb and in the surrounding districts, which are not their fault, destroyed their property. And because their mayor or their mayor or their local mayor is good or bad, the city will tell the court and their fellow citizens, and it is up to us as parliamentary deputies to do everything to the unburdened team and such local officials, to make a law that will help these people. And that is our obligation, so we are talking about this law and we are talking about the work of the mayor of Zagreb or another local self-government leader very soon will have something to say to Croatian citizens. Then I guess we'll appreciate this law, or whatever it is. The local self-government made it easier for them to live. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1850	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Ivan Celic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1851	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. At the end of the 4 weeks of the outbreak in Croatia, we have confirmed 206 cases of which were 49 newly diagnosed cases on 21 March 2020. When we thought that nothing worse could happen on March 22nd at 6 and 24am, we living in Zagreb had an earthquake of 5.5 degrees per Richter and in the next 24 hours there were 57 smaller earthquakes. Due to the great damage, of course, the hospitals from which the patients had to be evacuated, as well as the newborns, were already mentioned by counterpart Miletic, Bed Blue Boys, who organised to help evacuate and move to KB Dubrava. According to expert estimates, when going along with one elemental accident, the second one was expected to increase the number of newly diagnosed Corona virus cases, not six weeks after the first Covid 19 case in the Republic of Croatia, and three weeks after the earthquake, the figures showed that this did not affect. The colleagues of the Infectious Diseases Clinic have produced a new concept of Crovid 20, which is actually a combination of Covida-19 and earthquakes, something very specific and which was later published in certain medical journals. No one can argue that the public health response of the Croatian health system that has its faults and virtues was great and if we look at the scale of the number of deaths per million inhabitants, it was in April, so 5 per million in this day we have 140 dead in the Republic of Croatia since Covid 19. The figures are still good and it seems to me that sometimes we are all inclined to do so, we lack the words of gratitude, and this opportunity should be commended by all health care professionals and other healthcare professionals who worked tirelessly 24 hours to make the outcome so. Before us is the law, the Proposal for a Law on the restoration of buildings damaged by an earthquake in the City of Zagreb, Krapina-Zagorje County and Zagreb County, it seems to me that there is a consensus that this legislative proposal will be accepted in the first reading, I believe that both objections and suggestions from the opposition side will be accepted. So, the biggest problem is, a combination of national funds and international sources of funding will be necessary, many times already mentioned. Social criteria are also mentioned, we can put them in the context of long discussions on real estate tax. I'm afraid it would be very difficult to define what social criteria these are, and I'm afraid this law would be difficult to see the light of the day if we put that variable into this bill. So what I would like to mention in the end, so besides achieving maximum asesmatic level, we must also take care of vulnerable groups of our society, people with disabilities. In a meeting with persons with disabilities, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia heard their insistence and the desire to adopt the Accessibility Act as soon as possible, and then, in this context, it is necessary to take care of this bill and the accessibility of buildings for persons with disabilities. First of all, I think of buildings for public purposes whether they are owned by the City of Zagreb or owned by the Republic of Croatia because we also make society equal opportunities and take care of the most vulnerable group of our society.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1852	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative, Marijana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1853	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. You have rightly pointed out once again that our public health system has really responded well and spotfully in this situation, which was at least if we can say surprising and unusual because there have been two crises that shocked not only the citizens of the City of Zagreb and the Krapina-Zagorje County and Zagreb County but also the whole of Croatia. I still remember those birth scenes in front of Croatia's largest birthplace, barefoot, crying, didn't know where their children were, and then followed by that scene of our fan groups that were very organized and spotlessly helped. And this is an opportunity to thank our brave firefighters and civil protection and medical staff and Croatian soldiers, as well as all individuals who have truly shown one great heart.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1854	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of the Cellic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1855	Dear fellow Petyr. We often forget our bright examples, I'd say the patterns, one of them is Dr. Andrija Stampar is the father of modern public health. The loans to be discussed this week on the loan of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the Council of Europe Development Bank are currently being discussed in addition to the provision of money for the reconstruction of destroyed buildings and the strengthening of the public health system. This public health system has shown its quality, epidemiologists who are within the public health system in the Republic of Croatia have done a great job, but it definitely needs to be strengthened further because it is a question of future epidemics that will happen not only in Croatia but also in the whole world.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1856	The next replica, the distinguished representative Fabianic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1857	What I would like to emphasise is that we must have a social dimension precisely in the recovery of this earthquake in Zagreb, because we must have this social criterion according to the principle of solidarity or what Christian charity would say depends on ideological division. But we have to have this criterion for a simple reason because we have a lot of older people who used to be homeowners, which is why they bought a big-square apartment for cheap money, but they also don't have to live because they have a pension of 1,800 kuna. Yes, I agree that there will be controversy, whether property or income censorship, it is up to us to make sure that the citizens have a roof over their heads. Will that be the one they've lived in before? I'm not sure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1858	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of the Cellic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1859	Dear colleague Fabianic, I agree with you. Of course, solidarity should be what every man puts into action, in his engagement, I just wanted to problem the definition of these social criteria, and I agree with you that it is important that every Zagreb and every Zagrebian we provide a roof over their heads and that the government has achieved, a matter of emergency accommodation in a dormitory. Even at this moment, despite all the measures that are by the Ministry of State Property and the City of Zagreb, all the efforts that have been achieved by more than 350 of our fellow citizens and fellow citizens are temporarily placed in a student home and we need to work to find permanent accommodation for our citizens as soon as possible to reduce uncertainty and achieve that they have a life that is worthy of man.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1860	Thank you. The next individual debate is the distinguished representative of Martina Grman Kizivat.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1861	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs. In 14.6.2020, the Society of Construction Engineers of the City of Zagreb provided one of many with... a bill through the portal e-Consultation. The proposal reads that the law is called, the Law on the restoration of buildings damaged by the earthquake in the City of Zagreb, Zagreb County and Krapina-Zagorje County. They considered that the reconstruction should cover infrastructure facilities, it is highly likely that infrastructure structures were damaged in the earthquake as they were in the area of the narrow center of the city of Zagreb in the late 19th century, e.g. The water line was built in 1878, and the sewerage was built since 1892. In the event of damage, the safety of citizens and the stability of buildings and roads may be compromised. So I repeat, the waist also mentioned 14.6. The floods that hit the city of Zagreb a few days ago depend largely on the maintenance of water and sewerage, depending on the quantity of rainfalls, but the last situation suggests that something is wrong under the ground. I believe that infrastructure facilities should have been covered by this law since the city of Zagreb has the highest concentration of people. You should have listened to the proposal of the profession. Now we have a situation to do damage to the damage. Since the fund is being set up, loans could have been made by one move. When you go into reconstruction, everything should be covered, not just the part that is visible otherwise it could be a waste of money and a wasteful restoration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1862	We have one replica of the esteemed representative of Nikolic Romana.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1863	Thank you, Vice President. Well, you've made all the good points here, and it's quite true, I'd just like to point out that despite her profession and warning the ruling citizens of the City of Zagreb, they've been waiting for an emergency recovery since the earthquake, and the recent flood has made them naked for months. Because if at least the roofs of the buildings had been rescheduled now, the citizens living in the center of Zagreb would not have been unprepared for this rainy flood. Why have you waited so long? I don't know, but I'm sure this isn't the safe state and the solidarity state that they've been saying today all day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1864	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1865	Thank you. My colleague Nikolic fully agrees with you. The damage to the earthquake has not been resolved yet, but they have been affected by the flood damage. So solidarity is obviously lagging behind in safe Croatia, and the citizens are already too desperate and listen to us and wonder how far so.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1866	Okay. The next replica is the esteemed representative Sanja Udovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1867	Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, here is a colleague of Martin's who pointed out the problem that is being read from the bill, which was actually not about municipal infrastructure. In fact, this situation can lead us to build houses that we won't actually have to connect to the new infrastructure. What is very important by considering this law is to define either through agreements with the holders, and here I mean the regional self-government or county or with local self-government to plan and to realise ultimately through the financial fund and rebuild the infrastructure. There are water branches, there's sewerage, and I really think that's what the promoter has to pay particular attention to.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1868	Next individual debate, distinguished MP Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1869	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues have said a lot so far, I don't want to repeat things that have already been said, but I just have to do some things. And not only as a representative, but someone who was also found by an earthquake here, whom she found, all that is experienced by the citizens of Zagreb, because I have an apartment in Zagreb or I have the one who gave me the assembly for use. I must say that during not only the earthquake, but also the floods, in fact, there has been an expression of all the infamous unpreparedness of our largest city for any natural disaster. We can talk about what investments were invested, why investments were invested, how investments were invested, but what is a fact in infrastructure, in providing buildings especially in the Lower City in the center, in the Upper City was not invested. And that's not a new problem. So as a historian, I can tell you, and I believe the profession, so first of all, it can tell you that Zagreb is a thorny area and that approximately every 100 or a little less than 100 years there is a bigger earthquake. And that's what happened, a little over 100 years ago, but unfortunately, what happened to Zagreb happened at the turn of the last century. And I'm afraid that in the best Croatian manner we've actually learned nothing from history, we haven't prepared for it, although the city has that office to carry with natural disasters and disasters, but as it's already called, but the only thing that's useful from that office, at least I've seen, are those flyers you Zagrebans have got with accounts or a list of safe areas in case of earthquakes, which are mostly parks and spaces where there are no higher buildings. But let's go back to what's important. So, looking only as a citizen one who walks down the street. My colleagues and colleagues, months after the earthquake on the lower city street, the Upper Town is still covered with a shot and still half blocked and all damaged chimneys, frogs, roofs and roofs are still unrecovered. Some have been brought down, though, because they had to be at the expense of the householder. And it's not that simple for you. And there were stories about the rich inhabitants of the Lower City, the Centre, the Upper City, etc., but I can tell you from my own experience and talking to people that not all of the inhabitants of the Lower City and the Upper City are rich. These are people who inherited or received their property in some other way, therefore, by inheritance, by buying long ago, have a tenant right, etc., etc. These are mostly objects that haven't been invested in not for years, but for decades, and yet the question is why. Namely, many European metropolis can take you for example Madrid and Gran Via, or a large road, the main road in Madrid, seems fantastic after 10 years of systematic investment through the European funds in the reconstruction of buildings, in the restoration of facades, etc. Take a walk in Zagreb, take a walk in the green wave, take a walk in the Upper Town and see what shape our facades are. Not by the guilt of a colleague and a colleague, and I'll tell you why. When you on a house that was built, say, in the '50s, '60s, '70s, so you don't have protection, you change the facade, it'll come out about 200 to 500 kuna per m2. I'm a cartoonist now, but let's say it's a better facade, if you already have isolation, etc., so if you really want to invest good money and get a good front. Do you know how much the square of the facade costs, say, in the upper city after the conservatives do their job? 20,000 kuna per square, so that's the important difference between a colleague and a colleague, because I don't know how many receipts these tenants should have to have, just start from the facades, let alone something else, to take care of it the way they should, to make it look and be consistent with the conservatives and that they can finance it. Of course they're not the only ones, but I'm telling you that most European metropolis invests in it, gives, is co-financed because it's in their interest to have the city center look right and, of course, use it to the residents who will restore the facade to make it energy efficient, etc., etc. Therefore, the City of Zagreb has fallen on this great test of natural disasters and I hope that 2020 does not bring us any more catastrophes because I am afraid that we will fall on it too, I do not know what can happen to Medvednica become a rapidly active volcano. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1870	Thank you. There's a replica, a distinguished representative of the Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1871	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterpart Hajdukovic, you mentioned in your presentation a special office that the City of Zagreb has, which other units, or other cities, do not have, are the Office for Crisis Conditions. When you go to some, when you go to some buildings, then you can see there in the buildings there's a big panon and it's about what's in the case of an earthquake, what's the behavior in the event of an earthquake. I'm sure those who lived in those buildings didn't read it, or watch it, or anything else. But what is the characteristic of this earthquake, and the characteristic of these floods, is that the mayor is dead cold for all accused citizens. The citizens of the City of Zagreb are guilty, they are guilty because they chose him as mayor, but they are not guilty of a number of other situations, they are not guilty of having a crisis office that works well when everything is fine, but as soon as something happens, there is no place to go, and they are reluctant to blame everyone else. Not him. [[Intruder: Time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1872	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1873	Well, colleagues, yes, you also have on tram stations, let's say safe zones in case of an earthquake, etc., but the fact is what you said. As for self-recovery and disaster preparation, nothing was done, and thank God it happened like this on Sunday morning, early morning, that there were no major disasters and no sacrifices, God forbid, we only had one. But what's the same problem for you, let's say I know that there's been a lot of pressure on, uh, statisticians, a lot of pressure on the construction profession in general, but the building I'm living in is in the lower city, fortunately not at all unusable, which the statisticians have confirmed, but you know how long it took them to come? Almost two months. God forbid the building was really damaged, if it collapsed, all those people would be in the building. Then what would happen? How much further tragedy would there be? And why is that? Because the city wasn't prepared. The city in a dreary area like Zagreb, which can expect an earthquake, was not prepared. Well, it's a tragedy.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1874	The next replica is Honorable Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1875	Comrade Hajdukovic, you mentioned as all colleagues, transparency in the essence of these funds,... transparent, that any criteria, I'm always careful, I tell you and reason. '89. in Sinj was also in the Cetina region of the earthquake, the state gave money for the reconstruction of Sinj and the Cetina province, but because of the Homeland War, that money was redeployed for the purchase of weapons. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] But then, as a loan, the Tedesci family took that money and never returned. I'm looking for 15. And now these families are the richest in the country. The money that was needed at that time was more than the bread to defend against the great Serbian aggression I never know where, I who raised and the criminal charges, spoke on the Anti-Corruption Council, spoke to the state attorney, spoke to the assembly, never the people of Sinj and the Cetin region of Dalmatia found out where the money for the purchase of the weapons that was sent for the earthquake in Sinj and the Cetinski region was never found out. That's why we're trying to take care of transparency, and I always doubt that transparency because the tycoons have gotten on someone else's side. [[Intruder: Time]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1876	Replica response, distinguished representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1877	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, fellow Bull, I can't talk about a specific case, but what I can say is that absolutely in this case there should be a criterion of justice. And what does that mean? That as a social state, the Republic of Croatia must ensure a certain level of justice in the distribution of money intended for reconstruction. For example, is it fair for a person who owns more property in the City of Zagreb to bear the same cost as those who have an apartment that is their only home? Is it the same as who can explain it to me so far I've never heard the answers. So, they mention the replacement houses and mention the house recovery. Who's going to get that, by what criteria? Unfortunately, we have left our hips open again, and I still doubt that there will be a lot of, a lot of abuse to look at holes in the law and that we will not actually achieve what was the goal, which is for our fellow citizens who are really affected by the earthquake and who cannot bear the cost of rebuilding themselves to help them.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1878	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Anka Mrak-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1879	Thank you, well-respected Vice President HS, dear colleagues and colleagues. We have before us the Law on the restoration of buildings damaged by the earthquake in the first reading. As I said on behalf of the club, and now I'm going to say it again, we appreciate it going into two readings because we think it's an extremely important law. No law can be seen in a way that is carved into stone and that nothing will change. Even more so through committees, and through debate, it has been said several times that all those remarks that come to be considered and watched, installed, I hope it will be so. In our first reading after four months of earthquakes, we have a law where we have, we have three unknowns. The first unknown is how many buildings are in the City of Zagreb, those who are damaged public purposes, who, many of them are multi-inhabited, how many are family, how many are business, how many are residential and business. Another unknown to us is how much it's going to cost together. Because this 42 billion or 43 billion is something that's been done like that. Dr. Rukavin came in, and he was a little appraisal, and they weren't real estimates because the real view of the building wasn't there yet. And the third unknown whether it will last 10, 15, 20, 30 or 40 years. Therefore, it is very difficult and some things in this law to determine and do. I'm sure no one has a magic wand because if they did, they'd try to change those things. There are a few things in this law to point to. The first thing that we have citizens, one citizen who will get a replacement house, can be obtained at another location if it is the one where the slide is in a particular square, other citizens who, instead of the house, can receive money and third citizens who, according to this proposal, will receive constructive reconstruction of the building, so we have 3 types, 3 types of citizens. The legitimate question is he gave it a good one? The legitimate question is why? The legitimate question why did we decide to do that? But that's how the legislator decided. Next thing you know, it's fund-building. It is a fund that will be established by a contract between the state and the city. What if the city tells me I don't need that fund? What will the work of the fund be financed from? Who's going to work in that fund? Why didn't one administration within the ministry decide because the ministry makes decisions anyway? Why didn't he decide to make one administration within the Ministry to deal with and make decisions and all these other things? Why did it decide to build a fund? So what was once said in relation to the comparison of Dubrovnik's Institute of Reconstruction then it was said that it was a bad experience because if I said everything I said I would say wrong, but that one large percentage of the funds were for the work of the institute. And this is how one part of the funding will be for the fund's work, and some new people will work there, some new jobs. Why? Is that what we need now? I'm not sure we need to, or even think differently. There are two provisions in the law that are extremely controversial to me. One provision is yours. 22.St. 2. which speaks of removing buildings where it is said that "for removing buildings where the owner cannot be found or the owner is unknown can remove the building without the consent of the owner", there is this in another law, but it has in relation to illegal construction. And in another law there is that when the building is ruined, when you don't know who owns it, when it's dangerous for life, when it's even dangerous for around it then you can crash and then those funds that are invested in the demolition go to the burden of that building. But this isn't the case, these are buildings that are damaged in the earthquake and with which there has to be something else. And something that's just as controversial to me is the provision of an article. 50th said to build buildings for temporary accommodation. So the assumption and restoration will take 10, 15 years, so that's the assumption that it is and now the state will build a building in which it will temporarily accommodate some people. Why? For what? What's that for? What location? So when the POS went to Zagreb, the City of Zagreb said he had no land on which he could give a location for the construction. How long will it take, how big will this building be, how many inhabitants do we need, what kind of contracts will they have? So, this is the next problem that is in this law, and since my time is up, everything about multiple residential buildings needs to go through a serious analysis because there's a series of things that are collapsing with some other laws and some other story. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1880	Replica, distinguished representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1881	Thank you very much. I think you've asked a set of good questions, a set of questions that we don't have an answer to, and I would at least call the law in this reading an equation with all the unknowns. So our only acquaintance is money or the amount of money the state wants to spend. Everything else is going to be distributed, to whom, how, when we very little to know nothing about it. Let's hope, as you said, that the proposal until the second reading will make it better. But time has no co-worker because many tenants had to reach out to either the stockpile of the building itself, either in some other way, or to raise loans in order to resuscitate what had to be remedied, the chimneys, the walls that threatened to collapse, or the threat of public security. And finally, as far as temporary accommodation is concerned, we're talking about a state that is unable to write down its assets. We don't know how much real estate the state has. Is it cheaper to rebuild, is it cheaper to adapt or is it cheaper to build a new one? Obviously to build a new one. What kind of interest? I wouldn't go into that.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1882	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1883	Surely this earthquake opened up some old ones, but he also opened up some new questions. My colleague Hajdukovic and I are living in the same block and we are looking at the same yard and we are fortunate to live in a block that has been maintained, so you see it from the yard façades, our yard facades are arranged because we were editing them ourselves, no matter how many buildings there are in that block, and we were maintaining them. And we've had damage, we've suffered damage from chimneys that have collapsed, not because we haven't maintained real estate, but because simply, I could be bothering and drowning here, there's a series of chimneys that haven't been used, they haven't been used and logically they've collapsed. You have a situation where one building has done damage to another building. So there's no easy solution and there's no simple story. I have to be honest with all of this, it's not easy to write a law that you want to solve, but it's always fatal not to solve anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1884	Another replica of the esteemed representative Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1885	Dear colleagues, Dark Taritash. You said in the case that predicted this law if the owner is unknown, I don't think it should be invented hot water when it's long ago invented, and even in Dubrovnik's Rehabilitation Act that you mentioned there's an institution of guardians. In this part, all towns and municipalities in the Republic of Croatia have the same problem with the ruins that the owner is unknown or does not care about. I don't think that's at all controversial in this part. And as for the expenses of the institute or trust fund as you mentioned, the costs will be the Bureau, the fund. I think that in this part of the fund, which is already a haunted solution in many situations related to the financing of numerous projects in the whole of Croatia, as well as with the experience of European funds, I think that at this point the best solution is as foreseen by this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1886	The answer to the esteemed representative, Dark Tarritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1887	I don't agree with you at all on the first and second things. The first thing, of course, that the buildings that were abandoned were also about buildings that were damaged during the Homeland War, so the owners were somewhere else where there were two walls left and that the law gave the possibility of them being removed. But this isn't this case. So this isn't the type of building, it's the buildings, I asked on the Committee on Space where you were and how much we actually think we have in the City of Zagreb that's going to have to collapse. You know how much? Six to seven. So it's not some strange building and some unknown story, it's actually your interest rate. After a month of the earthquake, I heard the following, we'll buy cheap apartments, we'll tear down houses, we'll have a parking lot in the city center, and today... and the proposo of that crashes one building to expand the parking lot and says every day I'll cash them all the money I need. Therefore, it is a blending and loaning and we must not allow it to be in the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1888	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Sanja Udovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1889	Dear Vice President HS, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here, in my debate, I will come from an irrefutable fact, which is that the bill is in the interest of the Republic of Croatia and in the public interest. And in that context, I must mention the transparency that has been repeated here today, I would say, on many occasions. Why is transparency important? Well, transparency is important so that we can follow this procedure from the beginning to the end. It is important to proceed in a transparent manner with the establishment and work of the Expert Council for Reconstruction. It is also important to establish the Fund for Reconstruction, and it is also important to monitor the restoration of damaged buildings in a transparent manner. What is good in this bill is, I would say, in one part of its retroactive application because indeed citizens who had to make the necessary resolutions cannot actually welcome the return of their funds because they are certainly expenditures that their home budgets do not suffer. I would also say that, in the context of the proposal for this law, it is necessary to pay particular attention to the compliance of this law with the laws governing the issue of environmental protection. So why is that necessary? It is necessary for several reasons, and it is certainly the amount of objects that need to be restored, and thus the amount of construction waste that will be produced by that restoration. Namely, all of us who act as executive authorities have met in our work with discarded quantities of both municipal and construction waste in the environment. If the Ministry or the Executive Authorities do not control the negotiation process, whether it will be through a public call or that contract will go directly by the contracting authorities or investors, if they do not control where such waste will end up, we will find ourselves in a situation where the environment will be polluted and local or regional self-government will have to invest again citizens' funds in order to resuscitate such situations and certain private interests will profit from it. I would also point out, with the combination, that the legal regulation is actually in line with the one regulated by the Ministry of Culture. I would say that it is good how much I have read that there has been a change in the legislative regulation regarding the outcome of the consent of the Ministry of Culture in the works of recovery or construction works on cultural goods or protected by historical integrity. This is good because the construction operation, which we are witnessing, will be able to offer its offers, but it would also be bad to leave that control to go by the state inspectorate or the control of the Ministry of Culture i.e. building inspections. We would not want to get anything that no longer responds to its original form or how it is predicted by the Ministry of Culture to be, after the implementation, of the rebuilding of the earthquake-damaged buildings. Also, what we must reiterate is the social component of this law and cannot possibly agree that those 20% where it is intended to cover actually an investor or orderly of the recovery take over a household or a person who cannot pay it for his own, his own social reasons. For this reason, I believe that the promoter has plenty of time to work out this particular part of the funding, and so one complete and improved proposal goes further on to another reading. I hope, too, that the Proposer will respect all the constructive remarks that have been made today and will in this context supplement the law and refer it to adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1890	We have one replica, the esteemed representative Mirela Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1891	Respected Udovic, this law will allow an escalating violation of the Law on State Waste Management. We also have some examples of how this law has already been violated on the strategic energy project of the LNG terminal where the performer puts waste concrete into pieces of paradise in Omislje into the sea. We also witness almost daily opportunities where the waste from digging up on some projects is delayed or transported illegally without compensation because the contractor is cheaply free of cost to solve waste, and the one who receives the waste is re-illegal and sells it as raw materials and grinds it where it cannot. JLS report irregularities, and inspections of course do not respond. So much for protecting the environment that will be completely neglected in this vast and long-term restoration. I am afraid and I hope that the proposal will be accepted to protect the environment, to give greater attention to this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1892	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1893	Thank you. Comrade Mirela, you have well pointed out the examples of the practices we are witnessing. I must say that there is indeed a great danger of the influence of illegal and inadequately disposed waste. One such example is we in the Viskovo municipality where we have completely illegally rejected industrial waste of the popular name "Black Jama Sovjak" where here are 2.g. We're actually waiting for the contractor to be selected, and here I remind you that the Municipality of Viskovo signed a contract on construction rights two years ago. So, two years. it is necessary to carry out rehabilitation work, to carry out certain procedures for which it is competent in the specific Ministry of Construction through the implementation of the Environmental Protection Fund. That's what we don't want and we need to influence now and install all those tools and mechanisms into the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1894	Thank you. Next individual debate, distinguished representative Drazen Barisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1895	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. First of all, I would like to join those colleagues who, before me, expressed their gratitude to all those who took part in the recovery process that had been in the past four months and all these days, not only during the earthquake but also during the flood, were with our fellow citizens and my fellow citizens. I say to my parents, I don't live in Zagreb, but I was born in the largest city near Zagreb, so to Velika Gorica where I am currently the mayor and we and the Zagrebans say that we are not together, and yet we are together. The earthquake that we are faced with, a fundamental disaster that is unpredictable with the changes and consequences that have entered every family, each man certainly created the personal uncertainty of family, business, public, we can say almost and existential tensions and such a situation and together try trust in public institutions, the function of the city, the state, society actually raises many questions. This condition of many is unknown to our lives, except for the war situation, resulting in the first shock, and eventually the finding of a solution. However, this bill of law and this situation where we are all now is a crisis, but it is a crisis we should recognize as a chance. I said that I am from Velika Gorica, every day 20,000 of my fellow citizens migrate between Velika Gorica and the City of Zagreb, and we are faced with his condition daily, we are concerned about his future and how we will resuscitate him. However, not only for him, but for all other surrounding villages which are from Krapina-Zagorska County or Zagreb County, of course with what means and how and within what time. What is not said here, and what should be taken into account that Zagreb has for a long time been in the metropolisation process, that it is urban and old or too old and new construction, which is legal and, in particular, illegal, and especially impelingly fed up and that it is sewing mainly towards the east, west or most south where my Turopolska valley is located, in total, towards Zagreb County. Throughout history, it was from the Upper City, the Lower City and then it was up to Sava and now through Sava and now, as I said, it is spreading not only towards Velika Gorica, Samobor, St. Nedjelja, Ivanic, Zapresic, Long Village or all other cities. Fortunately, the Sava River as a seismic border has made it impossible for the effects of the earthquake to be felt in our cities, these cities that I have now mentioned, to be one of the reasons. And the other reason why we younger cities, cities that were created only 50 years ago in its intensive construction, and the standards of their construction were the result of new standards created after Skopje, Banja Luka, Montenegro or other earthquakes that were in the former association and then these standards were applied to construction. Why am I bringing this up? I would like to point out that the consequences of the earthquake in Zagreb or all the other events that occurred in our metropolis are not only concentrated on the City of Zagreb but also on the agglomeration around the City of Zagreb, which now counts somewhere around a million and 200 thousand people, so this is almost one third of Croatia. Zagreb seems to us as I said not only the metropolis, so it is not a city that has only a traffic hub, cultural, historical, economic, academic, scientific, political, but it is our home that I have to live with and this proposal is very high-quality and professional and has been adopted in cooperation with the profession and regulates many ways and procedures of restoration, care, offering funding models 60-20 will never be ideal, but I think it is a good basis for us to bring in productive, fair, social and in implementing transparent documents that will kill different professional interests, so it is something that we should also talk about, so lobby, respecting primarily the rights of citizens to live in their homes, and public services to function and to create new time standards for us to create a new metropolis for Croatia. It would therefore end up stressing that one word that is most often carried out today on the occasion of first reading is that it should also be the thought of a guide during this process of passing a very important law that will also have other repercusions, as I said socially, which is solidarity. If we are to be solid both in the adoption and implementation of this law then we will be solid and human, and therefore as persons, people, citizens who love their Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1896	Thank you. Next individual debate, distinguished representative Marko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1897	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President of the Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues. On 22.3. when we all woke up early in the morning we saw the devastating effects of the earthquake, and me as a geofisicist to someone who was and through the study educated I remembered lectures where teachers told us that 99% of the likelihood that Zagreb would suffer an earthquake stronger than 6 per Richter over the next 100 years. What we've seen is 5.5 and I think the devastating effects on more than 24,000 houses and buildings were very large. As the prime minister himself summed up, the government began with an investment of 141 million kuna, 41 million kuna of water heaters, 100 million kuna of dental walls, as well as a rent for replacement apartments. The damage has been estimated at $86 billion, and this has been assessed together with the World Bank as part of its application to the Solidarity Fund. Those were criticisms for the Solidarity Fund are delayed with the application, you are late with the application, but the same application should be done in a way that, according to the recognised methodologies behind which the World Bank could receive a refund from Brussels. Since we have been recognised EUR 500 million of costs of which EUR 89 million is already in early August, it says enough how well we have done the job. In addition, we have EUR 200 million in loans from the World Bank, and we may just repeat what the European Solidarity Fund will be used for, for 4 components, so for the restoration of the basic infrastructure, I don't know who said it won't be possible to restore it, through the European Solidarity Fund, bringing schools and hospitals, so education and health systems into the initial state, for renting apartments and also for providing cultural goods in terms of the skeleton, and for the cost of clearing up the area of the City of Zagreb. In addition, we have EUR 200 million in loans from the World Bank, the same for the health and education system, as well as the Council of Europe Development Bank, which will be able to be used for private housing. A lot is said today about the law itself, let's say something else we can do about the additional activities of this law. We are aware that the law defines the construction reconstruction in principle 60:20:20 knowing that the construction reconstruction is about 60 to 70% thereby half the states and those who are, who live in buildings, will take over the renovation. We are also aware that social criteria should be developed and we support this inter-party agreement in the assembly. But also for the future we can also through the Recovery Fund and through the multiannual financial framework get a special priority axis dealing with the earthquake, these were Italians who had 5% cohesion could have been given to this, it is possible to negotiate this in the autumn with the European Commission, it could not have been before because it had to wait for the multi-annual financial framework to be concluded. The Recovery Fund can also be used through energy efficiency, which will be further counter-shocked. Therefore, the funding lines we have so far, and we have at least EUR 700 million + the Council of Europe Development Bank, we will be able to strengthen both with the Recovery Fund and with the multiannual financial framework, so that the success of the Republic of Croatia, which we have had of 22 billion euros, will be able to use in part for the reconstruction of the City of Zagreb. I am sorry that there are no colleagues of Ostojic, he spoke about projects relating to the mitigation of the crisis, there is, I think, that Mr. Vice President Sanader said quite well about fire, as far as seismology is concerned, there are 6 million kunas for documentation for the 120 million kuna project, and we also expect 2 million euros from Norwegian funds for research and development. Therefore, the government has done its best, and we hope by compromise we can reach quality laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1898	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Marijana Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1899	Thank you, Vice President. Here's a dear colleague and fellow MPs, here's to start, here's what I think we all agreed here, so we're a solidarity society, we react to the misfortunes of our colleagues, our neighbors, our families, we automatically want their help, and that's how it should be. When we talk about a long-term restoration, we should also keep in mind our constitution and the article of the constitution that guarantees property, which is the right to ownership, but which also says that ownership is binding, which means when you have property, you have to take care of it. Why didn't people take care of their property? Well, for a number of different reasons. We can begin with the fact that in the old country too, the right of ownership is poorly defined, is, therefore, the social property of everyone and nobody. There were also in the centre of Zagreb and in the centre of other cities restrictive regulations in the city center, so where almost every house is a monument, you have restrictions and it is often impossible to invest anything. Or at the state level, there's no such thing as an earthquake insurance scheme, so it's an obligation for people to take insurance from earthquakes. For all these reasons, therefore, the burden of this restoration cannot only fall on private property owners but must be borne by it in one part of both the state and the city. The proposed scheme here is 60:20 or 80:20 cannot actually be universal and unique but should be made such that it is specific to a particular case and that it takes different criteria. It is not all the same, therefore it is necessary to take care of the type of property, ownership, whether it has not been maintained, whether it has been secured, whether or not the owners were responsible, whether it is the only property or one of many, etc., so a lot of different criteria should be taken into account when it is determined, therefore whether or not it should depend on how much the funds will be invested by the State. In this law, or perhaps in some other laws, we should actually think about the future. In the future, I think it is necessary to address insufficient coverage with earthquake insurance, so by example of some other countries and other countries, there is an obligation to provide real estate from earthquakes, and the premium is determined by the threshold of the risk level of earthquakes, according to the state of real estate. Investments to reduce potential damage should also be strengthened, e.g. mortgage loans aimed at financing works to reduce damages, the reduction of the insurance premium after such an investment, etc., and the broad availability of insurance could also be secured through vouchers, and the amount of that voucher would depend on the income of the household itself. Thus, different well-designed models would be motivated by owners to restore their property, raise the level of protection, and reduce insurance premiums and thus minimise risks both for themselves and for the state. Finally, this is a law on the restoration of Zagreb and the environment, but it should certainly create a legal framework for all of Croatia, so the framework for this should actually be a framework for meeting all basic requirements for construction under the Construction Act and that of the EU Energy Recovery Directive covering and protecting against fires and earthquakes. Also, I don't know if anyone mentioned, in this law, a parallel system is being introduced in some way making project documentation of supervision, performance, usable permission, mentioned here often Dubrovnik as an example of the restoration of Dubrovnik. We see that this law that was then passed, whether, 40 years ago, it was still in use, so it should never have happened that this law that we are now passing here and, therefore, for the next 40 years. The fund introduced here as a special body, a special form, could also be used by the Environmental Protection Fund because there are already capacities and human and procedural that a fund like this is actually being realised there, and one, here, question, question for the end, in which, here, I personally do not understand, in art. The 10th century of the 2nd century says that the space of the historic urban whole of Zagreb is produced by the Programme of the entire restoration of the historic urban city of Zagreb and its construction in the 3rd century, built by the Institute for the Spatial Planning of the City of Zagreb. Does that mean that this historic whole will be restored separately from this program? Should it, then, begin with the restoration of the Upper City, the Lower City, the Capitol, especially with the adoption of this programme? Most of it's here. Zagreb should use this earthquake, not for patching buildings, but for an opportunity to develop. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1900	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Dalia Oreskovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1901	... Thank you. [[Specially enabled.]] [[Intruder: microphone.]] The reconstruction of Zagreb and its surroundings will take decades, and it is crucial that the renovation be done in quality. It is an important speed in the reaction, but it must not cause rapid legislative solutions. With the complexity of the renewal in mind, this law could be one of the most important documents of this assembly, therefore I warn you, we must not be in haste to become producers of legal holes. From the HDZ ranks a few minutes ago, the opposition was said to have failed to point out greater objections to the law. That's not true. Well, colleagues from HDZ, there's a lot you could hear during today's debate and your comment, you just showed that you're not interested in constructive proposals and solutions, I hope it won't be like that until the second reading. Furthermore, you boasted of the means of funding provided and pointed out, one is a theory, and the other is a practice. We're waiting for you right here. Are you sure you've really secured all the necessary funds or made an account without a receipt? In fact, an estimate of the 11.5 billion-euro damage was made according to the emergency report methodology, but it is not a final and precise figure. The state of finance in the city of Zagreb is assumed to be empty. I will point out what has been highlighted as a professional association, which is that the renewal itself could be implemented under existing laws, so the essence of this law that we are discussing on this very day is in this ratio in which the state and the city will participate in the financing of the renovation. The consensus of the ruling and one part of the opposition over the co-financing ratio concerns a little bit. As it worries and calls for solidarity because the issue of solidarity has already sparked recommendations in the public, and a law like this must not be the cause of new social divisions and we must not allow it. All the subsidy and aid models that we have used as a state in different areas have been more beneficial both to the painful and influential groups than to the poor. So again, I point to two fundamental problems of this law. The first is that solidarity must not be linear without respecting and developing social and economic criteria, and the other problem is that this law has built-in serious corruption risks. The non-transparency that we talked about a lot is one of the most important problems, but certainly the fact that all the important issues are planned to be defined by subsequent acts, from the role of the Reconstruction Fund to the disposal of construction waste. All of the above points to the deception of citizens rather than to some legislative solution that would follow the whole restoration of what the profession calls for. So I see that the usual approach to lawmaking has been re-applied, and that's how we're going to do it. That's why we're like the state right where we are right now. At the bottom. Until the second reading, there is plenty of time to build a law whose consequences after the completion of the renewal will not be ashamed. That's what I'm asking you to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1902	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Damir Bakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1903	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I would estimate that this law is actually going in the right direction. Some of his provisions are mostly on the trail of our ideas and our efforts. Of course, there is much room for improvement and there is a particular need for improvement, and my colleagues have already spoken about it in their presentations on behalf of the club of representatives. I would point to two more specific things right now and make two concrete proposals. First of all, expert advice, it is an expert body consisting of 15 experts of different disciplines that are explicitly numbered from prominent institutions that are also explicitly numbered. What's actually visible at first sight is that someone or something is missing. There's a seismologist missing. In short, for quite obvious reasons, we suggest that the expert body be expanded to some of the colleagues and colleagues from the geophysical department of the Faculty of Natural History and Mathematics, specifically with some of the seismologists. The other thing I want to point out is art. 14. which states that we will restore our buildings to certain anti-quake resistance, to a certain level of anti-quake resistance, and these levels are described in a document called "Technical regulation on changes and additions to the technical regulation for construction structures". Anyway, there's these levels, so the level of anti-quake resistance is numbered 4, the 4th is the highest, and there's a number of buildings that are being restored to what level. Understandably, objects of particular importance to the entire community such as The hospital is being restored to 4 levels, and objects of wider social importance are being restored to the anti-quake resistance level 3, e.g. It's kindergartens, schools, cinemas, theaters, etc. What we see is a problem with residential buildings and residential buildings that are being restored to level 2 or 3 depending on whether they are more or less damaged. We consider this provision illogical and in fact unfair, so we do not see any rational reason why two residential buildings that should generally be treated equally so that two residential buildings are restored to two different levels of resistance to earthquakes depending solely on how damaged they were at this point. However, another problem with this technical regulation is the way these levels of anti-quake resistance are described. They are described as so-called. return periods, it's a professional term, it's actually a statistical category, these return periods are explicitly listed as 95, 225.g. And in 475 C.E., and in fact it's a statistical category from which seismologists actually perform what is important to statisticians, engineers, builders, and this is an acceleration of the movement of the ground during the earthquake. The problem is now in the following, we, RH, have very precise seismological maps for a 95-year return period, which corresponds to level 2, we have precise cards for a 475-year return period, which corresponds to level 4 and we don't have precise cards for, for a return period of 225-g. Data for this return period are likely to be calculated by some approximation, by some interpolation, and should actually be seen as how this approximation was performed, thus more, so rather necessary to help call seismologists. My proposal and, in fact, our club's proposal to review this technical document and, if necessary, correct it, we have plenty of time for this to be adopted by the final proposal of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1904	Next individual debate, distinguished representative William Matula.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1905	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I want to talk to you, I agree with my colleague Bakic that this law is in the right direction and I am convinced that by our action when we woke up the night we were concerned, with the right to worry, in front of the assembly, insisting that at that moment we continue to work on the law whether there is a right. However, here it is, four months after the earthquake, we are obliged to tell citizens that they will not be restored to their apartments, and where they live, much of it is their world. People, especially older people, are a large number of older people in the lower city, poor people, not rich people as they are constantly spoken or perhaps expected to be Mrs. 84 years old. has to go into real estate business and have to deal with agencies now? However, the fact is that what I want to say is that in these 20% if we don't agree, and I'm glad that we heard from the prime minister that he's willing to talk, that he respected the remarks of my colleagues, about the social criteria, because that's too important and that we're going to choose the censorship because we don't only recognize the income, and we know very well that the most dangerous guys in this town when you come to them don't have any income, let alone property because we don't write anything on them, and we're all afraid, all of you who are 30. This is where you work. So, our citizens and citizens are going to have to pay, be in charge, or I don't know how or mortgage their apartments to improve their structure, and what's terrible is that 100. The old buildings have this kind of noise that falls on their own, and when it falls on them in horror that morning, they live with these creepy symbols of total impotence, total impotence, and there is no one there to help them. Here's how it is for now. The other thing I want to talk about anyway, and that's the issue of taking care of people who have been completely killed. In fact, the point is that when we collected 17,000 signatures in a few days for the petition that it made possible, it must have encouraged you to have with us and that at least here's the first reading we read now, four months after the earthquake, and the people in Markushevec were gathering. The woman came and said why I couldn't take my neighbors to my house, I have room and I don't need any money, so give me something. Why doesn't it say anything here? Why doesn't he write about what I said first? It doesn't say that the citizens won't get it, because the law is written like that, and that's a shame because a lot of things are going in the right direction. So let's allow people to help their friends, help their neighbours because they have solidarity unlike those who only advocate market and profit as the only thing that Croats will get out of hell. Just the profit of a few. He won't. And now in the end, I'm going to end up with no idea how much longer I have this, 44 seconds, and where it says that, thank you, I'm going to learn, and that's 34, that's it, I'm losing. Here, I just brought the question here, you had, say, a thing that was better in the first version of the law, which is that you had the establishment of an institution for the rebuilding of the City of Zagreb, not the fund because we know that the fund implies money and you actually want to tell us that Mr. Prime Minister, I don't know what kind of skill this has brought all these gifts to us and that it's a fund, and not a fund that he predicted, look, 3 pages had it all.../incomprehensible/... this allowed It's to be an institution, and like this, it's a fund. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1906	You don't have a mask.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1907	Excuse me. And I, a shame, to be carried on, to apologize, to be ashamed, to feel sorry for myself.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1908	Replica's esteemed representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1909	Yeah, okay, thanks.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1910	It's okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1911	Okay, a little time, okay. My colleague's fact is, I'm going to say it one more time, it was a similar situation in the Cetitian province. Then there was money.../incomprehensible/... was an earthquake and the money was for Sinj, the Cetinski end of the state secured in '89, the Homeland War started, the money was redeployed for arms, and the guns weren't bought but the Tedeschi family took the loan and never returned that money, one 4.5 times I raised a criminal report like that and never got rid of it. I spoke here in the assembly, everywhere, so now these are the richest families in Croatia who have become rich in that disaster and war and earthquake. You're the ones who said, you're the ones who are afraid. I personally have one against such tycoon characters, and I don't know which one, one hundred criminal charges, I'm not afraid of them. So can you name the guys here who are afraid of guys like that and who are those guys? I'm not afraid of anyone but God, you went there theaterically, you're an actor, you tell me who I'm afraid of, you're holding hands with us. Assembly MPs. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1912	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1913	Mr. Bulj, I believe you're not afraid, I believe. On two occasions you're with the boys who are afraid, on two occasions you tried to collate with them because they're more ideologically close to you, but you're personally, I don't know about these other boys of yours as brave as they are, and I saw that your colleague was running away from a very dangerous prime minister who's known as a visprene what and skillful, but in any case I don't doubt that you're bold, I believe and that you're a people's tribune and I think you say a lot of things very well. I agree with that. However, people who have been around most of this area for 10 years and have allowed such malignant formation to develop not only in the city but also in the state and that nothing can go through in a second-degree court, let alone in a high court You know that. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1914	Representative Bulj, here's your breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1915	Dear fellow I respect your theater, you have not answered my question.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1916	What, what's the injury to the article?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1917	Article 238 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1918	What's hurt?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1919	He hurt by speaking on my line, and he didn't really answer who I was afraid of.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1920	It's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1921	Because the theater, let's not hurt the Rules of Procedure in this assembly have the tribune speak by name, was it...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1922	It's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, I give you a warning. The next replica, distinguished representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1923	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Matul, I agree with you absolutely is this late law, so it was... I'm saying I agree with you that this is a late law. [[Intruder: You don't understand.]] So there was a time and if there had been a will, they would have long ago absorbed that law and before the release of the last term, they would have already given at least some certainty to people affected by the earthquake if they knew what they were on at least part of it. Now, you've touched what I just mentioned, and that's the structure of the property owner in the city center. I can speak from the perspective of Osijek, and I can paint it in part in Zagreb. These are either people who have received apartments by inheritance, older people, holders of housing rights etc., etc., who often live in non-conditions, waste houses, yard apartments, wet apartments etc., etc. What's going to happen to them now because absolutely some objects, some sneaky, some temporary objects will be for.../incomprehensible/... this is not our responsibility. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1924	Replication response. Honorable representative of Matula.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1925	I thank you for this intervention to the esteemed representative. I'll be very brief on this. In all cities, the situation is the same, what happened in Zagreb is that three natural disasters in such a short time, first this infection, and then the earthquake, and now this weekend and the floods actually led us to realize that what was called the former normal, that it was a social, difficult social disaster and people who acted in power for the most part of the 30 years are therefore responsible. It was a difficult social disaster, and I believe that's the case in Osijek.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1926	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Domagoj Ivan Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1927	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow Matula, I agree with the great majority of what you said, especially about our oldest citizens and the most endangered, though, I think we all know that when you moved out somewhere in the old age, then unfortunately they don't live much longer. But we actually have one question for you because you mentioned that we are afraid of someone here or that we should be afraid of, I would ask you, who are you or what is this about? I'm not afraid of anyone, I teach my children there, and I don't think anyone in this country has anything to fear after 1990. We are building institutions hard, they are not yet perfect, far from it, but I think we are on a good path and we should believe in institutions and all together, especially in this highest home in Croatia and build together, so only if you can say so. I think, I stand behind it, there is no reason, not in this house, but no one in Croatia is afraid of anyone or anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1928	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1929	I'm glad you're not afraid and I believe that in that direction you'll finally start something together from the HDZ and do it. I experience this, of course, as your pre-election campaign for the City of Zagreb because it is called that you are a candidate in the City of Zagreb and had to put a new face, you are capable as an entrepreneur, although I have heard that this is a large part of the inheritance, but they say that you are capable in this sense. ... What? ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And that's not how the media says it, but good. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] In any case, what you're going to have to do and what's certainly this whole operation... is how to explain that circus we saw up until a few months ago with chips, with that horrible name your partner in Zagreb was doing and you're a coalition partner and you watched as you bought congregation people, you know, and you brought all of you lex sheriffs for Bandic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1930	Time. Next individual debate, distinguished representative Sandra Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1931	Honorable Vice President, MPs and MPs. Today we have talked a lot about what is missing in the law, how it needs to be repaired, how to ensure social sensitivity within the law, how to introduce criteria that will enable those who do not have the means or the 20% co-financing to still be able to restore their apartments. However, perhaps we are, I would not like to bypass one of the key issues, and this is a question of trust in the way citizens will be implemented and trust in that the funds for reconstruction that we will all raise and which will be really great that they will really be spent in accordance with the purpose and purpose of the law, and not as we are used to happening in Croatia, in unintended ways and in a way that generates corruption and bargaining. So we are aware of the fact that Croatia is extremely low by the perception of corruption within its institutions towards its citizens at the bottom of the EU scale, we are aware that trust in the government but also as an institution is extremely low precisely because of corrupt affairs and HDZ, but certainly because of the corrupt affairs that are burdened by Bandic and the City of Zagreb. I'll say, a few years ago I worked on one research together with one of the institutions for researching corruption from Hungary where we only analyzed the risks of public procurement of the City of Zagreb within five years. Risks detected corrupt risks within the public procurement of the City of Zagreb only on the basis of the lack of competence or a small number of people who appear in the competition because they know in advance that the tenders were furnished showed a loss of more than 2 billion kuna at the level of the five years. For this reason, I believe it is crucial that we provide within this law an independent supervisory mechanism that will enable and monitor it with independent experts, but also with representatives of the Parliament, that in real time all data can be obtained on how much funds are collected, how much funds go when the kind of public procurement, how much funds are spent. In real time we can see how they are spent, we can see what companies are involved in implementation, all of these things can be seen today in real time if we use tools and if there is political will. We also believe that this body, apart from having to be independent, would have to be able to monitor and report both the Parliament and the public on the corrupt risks that we have within the public procurement system used for recovery. This is extremely important because it shows us the possibility of saving that we would have if these corrupt risks were removed, among other things a small number of competitors in individual competitions. What I also want to say is to prevent the strengthening of the clienteleist network that already exists, especially within the construction lobby and large works done in Croatia, to prevent it, it is important to stop it and how we will position and where we will position, in which body we will position the possibility of contracting public procurement. For this reason, we have demanded that it be and we propose that it be an institution as an expert body that will manage all public procurement and total renewal because what is important in this regard? It is important that the entry into the public procurement system is not too high-level, i.e. we do not again have 5, 6, 7 large companies that will take over all jobs, and then agree under their co-operative conditions, but to open, in particular through a system of framework agreements, to open up to a large number of market players because it will reduce then actually the corrupt risk. We're going to have more offers, we're going to have lower prices than the ones we set as maximum, and we're going to make the whole reconstruction more efficient, and maybe we're going to restore trust, or at least a part of the public's trust that doesn't exist right now. And I think that a large number of complaints that come in fact about the whole system of the Rehabilitation Act and the fact that the funds will be allocated actually comes from mistrust in HDZ and Bandic that they can, that they can be given so much money that they manage them and that they are the ones who manage the reconstruction. For this reason, we need independent mechanisms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1932	Thank you. We have three replicas. The first is Commissioner Ahemetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1933	Dear Representative Bencic, I agree with you that it is necessary to take advantage of this opportunity and introduce great transparency or much more transparency in spending public money than is otherwise applicable. This is an opportunity to inauguration the example that the ruling majority has announced. The transparency of spending on local and regional levels. So where better example than when you give an opportunity to spend billions and billions, so multiple the size of the city budget into just one project to rebuild buildings. So this is an opportunity to show, namely, how serious they are in their intention to introduce transparency into local and regional units.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1934	Thank you. I absolutely agree that this must be one of the examples on which we will begin to rebuild trust, but there is a key role, I would say, Parliament, because we cannot trust that this executive authority, but especially, also, the executive power at the level of the city of Zagreb, which will be the founders of the fund, will install those mechanisms that have not been installed in any kind of procedure or any kind of public affairs of this kind for the past 30 years. For this reason, yes, I believe that we must set this up as a rule now, but that this mechanism must be independent because we cannot trust the founders to monitor and report to the public themselves about everything that is going on within the reconstruction process.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1935	The next replica is the esteemed representative Željko Sacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1936	... Bencic and I support this institute must be installed in the existing i.e. It's a recommendation, of course. [[Specially enabled.]] We are in favour because we have extremely bad experience so far in spending public money, and this is the parexellance of public money, the taxpayers of our country, and in any case we need to install such an institution of supervision, but which will not slow down, which will not slow down the dynamics of spending and the very purpose of the existence of the law because it still stands in front of our eyes, responding to the negative effect of the renewal of Gunja and these total of all these negative effects of spending of public money.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1937	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1938	Dearly respected, therefore, the system of control and supervision, as well as the setting up of a real-time tracking system and public procurement systems and the negotiation of means of spending, indeed does not slow down the overall procedure in any way, however, makes it more effective for the reasons why such control mechanisms allow you to have them pre-conditions and that preprocess not being so long. Even if you have good control mechanisms in the negotiation process itself. That is why we have just suggested, just as we have suggested that this body be independent and report to the Assembly, but yes, I agree, procedures must not be too long, but must be controlled and must be controlled in real time.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1939	Next replica, the esteemed representative Anton Kleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1940	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues, Bencic, that the procedure must be really transparent, must be clear, and I would just like to ask a question, in these procedures should indeed, if you agree, keep in mind that a large part of this reconstruction is financed from the state budget, that all participants of legal persons should have the same opportunity in the territory of the whole of Croatia. I think this is crucial in view of this message of solidarity that we have sent, indeed all through the debates, that indeed those who are in the contests, if they are in the same situation with the legal persons from Zagreb, so in the same categories, that their tender documentation is egal, that the same thing should be taken care of because in this solidarity we are all the same, so we must be in the performance of the business.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1941	The reply to the replica is a distinguished representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1942	Well, I think that means, of course, and I mean, it's usually in public procurement, of course, that all market entities should be in the same position, but not just that. I asked for more stuff, which is that so-called. The cost of entering that market is not too high. At cost we do not consider money but administrative costs and financial and operational capacity required by the competitor. So, in my opinion, they can be even lower this time in terms of being very small companies because we don't even have enough on the company market to cover all the work we have. So it's a good thing at first we're actually going to the creation of so-called. pools, pools, actually performers by some types of business, and then, if necessary, we contract each individual under those conditions that we have already drawn there, which we are predicting, which is to be a maximum price and that everything is below that... that below it is a competition to get some real price where again I must stress is not a matter of price only and not a price should be the only criterion, criteria must be those social criteria, which is a particular relation to workers, a question of payouts, a question of coverage within the sector, a collective contract, etc., means lower conditions, but when contracts have to be asked a certain social [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] criteria. [[Intruder: Time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1943	Next debate, did you ask for it? ... Yeah. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] Here you go, Tomašević.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1944	Thank you, Vice President. I'd like to be given, two aspects you'd like to look back on in this law. But first of all, remind us again that we definitely need information about all the buildings, about the typeology of buildings that are damaged because it doesn't matter to me whether we restore 500 business buildings with budget money or 100 or 10, how many multiple buildings we're going to, how mixed, what kind of problems in property-legal relations and, in particular, the kind of law we're going to have with regard to how many business-building buildings there are, it's also not the same. So it's very difficult for me to discuss this law the same way without that information. As far as the financial framework is concerned, lots of times, enough is said today. I will remind you, after the earthquake that damaged Dubrovnik, after the earthquake that damaged Ston we had 100% of the funding from the budget of the then state and private facilities and at the level of the former state. Nobody slowed it down then. We had after the flood in Gunja also 100% of the funding and no one slowed it down at that time. We have a 20% participation here, so in this sense it's because it's big, it's really big, because it's going to take, only the state part is going to be 50 billion kuna, so just for that, the state is going to have to have 50 billion kunas or through funds or through loans or from the budget, and it's going to require that kind of participation from that perspective. However, what we have pointed out more than once is that this participation cannot be equal for all, it cannot be equal for business entities in relation to poor and socially endangered groups of citizens who are hardly able to calm down and cannot happen to come into the line 22, and the catcher 22 is that 20% of the people need to co-finance and have to sell their only assets they have because they do not have income, and that they cannot do so because of the mortgage or the hostage right given to them by the state. You understand? So in that situation, that's the catch 22, and from that perspective, I think we should think about social criteria. The other thing I'd like to talk to you about is this institution or the fund. I have already said that the Institute was obviously in some version of the bill because it is in the context of an article. So, I, as an aspiration and power in the City of Zagreb, still knowing not only what the situation will be at the very least for the next nine months, I think, even if it seems in some way a reduction of power may be our future authorities in Zagreb, I do not think it is good that the Institute for the Spatial Planning of the City of Zagreb draws up a plan of full renewal i.e. a program of complete reconstruction of the historic core of the City of Zagreb past, meaning these other institutions that are foreseen by this law, means a fund that is then not only a financial body but also operationally, past then the Ministry of Construction, which is a strategic institution in this legal framework and beyond the expert advice. So, it seems better to me that we still have a solution to have one Institute for the Reconstruction of Zagreb which are co-founders of Zagreb and the state, not to transfer some special competences to the Institute for Spatial Planning of the City of Zagreb when it comes to the historical core. It is clear to me that this Institute of Spatial Planning of Zagreb has not led the operational aspects of reconstruction, however, and only the planning and restoration of the historic core of Zagreb seems to me that this tension between Zagreb and the state could occur, and I am sure that it will actually come to these tensions in the next 9 months, but I hope that, but I think it is a bad institutional solution not to experience such tensions after 9 months, or in the next 10-year period because we are writing a law for people who are now in power here or there, but we are writing a law without knowing who will be in power for the next 10-15 years. So we're doing an institutional framework regardless of the current state of affairs, and regardless of the current state of affairs, I still think that one institution would be a better solution to the model of Dubrovnik, and I understand what problems were related to Dubrovnik's Institute of Reconstruction, and I know that it didn't all go smoothly there, but I still think it's a better solution than what this is now proposed. From that perspective, I hope that we can still open up these topics by the second reading, hopefully this social criteria that are repeatedly ruling said they want to consider will really be discussed, I hope that the stake right will also be considered how to resolve it, I hope that the insurance issue will be considered how to resolve it, so that those who still paid for the insurance is not penalized. So these are some other things that are being solved in the second reading, and I hope that's how it's really going to be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1945	We have one replica, the distinguished representative Mariana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1946	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Col. Tomašević, you have already made observations through public consultation and part of your remarks has been adopted, which only shows that this is about one archbishop law or that the intensity of both the Government of the Republic of Croatia and everyone who cares about this topic is to pass a law that will respect as many good and constructive proposals as possible, and I think that this is extremely important because we can all agree that we want to and implement the law and the law that will lead to it, we are guided by the principle of solidarity, and you have specifically mentioned social criteria here, so I would like to hear from you exactly what you mean, how you have worked out these social criteria and what would be your proposal, and in terms of improving this current law in the first reading?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1947	The reply of the distinguished representative Tomašević.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1948	Well, they were mentioned, colleagues mentioned property censorship, but we know it will be quite difficult to implement in Croatia. For that we are not responsible for just now entering politics, I wish we had a list of assets much more up-to-date than we have right now, but I'm afraid we won't be able to solve it so easily in the next two months. And on the other hand, the income criterion is something that we can apply and it will be difficult to apply from the perspective of different classes and burdens that these 20% of co-financing in these income classes would cut, but on the other hand, we may at least be able to say what I said was a problem of a hostage right, that quack 22, how do we avoid the situation that people who can't get to that 20%, except to sell their real estate, and they can't sell their property because it's a record. Depending on how the State behaves as a believer for the right to be held hostage. From that perspective, I think they may need to be forgiven by 20% of the socially endangered groups.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1949	Next individual debate, distinguished Rada Boric. She's gone, she's losing her right. Next individual debate, distinguished representative Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1950	So we can talk about everything, we can talk about transparency, we can talk about an institutional framework related to this law, we can talk about the means where they come from, how much they are, how much they will finance, but the law on the restoration of Zagreb should have one fundamental task, which is to ensure social sensitivity when co-financed buildings. That is why it is problematic in this bill that those who are doing well can be fully financed by construction reconstruction, while those people who are poor are expected to have their only apartment or their only house they have financed by 20% means 20% of the figure that someone doesn't have. Especially considering that we live in a country where 53% of people living in households can't single out for unplanned expenditures, so these people assume they won't be able to even rebuild their own apartment or their own house. However, this bill enables art. 5th century 3. that those business operators who carry out their economic activity are completely resolved and fully financed by these construction reconstructions under the State Aid Act. So on the one hand, we have a situation where we're going to rebuild some of the Tedeschims with some of the dental walls, and on the other hand, we have poor people who're going to have to sell their apartment or house, or they're going to be placed on that house or apartment by the pawn's right of mortgage. This is a fundamentally unfair, socially insensitive measure that must change in our opinion. So that's what our proposal is to introduce, as a fellow property censors will be problematic for what we're not guilty of, but our proposal is at least to introduce income censorship and to be related to the first real estate that someone has to make possible, to completely to people who by this social criterion who cannot finance the restoration of their only real estate allow them to get rid of it. On boards, we asked the Secretary of State about the pawn's right, we received a very vague answer whether those who are unable to finance their reconstruction will be entitled or the entire building in which there are several apartments, if two people cannot co-finance that restoration whether the whole building will have a claim or mortgage, we have not received any concrete answer. So that's the situation we also think should be resolved. What we will put emphasis on is certainly this income censorship in our request, and the Workers' Front will advocate to define exactly what business entities they are to receive support and in what way. So, we don't want to get into a situation where tycoons are being renovated by a business building because there is an economic activity, while the poor have no ability to repair and this applies to construction reconstruction, not to the rebuilding of walls, parquets, etc., means building reconstruction of buildings does not have the possibility to be secured. So what's going to be our goal and what we're going to put an emphasis on is certainly that article 5. 3. which we consider unscheduled and which opens up the possibility that different tycoons can be helped, especially taking into account government measures that only a few months ago started aiding and paying for bookies that last year had over hundreds of thousands of kuna gains, which slowed down their economic activity.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1951	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1952	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President. Here is something I want to say about the proposal for a law on the restoration of buildings damaged by the earthquake in the City of Zagreb, Krapina-Zagorje County and Zagreb County. I think that all today's debates were good, regardless of some disagreements about what this law offers, and they were both political and I'm glad we didn't end up in the '45s as some wanted and yet the more important part that citizens expect us to talk about what's holding them back and what hurts them. Because the 22rd day is obvious which will be remembered, because only Zagreb, which is one of the metropolis in the EU, has experienced something that is not, which has not happened to Zagreb itself for over 140 years, but also to many in Europe and not to God to ever happen to anyone, but it has happened and it simply took a reaction as well as after any accident. We know what it's like to have a firehouse, to resuscitate what it's like to have a flood, to resuscitate it with earthquakes of great experiences, but we don't think that day was the best possible reaction, and that those who were supposed to react were reacting. Thank you to the Croatian army, firemen, police, all citizens, all those who helped to bring that day as soon as possible, let's say to bring an end in the sense that everyone can safely stay overnight and that this story can move on. Many who here today say what was needed and how it was supposed to be at that moment were not in those places, may have cared about other things, but the fact is that the efforts of the state, the city and all those who have to bear their own activity should not be satisfied. Because when something like this happens and 24,000 buildings get hurt, it's something that can't be solved in one or two days. When it falls on 1,000 chimneys that damage 100 cars and anything else that can damage structures, panels, roofs, etc., it can't be solved in a few days either. When it happens and closes the traffic of the entire center it is clear that it was not possible to solve it in a few days even though some think it may be easy to solve it in one day, in two days and that is the difference in the story which can be theory, and what can and knows practice. We see from this law that 18,000 buildings today are at least partially usable and that they can live with certain resolutions. That the problem is some 6,300 buildings that are unusable through several categories and about 1,000 such in the area of Krapina-Zagorje County and Zagrebačka. And that costs 42 billion. Many resented the time in which the law was passed, that it was too late, that it was not passed immediately after a month, that nothing was done, that the government simply left people hanging, that the City of Zagreb had done nothing, but there are others who think otherwise. I'm one of those, I don't live in this town, but I've lived in it for a long time, I live on an island, and I think those who should have reacted as best they knew and what they could. We all know when something happens to be smart after all, but at that point, there aren't many people who know what to do. I think the real reaction was for both the presidents of the state and the government and the mayors and the Croatian army to clean up first, to allow for the normal functioning of at least parts of the city, so that it could start with basic activities and a little bit of recovery. Taking off all those chimneys that fell is certainly not something someone can do. And that's why I'm sorry that many here are talking about building operations in a way that people are vultures, manipulators, those who will take advantage of the situation. Tens and tens of cranes were supposed to be brought somewhere to get rid of it. Many think it's that simple and that it's all solved in one day or by a click of fingers, it doesn't work that way, gentlemen, and this system needs all of us in the future because it's said here about 42 billion, it's not small values, it's two highways in general in Croatia, and it's not a story that's going to solve in a year. There's no building operation that can handle it in a year. Unfortunately, it is a short time for me to be able to speak more extensively about it, but the fact is that some have sent false messages and that today is a responsibility on all of us. Many say we will not vote for this law, no, there is a majority who will vote for it and a hologram to address the issue of earthquakes and earthquakes in Zagreb and Zagreb Countys.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1953	We have two replicas. The first is the honourable representative Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1954	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Boric, I agree with everything you said, I would just like to once again highlight this issue of speculators and speculation. I believe it's enough of both the brains and the time to find the final draft of the law how we're going to prevent people's speculators from taking away real estate for small money. Here, I think it's our job.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1955	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1956	Thank you very much. My colleague Milosevic, we've had experience of flooding, we hear from them this, and in some ways he criticises all of this knowing what was going on at the speed and the way they were working and what happened afterwards. And now we're listening to a lesson in how others should do it, not seeing what they've been doing. I'm sure we'll be much better off and that this law doesn't solve any of the buildings in the section now we're going to give it to that and that company, and now this builder is going to resuscitate it in all its parts, and it costs so much and so much. There are procedures, there are laws, there are tenders, there are responsible persons and there are now institutions that are established by this law. So it's clear how it's going to work, and they say who thinks it's all just gonna show time they don't know what it's all about.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1957	The next replica, the esteemed representative of Rada Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1958	So here's my colleague Boric. We have two Borics this time. I'm very sorry that in his speech, however we have a little minute, you used him in some way and recycled him. We were convinced by events that we were all aware of, and somewhere I don't know where you got the conclusion that someone would vote against this law, I don't think anyone said it out of opposition that way, but what we asked of you we didn't hear anything except literally someone half-literary text, you didn't say anything about what should be the content of this law, you said that everything inside was writing, so I'm not sure that all the mechanisms we asked about transparency or time and hodograms of renewal, I'm afraid I expected you to have a little more content in your speech.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1959	The answer to the honourable representative, Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1960	Thank you. My colleague, I didn't have a literary book, I listened to a gentleman who had it, and I think we're different in that. I've been talking about facts and what I think, given that we meet daily every problem at local level, that it's not as easy to manage certain situations as many do and as it is said here. We have heard many criticisms today, and it is simply my belief that many obviously when they criticise, are not ready to support such a bill, if they are, the question and the meaning of such is then criticism, not to single out what was good or has happened well. So, there will still be a lot of debates about this, I won't do too much today, I say, but it is clearly shown in the elections, HDZ won 5 of Zagreb's units, that the people recognized those who know and can work on the benefits of them, regardless of all those who convinced them completely. On the contrary. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1961	The next individual debate is the distinguished representative of Hrvoje Zekanovic. He's gone. He's losing his right. The next debate is individual representative Zeljko Sacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1962	There you go. Thank you. I won't be too long, actually, I'd like to express my satisfaction with my perception of this debate which was constructive, let's, in my opinion, go, absolutely already quite a quality proposal that we've had before us, and what we've heard in this 20th, 50th debate only improves and I ask the promoter that these smart proposals don't cost, they don't, they don't, we don't even hear, they don't pay off, but they ensure transparency, they provide social sensitivity, because from the epicenter from which I come to Markushevec right now we have a construction site of at least 12 homes of families who are almost, all of them have red, and that our hardworking, responsible, not wealthy people but responsible family people are raising loans or are doing it themselves. The minimum procedures for every house up there where we live, and there are more than 4 thousand smokes, it's your turn to fix it, each of us and I personally had minimal damage, 14 thousand kunas, just for concreteting the balcony and taking off 2 chimneys. And now it's not such a problem for me socially and economically, but for many and many, and many thousands of kunas, it's a big problem and this law has to make sure that those people who have already invested their savings, if they had savings, the question is whether they had, but if they went down to minus, they have to return it. So we support everything and, of course, don't forget that people want to go to their churches, to the sacral objects, pray, the day before Covid led to the closure of the churches, after which the cathedral collapsed, forgive us God, let's go fix the situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1963	Thank you. Next individual debate, distinguished representative Mario Kapulica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1964	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I would like to congratulate our MPs, who consist of less than a quarter of HS, who represented most of the day in this part that I see, more than 50% of the debates at hand about the restoration of the city of Zagreb and the surrounding area. I think it's certainly an indication that in the future we need to work more on the maximum representation of women in all state bodies, including HS. Our political and administrative system, therefore, not only politics, profession, the whole society is faced with a kind of test that will cover a period of 2, perhaps 3 mandates of this Assembly and I agree with those who have said that this is one of the laws, one of the most important laws, perhaps one of the most important laws that HS will pass in this term, although we are practically in the first week of its session. The quality and implementation of the law that we are about to pass will therefore be debated when we are no longer in these benches, and therefore it is good that the debate is broad, comprehensive, calls for transparency clearly articulated, and careful in making decisions, and this has also shown the debate, representatives have shown that they take care of all foreseeable situations that might arise in the implementation of this law and that they want to avoid, or to the least possible extent, any perceived problems that may arise in the coming years. This is good because Croatia and without our mistakes is a fertile ground for causing dissatisfaction, and I think the main objective of this law is that the people to whom this law applies at the end of this story are satisfied with what the Croatian state, HS, has done to show that they are not alone in these extreme and exceptional situations. I will not repeat myself, I would just like to highlight two things that I have not, perhaps missed, noticed that, firstly, I think that the restoration of Zagreb and the surrounding areas of the earthquake is an opportunity for the law, by this law that we are discussing, to allow the restoration of public space in accordance with the trends of green development, which includes opening of yard blocks and similar interventions, so the solutions that would encourage this and which would enable it. And secondly, when it comes to rebuilding family homes, first of all with those that are intended to be destroyed, I think it is necessary to make sure that the purpose of this law is to enable people to continue their way of life so far. This means that the renovated houses cannot look like APN apartments, that they must be adapted to this area and that they should consider in this law to allow for the overall design of houses including for suburban settlements and settlements outside Zagreb characteristic economic assistance facilities in order to finance only the functional part of the value provided for otherwise in this law. And in the end, it would end because we heard the comparison of a lot of these fears, we agreed more or less to take care of the different positions of the people affected by this situation, but there is no comparison of how we are going to turn someone's Stojadin into Mercedes. This is about that at the end of this process everyone will be in, the intensity is, in about the same situation as before the earthquake. That's the point, and we're not turning Stojadine into Mercedes, so we're putting new tires on Stoidadine, better shock absorbers, ABS, that's similar. He wouldn't have had another accident with extreme situations. [[Intruder: Time]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1965	Thank you. Next individual debate, distinguished representative Rade Simičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1966	Dear Vice President, colleagues and college MPs. Here you are, down in this House capital, and we're up there not seeing each other, and we don't hear from each other, so here's a chance for us to say something, too. Here, given all the debates that have been so far, I'm somehow worried about this defetism in the debates or I doubt we'll make it out of this elemental disaster as winners. We Croats when we're a complicated people then we can win any challenge and we believe we'll do it now. We recently had the Homeland War where the 5th Army of Europe was our opponent and we managed to come out as winners and create an independent state of Croatia. So even now, we're going to make all these damaged and ruined homes that are a place of residence even better so that our people can, they can enjoy both their home and their freedom. What I'd like to say is that this law should be superseded and I won't be happy if it is adopted with 76 votes. So, I ask the government if it is possible to respect all the quality and good proposals of any party and to have such a law come into another reading or to adopt just such a law where all the good that these thinking people here today are going to be. I also think that the HAZU should participate more in the media space, given that they are collected in one place and that whenever crises arise, then those most called should talk about it. So I think they could make some suggestions not only about the restoration but also about the direction of the development of the City of Zagreb and the whole, the whole of the Republic of Croatia. And lastly, I think it would be just as good to trust Croatian entrepreneurs and craftsmen as we can simply keep jobs, and so are our entrepreneurs and craftsmen with quality and good people to do excellent, excellent things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1967	Thank you. Next individual debate, distinguished representative Marijana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1968	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. At the beginning of this year, I express my sympathy with all those who, in a terrible earthquake that struck Zagreb in March this year, lost their roof over their heads, and the earthquake with the crown pandemic certainly affected the citizens of the City of Zagreb, but also Zagreb County and the Krapina-Zagorian County, who somehow lost that sense of basic security that we all need to function uninterruptedly. In this difficult situation, there was once again expression and solidarity of our fellow citizens, and a spotty reaction of all the emergency services from our firefighters, HV, civil protection, medical staff, numerous individuals, associations, fan groups that really helped all the victims and those who were the most vulnerable at that time. We all remember the earthquake scenes with the collapsed facades, the falling cathedral tower, damaged cars, barefoot and crying births at Peter's hospital who didn't know if their children were okay. In addition to the crown, which in itself caused fear and shock to the citizens, there was an earthquake that caused the loss of roof over the head, but also ground under the feet, and it was not one earthquake, because in 24 days Zagreb actually shook 1,000 earthquakes, 19 000 buildings were destroyed, 27 people were injured, and one young person unfortunately lost his life. And after reviewing nearly 25,000 buildings, the estimated damage has risen to the vehement 86 billion kunas that will not be so easy to secure because, with those EU grants and the loan from the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, it will certainly be necessary and will employ its own funds. The reconstruction will take years and it is difficult to assess how long it is now, but what we can all agree that this renewal must be thorough and professional and therefore it is logical that a special law is designed as it is a special situation. It is good that the government has accepted almost 100 remarks from professional associations and individuals and has announced its openness to constructive proposals which have also been made in this debate and which will also come from other organisations. This law must be fair, it must be enforceable, it must be transparent, it must respect the principle of solidarity and I agree that social criteria should be taken into account. It is therefore important that the voice of all is heard, especially the voice of those who have suffered in the earthquake, because they can certainly well draw attention to the important elements in order to get a good law that can provide an adequate answer to this emerging situation. It is also important to keep in mind that various speculators and murky hunters would not profit from the accidents of people who were severely injured in the earthquake. Houses, buildings, sacral, cultural facilities should be restored according to all standards, transparently, respecting the principles of green construction and we should do so together and responsibly. I will support this law in the first reading, and I believe that through the debate that is yet to come, and until the second reading, we will get a quality proposal that will really help all of our citizens who have suffered badly in the earthquake, but also to all those institutions that really have reunited with those objects they loved to live in, in which they loved to live, in which they loved to practice their faith, in which they loved to listen to concerts because it is our obligation, the obligation of all of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1969	We have one replica. Dear Representative Kruno Katičić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1970	Well, nothing, it's not just a replica, I'd just like to supplement thanks for this, just what my colleague Petyr said is very important and I think it's important to stress that in this law, obedient people who have been killed. The fact today, during the debate, less than once, pointed out that the very state was one of the few who came and organized and collected and helped all those people at the Student Centre, who are also in Markushevec, in the church in Vugrovec, organized who mobile teams and helped people meet the requirements and get the right to rent apartments, which was a lot of help in this entire system.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1971	Answer, dear representative Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1972	Thank you very much, Mr Katičić, for this supplement, and in fact I would like to thank you both and your team for the prompt reaction, because as State Secretary and you were personally engaged in the direct assistance of people who suffered severely during this earthquake, and I think that on this example, it has been able to organise state institutions in a very short time to make sure that the answers were rightly visible that we have the capacity in our state administration and that, with clear political will and clear provisions, we can be effective and we can respond to the demands of our citizens and help them in the right and best possible way.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1973	Thank you. Next individual debate, distinguished representative Davor Ivo Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1974	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A lot has been said by colleagues and colleagues, and this debate shows that at least in the first reading, there will be one broad support for this bill. I also think it is necessary to welcome the government's openness to accept the proposals that will come from these parliamentary benches, whether by members of the ruling majority or opposition. This proposal, in my opinion, is also balanced and realistic, a proposal made by the principles of justice, equality, I said this morning, so between the citizens and the City of Zagreb, but for example. and Zagreb County of course and Krapina-Zagorska according to the principle of solidarity, but also on the other hand also personal responsibilities. In our public, and in part it is reflected in this parliamentary debate we could see two positions on the extremes of this debate. On the one hand, on the left if you want a social democratic or even socialist one that highlights the role of the state. So there was a problem with the 20% that the individual owner should invest in rebuilding the building, it became in many debates partly disputed with the arguments we heard from that side. On the other hand, or at the other extreme, one liberal or neoliberal position, so from another extreme economic and political ideologies that emphasizes that the state should not invest at all in the restoration of private property, but that citizens who had to take care of their property should also ensure that, if it should be renewed, they should do so by their own means. The Government's proposal represents one environment, as well as Christian democracy is between socialism and liberal democracy, or liberalism is a pardon, so it is neither, but represents the social market economy, so market principles, but also the social principle so that this market does not turn against society and in order to protect especially those in need. So, on the one hand, the principle of solidarity is stressed, but on the other hand and personal responsibilities and in this context and this proposal that the central state is financing 60%, the regional self-government, so regional state 20, and the individual of the other 20%, where there is still room to consider the final proposal, I think that in the implementation of the principle of justice, a lot is said about social criteria, and it seems to me that the debate shows that a certain consensus has been reached, or at least that most of this House accepts the concept. Whether it will be through property criteria or income, in any case criteria that those who are financially in a better position may also finance in restoring their property and more than 20%, and those who are not in such opportunities will be, it will be somewhat less, perhaps in total what remains to the citizens will be 20%, and eventually this ratio will be 60:20 again. But in any case, I say this is a proposal that seems to me to be balanced because it does not accept any of these extreme positions in solving the role given to the state or individuals in the restoration already trying to find one balance in all of this, and therefore I believe that on Friday at this first reading, it will receive one broad support of this high home, and I hope that with the final draft of the law that will compose a series of proposals that are presented today in this debate, that it will also have some broader consensus on the final version of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1975	We have several replicas, the first respected representative of Dalia Oreskovic. Excuse me, MP Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1976	Okay, and the exchange of identities. She would only answer the thesis if it were a socialist extreme to ask for 20% of those who can't afford it. If it's extreme that such a social criterion is introduced as some normative, then we're in trouble. So it certainly can't be extreme. What's the criterion, so people who just can't finance their property are allowed to, that means stay in their house. What's extreme, and that's usually called the extreme center theory, you've settled well, we've got the right extreme, we've got the left, but... And it's called the extreme center is that it's considered normal for these people to get kicked out of the house because they don't have the money to rebuild themselves. [[Intruder: Time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1977	The reply to the replica, the esteemed counsel Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1978	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Peovic, so I was talking about a public debate, part of it and a debate in this assembly where in this beauty of ideological positions you have, of course, on one side the position that is on one extreme, the other on the one that is on the other and I have described what these positions are like. If you don't want to identify yourself or give up socialism, that's all I can do to encourage you when I look out of my personal position. At the very end of the line, Winston Churchill himself spoke to people when in their youth they wouldn't have hearts if they hadn't followed socialistic ideas, but if they were a little more mature, they wouldn't have the brains if they hadn't become more conservative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1979	Thank you. The next replica, the esteemed representative Tomaševic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1980	Okay, well, from your presentation, it seemed to me like you're giving up market principles because otherwise, I don't know what it would be like. 41st could justify because of that. 41. I hope that, which you support in this bill, regulates even if the highest price for reconstruction is determined, means there is no market, so it will be determined to avoid this rampage on the market right now and as far as labour prices and materials are concerned, and as far as project documentation is concerned, we fully support it because no one should be an earthquake profiter, the same as it shouldn't be a war profiteer or a corona profiter, and that's why the government and adopted a regulation on price regulation. And as for the extreme positions that someone on the left advocated 100% of the funding, I don't know who. Since in this public debate, in these comments you have received, you can see the comment of the platform We can, as I said, be 50% state, 35% local self-government, 15% private owners. What we're looking for now is that for private owners who are socially endangered they pay nothing. [[Intruder: Time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1981	The reply to the replica, the esteemed counsel Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1982	Thank you. Dear colleague, if the question is whether I support the neoliberal recipes, no, as a Christian Democrats, I am for the social market economy. Therefore, to basically have one, one market economy, but the state has the right to intervene, regulate to protect certain social values and general good. So that's if you want a taste of Christian democracy and I identify myself with such doctrine. And what you said about your personal responsibilities to me, it seems to me that whether it's going to be 0.5%, but I think the face and face are solidarity and personal responsibility. On the one hand, if we are all going to make an effort to meet those who have truly experienced one disaster, on the other hand, personal responsibility and return something to society, even if it is minimal, I think that element Personal responsibilities are also important. [[Intruder: Time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1983	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Troscott.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1984	Honorable Vice President of the Assembly, Your Honor, Mr. Stier. I thank you for this, all this philosophical explanation of the spectrum of market functioning. For example, I did not get such an impression during today's debates but was more debated that simply this concept proposed by the ruling is not sustainable. First of all, for reasons that 60% of the funds that should be financed by the state, so the state has secured 7.5%, so 6.6 billion kuna of 50. We have proved with very clear data, the bonds of the city of Zagreb, that local self-government will not be able to finance it, and you have seen the exposures that individuals who are burdened with the tasks, which are burdened with disasters, will simply not be able to finance it. So it's a question of the unsustainable financing of that model.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1985	The reply to the replica, the esteemed counsel Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1986	... Thank you, colleague, I think your question is precisely how you see that difference from those who are just afraid that the state could or could not find one state funding, want to ask whether the state should enter and accept such obligations and those who would like additional commitments. [[Specially enabled.]] In this regard, it seems to me that this bill, which may still have, of course, certain improvements, but that it has also sought to achieve a certain balance. I believe that the state will always find, especially when there is one good rating, when there is one responsible fiscal policy, when there is one strong or stronger position in Europe, which has also been shown at the EU Council session and the decision we will discuss tomorrow in this House of 22 billion. I think he has the opportunity to accept these obligations proposed in this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1987	The next replica is the distinguished representative Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1988	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Stier. I think you've well detected that this is about a law that is actually a golden environment between the different points of view that we've had today and that's an optimal solution. Of course, in Christian democracy, other than solidarity that is extremely important and on which this law is based, it is also important to mention the human dignity that is actually in the roots of both Christian democracy and modern Europe, as well as modern Croatia. People who suffered badly in the earthquake did not suffer by their own guilt, it is a fundamental disaster that happened, which has significantly affected the status of their human dignity, and it is up to us as Christian Democrats to offer a solution and help them.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1989	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1990	Thank you. Thank you, colleague. You are right, at the heart of Christian democracy, the democratic doctrine is the height of every human being, and it must be above any market principle. The market economy is the one that allows for the best possible way of achieving this growth and progress of society, but there are situations where the state has to regulate, when it has to intervene to protect the very dignity of every human person, especially those that are in the greatest need and in this context, it seems to me that this bill is also going.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1991	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Pero Ćosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1992	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS. Dear Representative of the Proposer, colleagues and colleagues. I would like to begin by thanking all the services, as well as the citizens, volunteers at the engagement in the recovery of the consequences of the earthquake in Zagreb and the surrounding area, and especially all the citizens for their responsibilities, which they have shown in the extremely difficult situation in which they have found themselves despite all these restrictive conditions and which they have had to abide by. The scales of this unfortunate event are best related to the damages caused by numerous facilities, from institutions to family homes, and how much harm this may best say the fact that 11.57 billion euros greater than what the entire Croatia could withdraw from the EU funds during this 7-year term. As the reconstruction, which will be financially demanding, the government of the Republic of Croatia is actively seeking funds for such a complex reconstruction. According to the proposed law, the funds for the construction reconstruction of family houses, business, residential and multi-purpose buildings will provide the Republic of Croatia in the state budget of 60%, and the city of Zagreb, Krapina-Zagorska County and Zagreb County of 20 per 20 per cent in their budgets, of course, for those facilities located in their territory and owners, i.e. co-owners of a property of 20%. I think it is extremely important to highlight this financial part of the reconstruction of Zagreb and the surrounding areas of the earthquake, whether it is financed, whether funding is provided through the repayment of loans either from the state budget or from the EU budget, the majority of the funds will be financed by the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. The MPs have been elected representatives of these citizens and it is our responsibility to vote a law that will guarantee that taxpayers' money is invested in the future, that taxpayers' money will be spent transparently, invested in the security of life. So we need to think carefully about what the vision of the future is for our metropolis and how to, how to return to all citizens of the Republic of Croatia of these invested billions in the future. There has been an extremely unfortunate event, and the damage must be resolved and there really is no debate, but so many billions must not be spent just to get back to the past. We need to think about modern infrastructure, about the quality way to rebuild, respect the rules of the profession, and ultimately, turn the crisis into an opportunity. Zagreb is not the first city to be restored after the earthquake, especially not the first city to or should pass urban reconstruction. Some knowledge exists, based on it we can plan future processes and changes. This is an opportunity for us to do our job as well as to pass a good law in the second reading, achieve consensus and create added value for the city because the reconstruction itself will last longer than our parliamentary mandates, the result we leave to the next generations, and I hope that one day they will be proud, proud of the city and what we have all done together for Zagreb. I point out this, in particular, because according to the rules of the Republic of Croatia, it is not responsible for the damage caused by natural disasters, and this bill goes from the basis of solidarity and protection of public interest, and it is a kind of aid to the owners of damaged and destroyed buildings in their restoration or housing. In the spirit of this solidarity, he would call for the management of this large investment business to be carried out in a large part of the materials of the domestic industry and for the work to be carried out by companies that employ our people, to employ citizens who fill that budget and who pay for the renovation. And finally, this devastating earthquake made us aware of the importance of respecting construction regulations, we knew that Zagreb was in a thorny area, and they often warned us about it, but obviously we didn't take enough action about it, and here's the history has been repeated and Zagreb had one big earthquake in 1880 when almost every building in the city was damaged in a strong tremor. I hope that by restoring and building earthquake-resistant or safer buildings, we will protect citizens from similar disasters in the future, we will find the right balance of the metropolis centre, both the tourist future and the protection of cultural heritage with the sustainable life of its inhabitants and the planning of the content that we want in the city, whether it is about scientific, educational, business or other activities. Now is the moment to design and build Zagreb as a European metropolis in 2030.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1993	Replica, the esteemed representative Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1994	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. You have said all well about this law, which is in the first reading, but you have forgotten to point out that a public consultation has been conducted in which a number of associations of Czech engineers, architects, builders, institutes, statisticians and all those individuals who have contributed to the making of this law, 389 observations have been made in public consultation of which a hundred or more partially accepted or accepted, or have learned from which important lessons have been learned in order to make the law as high as possible, as better, more constructive and operational as possible. I believe that all this debate that is being held today in the first reading will contribute to the specific, clear, unambiguous in the second reading of the law and will contribute to the improvement of the current text so that citizens of the City of Zagreb, Krapina-Zagorje County, as well as Zagreb County, will be satisfactorily satisfied in this difficult disaster that has happened to them.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1995	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1996	... Djakic on this issue. Of course, the promoter, or government, was to say that it was acceptable for all those issues that were important for this disaster to be addressed in an appropriate way in order to help all inhabitants of the city and, of course, the most endangered. What has been opened today, and this has opened up a debate on a complex reconstruction of the city and I think that something should be done on this issue if Zagreb from this must come up with a new vision, with one new content, not just a constructive reconstruction of family houses and institutions. Of course, all those who want to keep on holding on to it, but that one urban solution is allowed and one more complete and complex reconstruction of the city, that is my opinion.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1997	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Anka Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1998	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Cosic. You have touched one topic in your discussion, and the topic is building material. So, from some things when you get into trouble, you need to create an opportunity. One of the opportunities that could be, could be the construction material industry that should be able to develop, even more so would be the one with the green certificate or that everything that comes from the collapse would be some new construction product. We don't see it in the bill of this law, we don't see it in the bill of this law. It would be as good as the prime minister said, as the minister said, to listen to the topics and discussions of parliamentary deputies, if you are not listening to the opposition, it might be good to listen to you, ruling so that it is one of the provisions of the installation of a particular material that has a green certificate or that this is from an unfavourable opportunity for the new construction industry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u1999	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u2000	Thank you very much for the replica. Every major investment is an opportunity for industry, an opportunity for those involved in this for construction and everything else and in person when I talk about big investment in the railways, I always stress that this is an opportunity for the railway industry whether it's security devices, wagons, everything that's going on on the rails, so this part is one reconstruction that is certain that goes, which has a lot of money, means 11 billion euros, and of course it's good that these laws are being built, and I'm not going to say hidden support, but as such something that all countries do to help the domestic industry, and of course that industry has to prepare for it and to use these materials as much as possible. We really need to do this, it's good, because we all swear on the green and blue highway how to connect, and nothing on that we're doing, this is an opportunity for the construction industry and construction in Croatia. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u2001	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Dario Zurovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u2002	Respect for all MPs and MPs, Your Honor, I would like to say that today there was a nice one I can say how much I heard and constructively debated, we heard all the arguments, I honestly never thought they'd call us extreme but it's not a problem. As far as we're concerned, within the Fokus Party and myself as individuals here in the assembly, I find that primarily this model is not fair and not solid. What makes us think that? We consider it because when you force someone to take a certain amount of money out of their pocket to force them to finance someone's property, it just doesn't feel right. It's solidarity when I take it out of my pocket 10-20,000 kunas and decide to give it to someone who doesn't have one. Here's a living example, I helped a friend, a man had asbestos on the roof, I came, I helped him with the money, and of course we took that asbestos off the roof. It's called solidarity, when you, by your example, show it. But I also have to say that this kind of renovation will cost a lot in the long run. But if it weren't for me to just be smart right now and I'm talking about how something's wrong, how can it be different, okay, we all have our arguments, we have our positions, I can even say that in some ways I agree with Mrs. Bencic, I think I have a good last name. As for this very public procurement, there's a lot you could talk about for at least hours, and that should be modernised and made the whole process much more transparent. But let's say there's one of the two models that we think might be quite good. One model would be that we practically through HABOR give people credits without interest, where the state is solidarity, the state means co-financed that interest i.e. interest is zero. In such a model, the existing property serves you as a collateral, and by restoring it would certainly raise the value of real estate above the cost of reconstruction. Solidarity is, of course, as I said, that the citizens of the Republic of Croatia assume on themselves the financing of interest costs and that they allow a repayment period of up to 30 years with 2 starts at 6 months. Also, we need to see if there is a need for that, of course. Another model, for example, would be the establishment of a real estate company in which citizens could enter their properties and get a share of the proportional square of real estate. Which is why squares of real estate and the same because of a kind of solidarity. Such a company could be in charge of restoring favourable or commercial loans or even issuing bonds, given that they would have large assets that could guarantee payment. Also, if it is going to issue bonds, it could also be offered to citizens who could naturally and voluntarily show solidarity to invest in bonds if they choose and even sometimes have negative interest rates, and later have the same opportunity and forgive that debt if they want to. Such a society should also be given and allowed to raise additional floors on those facilities. For what? Then these floors can sell, of course they can earn something and thus reduce their own debt and, of course, to all citizens who are co-owners of their society. Of course, in both of these models one is potentially more risky but can be earned by another who is less risky but co-financed interest is of course decided by the owners themselves. And in the end, what is the right message that needs to be passed on to our citizens, we cannot simply favour irresponsibility. So if it's my real estate, I'm responsible for something like that. But on the other hand, I see that there has been a lot of quarrels with her you are against the restoration of the City of Zagreb, no, we are against irresponsibility, and on the other hand there are very many failures and in the Construction Act even in one law that defines conservative guidelines which could still be a little more flexible, especially if your apartment is not a monument of the first category, and you should resuscitate it, it should still be allowed. As far as state property is concerned, let public real estate restore them to the state, but it has no one against it, these are public buildings, to be invested in them, but private property is ultimately private property and should still have private responsibility on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u2003	We have two replicas. The first is the distinguished representative Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u2004	Dear Representative Zurovec, I am pleased that you agree on the issue of public procurement control, but I must say that in this great second part of you, I do not agree because your approach is an approach that would leave all of us living in the area of a damaged earthquake at the mercy of anyone who may have money and wants to give to help rebuild our apartments or no mercy, so they will buy them for a cheap price. I want to tell you Mr. Zurovec that I live in an earthquake area and that my neighbors and plumbers and beer producers and architects and Anita who works on Rebra and neighbor Ivek who works on elevators, we are different people, different economic and educational status, and so we want to stay. According to your vision, 90% of us should leave our homes because we wouldn't have enough merciful ones to let us rebuild our homes. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u2005	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u2006	So here I am living in a house where the masters, in which the builders, in which they are not builders, my late grandfather was a plumber and we always invested in our home to be as safe as possible and to be as firm as possible. I understand, of course, your position and that you may be concerned, but in this part, I think you may have missed the part that I said about the HABOR loan. So that's where the government co-finances part of the interest, so you borrow the money so you say for free and you rebuild your real estate. You understand what I'm saying. So that's what I'm looking at. I don't expect you to agree with me on everything and that's completely clear to me, but I think it's time we learned to take care of our own property, and on the other hand, if we take it from someone else's pocket to give someone else coercion, it's also wrong. But, well, I understand we can't agree on everything, we'll put arguments on the table, and we'll see what we can vote on.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u2007	Okay, next replica, the distinguished representative, Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u2008	So here's how we've seen it so vividly, which means one real one, so extreme. I have to ask you what, in what way would you pensioners who collect bottles to break the end eventually allow them to take HBOR's credit, that would be quite interesting to see. How would you solve social problems that are not enough to have the opportunity to have their own apartment? So, if those with their abilities hadn't fought for their own existence in your vision of the world, they would have been left for mercy and mercy without an apartment. It's a real, so extreme center, what I was talking about before. So philanthropy can't, secondly, mean philanthropy can't be a solution to social sensitivity. The definition of solidarity you gave cannot be the definition of solidarity Solidarity must be socially conditioned. [[Intruder: Time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u2009	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u2010	Well, let's agree to disagree. As far as this part is concerned, I may not have been precise. So HBOR's credit can be given to anyone. It means to me anyone who wants to be restored and whether it should be provided whether he's young, whether he's old, what kind of paypower he's in, it's not that he can have a delay on that payment. As for solidarity, here I am personally paying towards the Red Cross and the SOS Village, I do not force anyone to do it for me, nor do I want the state to prescribe it for me. So I'm paying for it because I feel like these kids need help, I'm paying for it because I see how many Red Cross employees are doing. Here I call everyone here, separate some of your salary, and then, of course, pay to those institutions or to someone who needs help. That's my opinion, that's my attitude. I understand that you disagree with me, but well, that's your attitude.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u2011	On behalf of the Club of Most Independent Lists, Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u2012	Thank you very much. The citizens of the City of Zagreb are waiting for this law. This is where solidarity was mentioned, and the constitution obliges that we are a social state, that we have an obligation to protect the weaker, the vulnerable, and that's what I was talking about in an individual debate about, means in a threat that is the most important, means the security that we have institutions, that is. In the event of an earthquake, including covida and all others, the HV was first placed alongside the rest of the fire department and medical staff. However, when we talk about this law, it is EUR 11 billion of estimated damages. We see that 60% will pay the state, 20 cities in the proposal, 20 will pay the local and regional self-government, and 20 will pay the residents. I will repeat my words again for these 2/3 RH which also have threats and which also have huge and similar problems. I recently said that people had skates in my area, they just say private property and they can't get rid of whatever the poor are, they're people with a number of families, they're out of business, they're in the Dalmatian Zagor area. According to this law, when we see it as very important, this exercise and surveillance. I'm going to mention another earthquake experience in Sinj at the end of the '80s. Back in '89, in the '90s, that's when the state's money paid for the citizens of Sinya for the great damages that occurred in the earthquake. Since it was the Homeland War, the funds were rescheduled for weapons, that money was taken as a loan to a company owned by the Tedesci family. For years they've been searching for the people of Sinj and Cetina, where is this money that was needed more than a cow? I have personally filed criminal charges against the DORH and I have spoken here in the assembly and for years I have asked where is the money million and 400 000 marks of the German then, now it would be around EUR 17 million, where is this money intended for the earthquake? No one knows. The problem is that because of the well-regulated market, mostly the public procurement that was mentioned, they do not create tycoons after this as they were created at the time when the money for the earthquake for the Cetin area disappeared. There are key problems. And let's not forget that it's a difficult situation and that the biggest elemental disaster in 2/3 of the Republic of Croatia is all empty from bad policies and absolutely if it's a solidarity then we have to talk about Dalmatia Zagora, people who live in very difficult conditions, who have no water supply, who literally emigrate, go away if they simply have no conditions in areas where they could live and live well, but these areas have not felt solidarity because of the bad policies that are being implemented in the last 20 years. These policies have evicted young people who are insolent, insensitive, who don't care about people, who don't care about young people, who only care about those who have party cards. That's why we have today, we're talking about rebuilding the centre of Zagreb, that needs to be restored, the triba help, the triba being solid. The Croatian state today has 6% of GDP from our people evicted who in the last few years have no countries in Europe, there is no greater inflow in the EU based on signs such as the Republic of Croatia. We have 2/3 of RH empty gentlemen of MPs and MPs, 2/3 of RH empty, it's the biggest elemental disaster, all of us walls will be restored, however, it's a poor country that has only territory, and there are no people today when any policy with economic growth is praised, and I repeat, about 20 billion kunas from foreign remittances from our young people. Then we say that one of our top priorities and solidarity is the return of these young people to these areas, and I believe firmly that we will be as solid as ever and that Zagreb and the rest of the buildings will be restored. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u2013	The next final debate on behalf of the IP, Smart and GLAS representative, Anka Mrak-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u2014	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues. A little over four months ago, the capital, the heart of a country's capital, was wounded. Remember the pictures they visited, not only Croatia but also the world. Remember everything that happened back then. It is a great responsibility for us sitting in this House and this House. What we were expecting for four months was the law, it was said that the law was going to be about a complete renewal, we really expected it to be a law on a complete renewal. That the law also speaks of urban reconstruction, urban recovery, urban transformation of the city center of Zagreb, in a way that turns one big problem into one opportunity. That the results of the earthquake and recovery behind the earthquake will be the improvement of the city center of Zagreb by taking care of urban identity, taking care of conservation guidelines, taking care of spatial elements, but giving a new expression and a new face and picture of the city center of Zagreb which should really be one European metropolis, not only for this century but for the future. This law isn't defined that way. This law is conceived in a way that we go into construction reconstruction, so we're going to rebuild construction, somewhere we're going to improve it where possible, and where it's not possible, we're not going to improve it. In addition, this law is not directly enforceable, this law will be implemented under a programme of measures to be adopted by the Government and where this Parliament will not have a single authority to know what measures will be in that programme. We entered this law into our first reading with three strangers. The first unknown, how many buildings in the city of Zagreb, this time I'm talking about the city of Zagreb because the area of these two counties knows how many public purposes, how many of them there are multiple purposes, how many are housing jobs, how many are public purposes, and how many are family houses. Another unknown how much it actually costs. We don't know that at this point, these are all estimates, we'll know when a detailed analysis is made and see what it is and the third unknowns how long it will take. One of the MPs said it would certainly take more than a session of this House. It'll take a lot longer, and we don't know how long it'll take. And that's where the danger goes. When at the moment it is said that 20 thousand citizens of the city of Zagreb have moved out of the centre. If his residents move out of the Centre, if it's re-appropriated to some other story, when the city loses its residents and the city center loses its residents, he loses his soul. It is our responsibility to all of us not to let it be our responsibility to allow the capital of one country to lose its soul, it will be the responsibility of all of us. We, as a first-reading club, will not support this law. We somehow expect that everything we have spoken and that we have pointed out that indeed Mr. Plenkovic and Minister Horvat are of word, but not in a way that once again they say that the opposition is constructive only when it suits them but that they are objective in this assessment. In law there are, you have at least 3 elements that can be improved. The first element of the program is that you prescribe some things by law, and you don't leave in the program measures, the second element, funding, which we talked so much about to propose several models and several ways because as I have 5 fingers in one hand, you have. And every case is a case for itself. What answer will you give to the man who maintained his property and who has a building that was maintained, and the neighboring property, his neighbor's chimney fell on his property and destroyed it. That we should ignore it? So each case is for itself and we need to give a few models and a few scenarios. But what you can also do without great effort can be done really, prescribed a clear procedure when it comes to multi-state buildings because what the law says is not good. And there's one, so maybe one very small thing, but I don't see any reason, and that would prove good will. Imagine if you had one provision saying that public procurement must be made as a green public procurement and in this way it would show what we think about climate change, what we think of the space we live in. But we can't let that the city center of Zagreb loses its soul. [[Intruder: Time.]] Losing people loses their souls.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u2015	Next final debate on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, the distinguished representative Vesna Nadj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u2016	Dear Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs. Today we discussed the Proposal for a Law on the restoration of buildings damaged in the area of the city of Zagreb, Krapina-Zagorje County and Zagreb County in the first reading. As the SDP Club, we have sought to improve this bill with constructive proposals, to point out the shortcomings or shortcomings in the law and to make proposals for improvement. We didn't want to show political muscles during the debate or be pathetic. We wanted to propose to our proposals yes, there is an opportunity to improve the bill. We have indicated that it is not good for implementing regulations or sublaws to regulate so many problems in the law itself, such as this programme measures rather than for the law to allow citizens to know how the law will be implemented, and not for the Minister of Resort or Government to regulate it by means of its acts. The law does not stimulate a sufficiently complete renewal, and for spatial, economic and social reasons, there is still no vision of the future identity of the City of Zagreb. We pointed out that there is a lack of social criteria in co-financing by citizens 20%, so we suggested that it be both income censorship and property censorship, in fact we already have some such efforts and social benefits, so we don't have to reveal hot water in such social criteria. We also pointed out that an unspecified provision on the Reconstruction Fund, in fact, the Reconstruction Fund cannot be established by a contract, we felt that it was illegal and that, or within the framework of the Resoring Ministry, an office for professional affairs or an institution as a special legal person with public powers should be established. We also pointed out that the mortgage provisions, i.e. the pawn law, are one equation with very many unknowns, especially if it is a property already burdened with a mortgage. And most importantly, in the end, we have pointed out that there is a need for large-scale supervision and transparent spending of such large funds and that in real time citizens can see how these funds are spent in order to avoid corruption. Here's so much from the SDP club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u2017	Thank you. The next final debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, the distinguished representative, Domagoj Ivan Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u2018	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. In conclusion, I would like to stress and reiterate once again that this is really a very complex, comprehensive law today, and I think that especially given the circumstances in which it is brought after the Homeland War, it is probably the most complex, most comprehensive and not the sense of form, the collection of political points, but the essence, and indeed, it is trying to solve the problems of our fellow citizens and their families after the earthquake. We will also agree that for the richest in Europe and for the most developed things that have happened in Croatia in the past months would be a huge, huge challenge not only financially but every other one, but I believe that we will all come from this problem to be an opportunity for Zagreb and not only for the centre of Zagreb. I think it should be pointed out that when we talk about this very vision of further development of the city, which in some ways this disaster is in a medium term and opportunity, we should talk about the entire City of Zagreb and all the border areas of Zagreb, not just about the very centre and in the extreme line of opportunities for the whole of Croatia in terms of economic recovery and recovery. I will repeat at least from my point of view three key points if we want it to be quick, successful and quality made, and this is first, very, very efficient and completely transparent city administration, the second strong partnership with the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the third partnership is fair, honest, transparent with our especially medium and small entrepreneurs and craftsmen of Zagreb, but also from all over Croatia. It will be exactly an opportunity in trouble with the economic as it is evident before us. And lastly, I want to say that I may not have actually expected such a quality, constructive and truly on the edge of a consensus debate, it is very nice, really very, very nice and affirmative that all of us in this assembly, sitting on the left, here in the middle or right in the focus of all of us are our fellow citizens, their families and all those who have died. And there were not only talks today about the earthquake but also about many other difficulties that have hit us in Zagreb and all of Croatia. Most often I think the words solidarity and social sensitivity used today and that's good. In the end, I would like to invite you all to support this bill, and those of you who decide not to support it in writing and to send proposals for this second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u2019	The next final debate on behalf of the Green-left bloc representative Tomislav Tomaševic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u2020	Well, here's to me, too, I have to admit, that I'm referring to a fellow Milosevic that I'm also glad that we seem to have had a rather constructive discussion and I think there's a lot of consensus, which even surprised me a little bit. There are a lot of things that were mentioned yesterday on the parent's board for spatial planning, today I see as positions of almost all clubs and about social criteria and about solving the debt rights, about insurance, about how we need lex specialis. Of course, there are several MPs who disagree with this, several MPs who feel that they should not finance from the budget the restoration of private facilities damaged in the earthquake, but there is generally great agreement on both the right and the left and the centre that we are going in some good direction. Now, if we're going to come all the way to a great direction, we're going to see it in another reading. I would still say that this 60-20-20 financial model is more or less on the trail of what was our political stance in the election campaign, and even then we talked about this 15% in our case now 20% of the private participation that should be according to social criteria, that was our position in the election campaign, that's our position today and from that perspective we think we should consider the promoter to move these 20% of the participations for socially endangered groups, and then this will also solve this problem that we're talking about in some way for the hostage right because we're going to avoid this situation to the poorest people, and that's like one of those arguments that they have valuable property in the lower city, so I can sell it. E won't be able to sell it if it sits on their mortgages, they won't be able to even borrow these poor people to get to, to pay that 20%, and they'll actually be in one debt slavery and we need to avoid it. So the issue of social justice around these 20% solves the problem of hostage law. On the other hand, what we need to avoid, and I agree with my colleagues, is after the apartmentisation in the Lower City which has advanced in the city centre after the generation that has also improved, there is no need to contribute to this yet, in a way that people have to sell their property and their apartments that will then be bought by the owners of apartments that will be placed on Airbnb, and then we will have even fewer people living in the center, and that is not good even from the perspective of tourism, let alone from the perspective of social justice, city life, dynamics, etc. So in that sense, we need to look at how to avoid, how to have a situation where all those who lived and in the city center before the earthquakes after this restoration also live there, not that they have to move out because they can't afford to rebuild. I have also said, in my own right, that it should be regulated better, it can't be a right from our perspective on the whole building, it will lead to a number of problems between co-owners of buildings because it will be difficult to resolve and then sell individual shares in the property or apartments if the mortgage is on the whole building. On the other hand, insurance, we also said that, despite the fact that we can't expect all people to have secured property from the earthquake because they didn't do it, because neither public institutions should even penalize those who did. And here we also hope that there will be improvements in the second version of the law. Independent surveillance of the transparency of public procurement about it was also spoken by a colleague from our club and I see that it is the same thing other MPs have repeated, so I hope there is some consensus there. The Institute for the Reconstruction of Zagreb, we continue to think that this is a better institutional framework than the Fund plus the Institute for Spatial Planning of Zagreb, which would be involved in programming the reconstruction of the historic core of the City of Zagreb. A colleague also mentioned something not directly related to the law, but it is a technical regulation, for me is still illogical level 2 and level 3 in the technical regulation regarding multi-state buildings that they will have 2 levels or 3 levels of resistance to earthquakes, that the only criterion that depends on how much these buildings were damaged in the earthquake. It seems absurd to me, and I would like to see it also if that part can be changed, and that part may be changed, or which reasons are at all, for such a technical regulation, which has been amended a week before the election. I also hope that we will have a synergy about energy efficiency because it will be cheaper, but we will see it in the programme of measures so that we do not only have the reconstruction of the City of Zagreb and the return to the original state rather than the development of a new town of Zagreb for the 21st standing. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u2021	And finally, on behalf of the motionary, State Secretary Zeljko Uhlir.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u2022	Thank you very much. Today after this first debate on the Law on the Reconstruction of Buildings damaged by an earthquake in the City of Zagreb and two counties can say that we can all be satisfied together, feel one satisfaction in a constructive debate, in a good way of discussing, in a good way to improve, to contribute to this legal solution that is truly unique in our country. And what this law characterises is the amount of damage and the amount of financial resources that will be spent which will exert maximum pressure on our country because cca 25,000 buildings that have suffered different, different this intensity, the intensity of the damage, of which 1,300 unusable on preliminary checks, temporarily unusable 4,800 and 4,900, and almost those with usable character 18.790. It's a huge number that puts great challenges for the whole country from every possible aspect. If we look at the capacity of our construction operation or all the participants in the construction by designers, contractors, supervisors, all these are huge capacities that they must cover by their professional work. Especially because these are specific recovery works after the earthquake of buildings built and built 100-year-olds who have never been designed or performed to withstand such dynamic burdens on citizens who were in these buildings at the time of the earthquake and experienced the shock of nature's influence on what man creates. The complexity of the law that should cover all of this and normably regulate it was that it took quite a while to get to this stage now to first reading because of the different views in general in the way of solving the situation in which the capital found itself with two neighbouring counties. And with the amount of such a special law that should be regulated, we have seen today that it is even more detailed, even better, with even more data. So it's not possible to make an ideal law, especially in a situation like this when the speed of action is expected. So this law regulates the distribution of funds, the measures' programmes, as a necessary tool to start this process because if we're going to work everything out to infinity, and the last one here in the Parliament will be satisfied, then we'll never be able to take a turn with the renewal. We'll start a fund. So, the fund, the redistribution of the funds, you saw how the law looked in the public debate, what it looks like now that it's in front of you. There is some news, we have already adopted from the public debate and there is no obstacle, what has been said here today by the government's most prominent representatives, by the Prime Minister, by the ministers, not to accept everything that has been constructively and today and what has been said in the public debate. Because the ultimate goal is for our citizens to address this situation, help the city of Zagreb and its citizens and its neighbouring counties, and for this reason this law will still experience changes until the second reading, which has been particularly apostrophe today, e.g. to develop issues of relatives, social criteria classes, elaborate details about the rights of hostages, which are mainly the things that have arisen in the public debate. So, a large part of the law that was presented and presented in the public debate, was not here troubled to this extent to see that something structurally wrong with it. So, the government was aware that this law would last and its adoption would last precisely because of this complexity from all aspects, and therefore all activities were parallel, so the government did not sit and wait until the law was passed, while the last article was drafted, but the activities were parallelly carried out, the insurance of funds, negotiations with the World Bank, contracts with the World Bank, the provision of additional favourable loans to rebuild public purpose buildings, preparation for the Solidarity Fund, as much as pressured the Government not to work fast enough, but it was done parallelly, all with the same resources, so not some new people from somewhere are doing these jobs. That's what the same resources were doing all the time. It is applied, we have already received indications of how much funds will be allocated to us from the Solidarity Fund, and will continue to work on providing additional funds and on helping our citizens in other forms that should not be written about this law. So are those two government decisions before this parliamentary debate, one to help replace condensation boilers, and the other to assist in emergency and necessary work on insurance, detention of protection and removal of dangerous elements in buildings. So, the importance of this law, except for the safety of citizens, is linked, among other things, to the appearance of our capital. Many European countries have, and its, its cities as units of local self-government, invested considerable resources to make their capitals look as good as possible, to be more interesting to tourists, to attract them with their specialities, and so on, our city, not only needs to rebuild these buildings because of citizens who live in them and those next to them, but also because our city looks interesting and interesting to citizens all over the world. So there are several factors that are achieved through this project to rebuild the city of Zagreb and neighbouring counties. Furthermore, the impact on the construction sector as an economic branch, as we are talking about a project whose financial weight corresponds to the construction of complete highways after the independence of the state or about 18 Peljega bridges. Our economy can run its New Deal through this project, and we need to be careful not to repeat the mistakes from before, and primarily here I mean the continuity of construction, so it would not be good if after the completion of this big project our construction was left on the wind of the market and that everything that our operatives would strengthen through these jobs, then suddenly stopped and ended, as it did with the highways. At the end of this first reading, I believe that, as many of us as there are here, we can jointly conclude that, with several elements that will be further discussed after this debate, the proposed law represents a solution to rebuilding the city after the earthquake that has occurred, but also to improve the situation in housing and the economy and that our citizens can trust in the institutions of the Government and the Parliament to take whatever they can to ensure that they have a fundamental issue of health and life protection. Thank you for today's debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u2023	Thank you. We have three replicas. The first is Honorable representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u2024	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, Mr. Uhlir, this isn't just about rebuilding buildings here, it's about restoring the spirit, the spirit of the city, the capital, and then we can take a picture of it to the whole state where he's been staying away from the spirit. He cloned the spirit after three elementary disasters, and I would dare say fourth, and the fourth is the city's power which is just... But it is up to all of us, including our fellow MPs and you in the executive power not to let him stay away from the spirit and give him the predisposition to rise up as a phoenix even better, even more beautiful, so more than you said, this should be an attractive city not only for us but for all tourists, and here I think it is clear what we should do. And finally, I hope that the second reading will produce a whole series of other and better-quality solutions in which we will also be able to constructively discuss and possibly invest amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u2025	The next replica is the esteemed representative Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u2026	Dear Secretary of State. You mentioned huge numbers that require huge capacities and a huge challenge. In all of this, I agree with you exactly what you said that after what you called the Parliament for the first time we saw the right debate, the constructive debate and the well-intentioned debate in which all speakers wanted to help this law. What did I answer for? These are the very last words you said along with this huge challenge, this is a huge opportunity, but also a stopper not only to get restored Zagreb and the surrounding area but also to invest all these billions of kunas in a construction operation, in a huge number of different crafts in all that will result in all the funds invested in the reconstruction of Zagreb ending in the hands of the businessmen who will be able to enlarge those assets. And I think this is a bill that deserves support and I have no doubt that in this position we will be more or less unanimous.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u2027	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Troscott.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u2028	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, Your Honor, Mr. Uhlir. I have two actually questions for you, you don't have to answer me today, but I'd like to point out once again the importance of funding. You have completed the construction college yourself, and I have now seen in your resume that you have completed the economy, the master's office, and I am very interested in whether you are truly aware that this project in this bill that you are providing financially unsustainable for the reason that the state has provided 7.5% of the funds, Zagreb is inequitable, and Croatian citizens cannot finance it? And under number two, given that you are from the construction profession, I would like to ask you whether a national institute could be established that would need to issue seismic certificates for all properties, especially of strategic importance for Croatia such as hospitals and schools so that it would not happen to us... from 2002.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u2029	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u2030	Thank you very much at the end of today's debate on these issues. I'd be happy to answer that. Among other things, two data from this opening part of the law often interfered in our debate today. 11 billion or 80 billion kunas are total damages, and 42 billion costs are foreseen by this law, so a slightly different picture is. And when it is still distributed and foreign sources of resources and participation of citizens and participations of everyone else are taken into account, we fall and come to a more realistic picture spoiled over the years. That's one thing. So, in half, not 80, but 40, we split those 40 again, attract resources, and we'll work to secure a new one. As far as the institute is concerned, it would be good for the Croatian state to have its own institute that would guarantee all laboratory tests and research in construction, but this is not the intention. So the seismic certificate will be done at the level of engineering work.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-28-0.u2031	Thank you. We've completely exhausted the debate with this. I'm closing the debate. We will continue tomorrow at 9:30 with a debate and a vote on the selection of members of the Defence Committee, and then the agenda item of the Report on the activities and results of the Croatian Presidency of the EU Council from 1 January 2020 to 30 June 2020. Good night. The session was interrupted at 9:13 p.m. Next presentation of the position on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Sovereigns, the distinguished representative Marko Milanović litre.
