ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201778	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament. So, I'd like to distract from the club of the Independent Lists attention on the fact that today's environmental policy is involved. So we here will also discuss the transfer of so-called commitments from the EU. Today, when the situation would require something completely different, quite another, and that would mean putting the environment policy in place, putting all available resources into operation and the moment in terms of the economic crisis and the moment in relation to all the unfulfilled obligations, however, this does not seem to be but to correct legal acts here, and silently financing any projects that are purely customeristic, type of waste management centre, which are all worth half a billion kuna, regardless of what they themselves cannot fulfil the tasks that we have, therefore, both in front of ourselves and in front of our future, and not to say and those we have taken. Therefore, I would draw public attention to the fact that Croatia is indeed guided in one way and in environmental protection policy, that all of these money available is not being put into operation, for example, by using all the potential of biodegradable waste that exists in Croatia, which could, by emergency procedures, be linked to the agricultural sector and improve the quality of the soil in our agricultural production, and thus turn one problem into one opportunity. It's about connecting, that's what doesn't seem to be here all the time.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201779	Okay, the break will, of course, be approved. Is anyone else picking up for a break? If not, we'll continue at 9:45. It's 9:00.35. [[CONTINUES AFTER 9:45 A.M.]] With us is the respected Minister of Environmental and Energy Protection Tomislav Coric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201781	Dear Mr. Jandrokovic, president of HS, respected MPs and representatives of HS. The final proposal for a Law implementing Regulation 2019/1021 on persistent organic pollutants is before you. The Stockholm Convention on Standing Organic Contaminants was adopted in 2001 in Stockholm, and it entered into force on 17 February 2004, the Republic of Croatia signed the Convention in May 2001, and at its meeting held on 30 November 2006, the HS adopted a decision declaring the Law on Confirmation of the Stockholm Convention on Standing Organic Contaminants. The Convention entered into force in relation to the Republic of Croatia on 30 April 2007. The existence of organic pollutants comprises an extremely large number of compounds which can be classified as pesticide groups, industrial chemicals and unintended or produced by-products. The existence of organic pollutants is resistant to photolytic, chemical or biological degradation. Having a low-soluble property in both water and high fat solubility, they accumulate substances in organisms. Although they are located in the environment at low concentrations, they are carried at high distances by water and air and are therefore widespread. At EU level, the main legal instrument for the implementation of the Stockholm Convention and the Protocol on Standing Organic Contaminants is the EU Regulation No. 850 of 2004 on permanent organic pollutants which entered into force on 20 May 2005 and which are directly applicable in all EU Member States. That Regulation prohibits, or restricts, the production, use and placing on the market of permanent organic pollutants listed in the Annexes of the Stockholm Convention and the Protocol and contains provisions on supplies and waste. The general and special exemption shall be limited to the minimum possible. The Regulation also contains provisions requiring and setting up a budget, respectively... for unintendedly produced permanent organic polluting substances. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] To some extent, the Regulation goes a step further than the international treaty itself in terms of ambition. There are certain differences, i.e. there are certain differences in the provisions of the Regulation and the Stockholm Convention itself, given that EU legislation is significantly more ambitious. The law on the implementation of permanent organic pollutants was adopted in 2013 and entered into force on 7 December 2013. Can we move on? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And the law was once amended and amended and the amendments and additions came into force on 30 May 2019. .../ You got it, you got it. The law was once amended and amended and the amendments and amendments entered into force on 30 May 2019. In its framework of supplementing and improving the legislative framework, the EU adopted a new Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 June 2019 on persistent organic pollutants. Only technical amendments to certain definitions and terms with a view to eliminating existing and unclear and enforceability of operational provisions have been implemented in the new Regulation. In addition, the European Chemicals Agency is defined as a body implementing the Regulation and specific tasks of the European Commission are delegated to that Agency for the purpose of its expertise and experience in implementing the general legislation on chemicals and international agreements on chemicals. The entry into force of the new Regulation No 850 of 2004 on persistent organic pollutants was put out of force. In order to bring Croatia's legislation into line with the acquis, the EU needs to amend the current legal framework and this law has been drawn up. The law defines the competent authorities and the tasks of the competent authorities for the implementation of Regulation 2019/1021 on permanent organic pollutants. It is further defined as an institution which performs professional tasks for state administration authorities. The competent authorities for the implementation of the Regulation shall be responsible for the health, agriculture, the economy, environmental protection and inspection. The ban on production, placing on the market and use of certain substances is defined. In addition, the management of the stock of the product as well as the permanent waste, as well as the treatment of waste containing or polluting any of the prohibited substances, is defined. The law also defines the reporting and management obligations of the environmental information system which includes, inter alia, information on compliance with the provision of defined obligations. The implementation of administrative and inspection supervision of the implementation of Regulation 2019/1021 is regulated and fines are prescribed for non-compliance with certain provisions of this law. In accordance with Article 206. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament propose the adoption of this law by emergency procedure, since it is a law that is in line with EU documents. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201782	We have four replicas. He's the first fellow Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201783	Thank you very much. The regulation on, the law on which it is regulated means our prevention of pollution of our environment, but ministers are not enough to rewrite the regulations. Here's just the ride, your decision to close certain dumps of the same sanitary conditions only from Vrgorec to Sinj has 120 km, we know how many pahs and soots are only coming out of the truck. That these are unreasonable decisions because simply the conditions for someone to be three times more expensive waste such as the Vorgorcans and that it is brought into the Cetitian province and that non-selective waste has both chemicals and other substances. It's about that. And as for the example, here is the lagoon along the Krka River, which literally comes to the national park will destroy our water, the Zrma problem and these problems are huge. So it is not enough to rewrite only the regulations of the care should in reality begin to solve problems regarding the pollution of our environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201784	Thank you. The answer is, well, there's no answer then he's a colleague of Dobrović's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201785	Thank you very much. Therefore, it was not easy for you to pronounce the name of a regulation of a permanent organic polluting substance, however, that name is guilty. I, in my time, was the last time this change was made to your associates in the hands of Professor Kaštelan Macan, who made a comment on the mistranslated terminology. So Croatia has its own language and distinguishes pollution from pollution. I'm telling you this perfectly well-intentioned. So it is a matter of language not now a matter of politics but a language and it is a pity that Croatia does not use its language as it should. So the polluting substances are not a proper translation for semilutants, the persistent organic pollutants is the English name of the regulation, that target group and what we do. is to force the language. [[Intruder: Done, time fellow Dobrović.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201786	You want an answer? Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201787	First of all, allow Mr. Dobrovic, Agent Dobrović, to thank him for this observation. Mr Dobrović, in the context of this Regulation, or its law, which is based on it, was firstly based on the opinion of the Ministry of Environment and Energy. I'm sorry we didn't have any of these remarks in mind and something earlier, so we'd think about them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201788	Here you go, pal Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201789	Dear Minister, here I have looked at the Ministry's pages, which is a list of these polluting substances, and I haven't found any oil derivatives there, although they could be put by some logic within this group, but they're not there, so I'd like to know what's going on with the specific situation, and I'd like to hear it, and it's about lagoons next to the Diva factory or the former Tvik in Knin, meaning that they're a constant source of pollution for the Krka River. I don't need to say what is the importance of the Krka River that is an ecological point in Croatia that has not been solved, but for 30 years it exists, perhaps 40. What did you do and what do you intend to do about it? So this is a tightly connected question, meaning lagoons, river Krka, factory Diva, or factory of the former Tvik, one ecological bomb. Here, go over there and see if you haven't, I've been there many times, I want a comment please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201790	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201791	Thank you very much, Mr. Zekanovic, for your comment on the matter. So, the Ministry of Environmental and Energy Protection in cooperation with the city of Knin, Mr. Jelic Mayor, of course the mayor, Mr. Spider, but also representatives, as well as representatives of the Tvik factory from the city of Knin, has been working for months to solve this problem. This solution goes primarily in the direction of the development of the lagoon-rehabilitation elaborate, whose pollution is involved. Finally, in phase two, of course, the process itself of resuscitating what is to come. I would like to stress earlier that, at the level of the local community, TVIK and the city of Knin, co-operation has been achieved on the connection of waste water from the TVIK factory to the collector or wastewater purifier of the city of Knin, so we are compared to The situation you have encountered is likely to have made significant, significant progress on this matter. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201792	Comrade Misic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201793	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister Ćorić, I will only ask you how many waste collection centres we have recovered, but what should be done according to some European norms and whether it is still working and whether it is a finished story or still in the process? Is it some sort of waste that's been thrown away for a hundred years somewhere and, and some centres that haven't been environmentally improved, whether it's over and whether it's being taken care of, I know it's not done enough about it, but I think that's slow progressing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201794	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201795	Thank you very much, Mr. Muscle, for your question. So the disposal of waste dumps is a permanent job and will actually last much longer than this process of closing the dumps in the Republic of Croatia. And what I want to point out is that, in this process of recovery, we have approached so that the rescheduling contests for the dump are continuously open. Yesterday you had a chance to notice in the media that one of the largest waste dumps in the Republic of Croatia Karepovac dump was successful, or its first stage successfully brought to an end and that it had obtained a useful permit, therefore the permit, that process takes place. However, it must not be given up, such dumps should be brought into that state that meets high environmental or ecological standards. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201796	Comrade Maras, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201797	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, it's nice to propose these laws in HS, here we just felt 2 earthquakes in the assembly, a month ago and one day there was an earthquake in the City of Zagreb. Unfortunately, as a citizen of this city, I see every day how, as Zagreb looks, so since you are in charge of energy, I am curious to know what the particular ministry of yours has made thousands of our citizens turn on the gas? It's something that's been bothering them a lot more than these contaminants and the substances that you've presented here because I think in a month, the ministry could have included and helped people get hot water and heating since they don't have that from that earthquake. So, that's, here's what I took advantage of the opportunity here that you're here today to tell me to see what the state can do because the city hasn't done too much, and unfortunately the state doesn't react that way either. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201798	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201799	Thank you very much, Mr. Maras, for your question, even though it is not directed, or it has nothing to do with the subject, or this legislative proposal. However, I will refer to him no matter what. So, yes, all of us in Zagreb a month ago experienced a terrible earthquake with huge consequences, and in this context, in several instances, I contacted Mr. Mazal and City Plinar at that first stage, and you know that the issue of gas inclusion is the basis of gas inclusion and hot water for a part of the citizens of the city center, or the question of security, given that this inclusion can only occur if the estimates of the statisticians and chimneys are issued after a thorough review of these facilities. In view of this fact, this review should also ultimately be carried out and these facilities will only be included when they are safe or when the use of gas for water heating needs is safe. As far as specifically the ministry, we will participate in the Law on the Reconstruction of the City of Zagreb. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201800	Thank you. Are the committee's reporters now going to take the floor? If not, then I open the debate, the first is the respected colleague, Slaven Dobrović, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201801	Thank you, well-respected speaker of the assembly, I welcome the minister with his associates and colleagues. So we have before us a proposal for a regulation law on that and on permanent organic polluting substances as it says in the documents. Now I've just drawn the minister's attention that it's a wrong name because the polluting substances as a term are not in line with the Croatian expertise that exists, so we're not some small country that's just developing its culture, its science, its profession, but it's been there for a long time and the damage is that. It's inadmissible actually not to use that language of ours properly. I think it's quite the task of the legislator, so it's polluted, it's a substance that is reliablely known to harm the environment and the living world. Contaminant, non-polluting matter. So, in my own time, I have already mentioned that it is a very good reference to this problem of the mistransmission of European documents where the concept of half-tant and contaminant or mutilated... translated in a confusing way and entered into Croatian documents since the entry and preparation for EU entry. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, I think we can fix that in a constant manner now. It's not a matter of political struggle, it's a matter of order. Yeah, here, but now you'd like to talk about environmental policy. Of course you were, that she was polluting, so I could look back on them a little bit. So these are substances, especially these organic persistant or persistent substances that are very difficult to experience any change in the environment, so they are resistant to biological-chemical, photochemical degradation and as such are very difficult to get into the circulation of substances in nature, which is a normal situation for standard to say highways and products of life where things break down and the substances are circulating, which is one product to another is a source or raw material. This is not the case with these substances, but they accumulate and create difficulties, and many of them have been deliberately produced, and some have occurred spontaneously or even not known about them until science, analysts to a sufficient extent, and until all research and association with the bad phenomena that we have seen in nature, but also in humans, is therefore linked to human health. And that is why these issues have been put on the table, for decades now, so there is a Stockholm document dealing with this problem and ratification, so many countries have agreed to pay special attention to the issue. And it's clear that the lists that were created there, there's a list of 1, list 2 where the priority dangerous substances are defined that they are audited because as science finds new connections, let's say glyphosate that someone insists is not harmful, the industry is very promoting it, and then the media are doing a job that is paid for by those who have money and interest then it takes a long time to create a critical mass and finds that such a single substance is not good for use, that it needs to be removed, and then it appears on these lists and then the measures are negotiated and it stops being a legal substance. So clearly that every little bit of that list is revised and that's fine. But let's talk about environmental policy what is it, what is it supposed to be? I have made a point here before the very point that unfortunately, the policy of environmental protection in Croatia comes down to this mere transfer of certain tasks to be done of course, which is why this law should be supported as such, but it is much less than the policy of environmental protection as it should be in a country today that is considering its future, planning any activities that are tasked with creating a whole. So it's not a list of individual tasks, so here's the deal, so now you can put it to the vote, the clutch, the law solved, right? Here's the minister's gone, he's done his job, he thought that part was politically done, it's another indicator of how far the environmental protection in Croatia is taken, the clutch is done, we move on, let's see what's further on the list. This is not all expensive and therefore important environmental degradation is happening in Croatia in many spheres because this is not even being monitored properly. If only we could look at what kind of sea monitoring is, what water bodies are like, soil quality etc., we would see that there can be much better done or that we are not responsible for future generations because remember we can all have no idea what title, but it will end and in 10, 20 years you are an old man, comes a new generation. So no one here is all-powerful who now enjoys what privileges we are tasked with taking care of the environment and taking care of the state of our nation. Environmental protection policy must create a whole in which human and environmental relations will be harmonised, given nature. I am that we draw all our resources from nature, some of our domestic ones we must import, and this relationship must be harmonised in a way that reduces the damage or emissions that occur in this process and that we are more rationally related to that resource. That would be the task of protecting the environment. Therefore, when we look at what is happening in our Croatia, when we see that at the end of the financial period of the Operational Programme Competitiveness and Cohesion, we have only three more years to spend this money, time flows tirelessly, money is not spent or some spend on completely wrong projects. I mentioned these unfortunate CGOs, so it's amazing that it's easier to build a CGO than one compost or compost that you'd like to call it, so composting biodegradable waste, which is drawn as a primary measure and in the waste management plan of the Republic of Croatia, and it would have to be insisted and the financing of this is allowed from these funds. I absolutely don't understand why it doesn't necessarily go into this because there's equipment for it with us, technology we know, so it's all in our hands and it's all basically a matter of short-term investments that can get a lot of results. However, this is not done, however, by putting quite a lot of obligations on it, you have to prove the units of local self-government to prove the feasibility that is insane in this case, and beware of the feasibility of a centre in Luka's distance prove it. Lučino's distance is the centre up to 300m, 400m above sea level where there is no road, no water, no electricity just along the border from BiH. To build a center 50 and a few kilometers away from Dubrovnik where the main source of waste is, so it's such a crazy idea that it's absurd in itself, but with us it keeps going on. Why? Because the clientelism that's going to feed in those half billion kunas and everything is connected to it is strong enough to keep pushing it. And the minister doesn't have the strength to go against it because it's, of course, connected to the hierarchy with the county with everything. As in Karlovac, so also their center, imagine that one city of Slunj, the first to be built there in relation to waste is a cargo station for waste. Less than 1,000 tonnes a year will be overloaded with an investment of 8 million kuna. How many recyclings, zero, zero, because when it mixes into one and piles, there's no recycling in that center. Therefore, politics should be something far more and so far in Croatia there is no environmental protection. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201802	We're going to a second debate, dear colleague Felak. Here you are, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201803	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, esteemed colleagues, today is the law, Proposal for a Law implementing EU Regulation 2019/1021 on persistent organic pollutants. Before I say a few words about the law itself, I will try to explain what are persistent organic pollutants, these are organic substances that remain permanently in the environment and accumulate in living things and pose a risk to health and the environment. They shall be transmitted by air, water or via migration species and shall be distributed across international borders and reached into regions where they have never been produced or used. Since no region can deal with the risks posed by these substances alone, risk management at international level is necessary. The existing organic pollutants at global level are regulated by the Stockholm Convention and the Protocol of.../incomprehensible/... These are legislation in the EU, these EU legislation is implemented by a Regulation on persistent organic pollutants. The purpose of this Regulation is to protect human health and the environment by example of specific control measures prohibiting or strictly restricting the production of placing on the market and the use of persistent organic pollutants, the release into the environment of persistent organic pollutants resulting from by-products of industrial processes is to the minimum extent possible, guaranteeing the safe management of the stocks of permanent organic pollutants to which the restriction applies and ensuring treatment is not acceptable to the environment of waste consisting of or polluted organic pollutants. Thus, this law defines the competent authorities and the tasks of those already mentioned in the EU Regulation, further defines the reporting obligations for the administrative and control of the implementation of the regulation, and prescribes fines for non-compliance with certain provisions of this law. A few sentences were also said here whether this is the most subtle translation, the translation of this English name will be said, as the minister said and the profession, I can even agree with my colleague Dobrović that as many Croatian words as possible should be used, even though I saw that some representatives in the SDP assembly did not sit well, but if he had a proper word in Croatian that we could use I do not see any reason not to use it. Similarly, the application and implementation of the EU Directives are not just something that we transpose EU legislation into our legislation but something good, something that if we apply and comply with these directives and respect our laws, because the directives are also an integral part of our laws, the key word is the application of all this in practice. And there, in much part, I agree with the debate and Mr Dobrovic and everyone who thus argues that we should reconcile means living that everyday life with environmental protection requirements. And I think that we have seen in many other things that I do not now link them with the existing crisis in the health system, but surely that very soon and already comes to us for the collection and over-pollution of the environment, which then reflects on the life of all residents, all of them, but not only Croatia, because we cannot solve these problems on our own, but they must be solved globally. So it's good to say just like these directives that, if he said there's going to be a new earthquake for me to cut short then a few more words just to say it means people's health and environmental protection have to be the first thing, and that's exactly the kind of legislation that gives us the basis for us to do something like that. In the end, however, it all comes down to environmental protection and health care and social awareness. You can write excellent laws, excellent regulations, but someone needs to implement them, and we have to appeal to the consciousness of people to make the environment as polluted as possible. Here, I am a forest profession, and I am now and at the time of this crisis, I am moving a lot in nature, in the forest, and I see that in the last year to two days pollution, pollution of forest habitats again on a large scale, concrete or simpler is becoming more and more trash in the forest, along the road, in drain canals, simply I can't figure it out today when all households have waste storage tanks, waste sorting out, when each, on every few streets, there's a green island in our cities and smaller places, is it just so hard to sort out this garbage and store it in the proper bin or the appropriate container, and that way we don't contribute to environmental pollution, and I say, unfortunately, for the last year to two days, there's exactly more plastics happening to us right in the woods, and not to say what we see in the seas, which we see in general in the waters. So he would once again appeal to all those who can, who can do it repressively, but first of all, to the consciousness of people not to do it, but to put the garbage where, where it's supposed to be. In any case, in any case, environmental protection issues, the problem of implementing the EU regulation, but also our own legislation is something that will not be solved overnight, but I expect that we will all, together as a society, education children from kindergartens through schools, to be educated and to be as polluted as possible by the environment at an adult age. I hope that we will achieve this as a society soon and the HDZ Club will support this legislative proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201804	Let's move on. He should now speak to Hrvoje Zekanovic on behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns' Club of Representatives, here he comes, and then he will get his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201805	The Honorable President, the Honorable Minister, and no longer a minister, has gone, well okay, colleagues and colleagues. So there's one point that's extremely attached to this law. The minister just responded, but he did not respond in the way that we would like to hear the citizens of Knin. So, in the heart of Knin, there is a factory DIV, or former TVIK, in the heart of Knin. With that factory according to the Oresnica River, there are lagoons with some kind of lube, some kind of organic contaminants, meaning on the basis of oil derivatives, which has been there for decades and decades, and apparently, I wouldn't want to insinuate there, if we had a new pollution, but that's something to check, whether it's new or not. Whenever the river Krka waterway rises, these pollutions mean oil and oil derivatives they start polluting the river Krka. The Krka River is, therefore, home to the town of Sibenik and the town of Drniš, or a dozen municipalities and cities, directly or indirectly from the Krka River. Not to mention the importance of the Krka River as a national park. Tourist importance, environmental importance, it's all about your ministry. It can't happen that every year several times a year when the water is slightly larger, when it rains a little more to water from those lagoons, that unclean dirty water enters the Krka River and pollutes Krka. And what we have, every year the Knin and the Sibenik firefighters put on those eco dams, resuscitate it, and spend budget money. Every year we have the same story. Someone noticed, the oil started swimming, the firemen came, dams were created, and the story was over. Let's do it once and for all. What's the problem, I really don't know. So, I've been there several times, I tried to lay it out like that, but that's your job. Here, I tell you, now as an agent in HS right from that county, go to the field today, send an environmental inspection, nature protection, water law inspection, today, here today, go and finally solve the problem. So it's no problem to find out if there's a pipe that leads there somewhere, and it's polluting it. If not, then find the money to make those lagoons empty, clean, and that's all gone. Why isn't that done? So I wouldn't want you to come back in a week or a month to propose some law in HS and I'm telling this same story without you doing anything again. This thing is easy to solve, you need to find some financial resources, okay the crisis is, it's always a crisis, but find them and set them up. But first you find you come up there to a new pollution continuously from somewhere, I wouldn't even sunbathe here where it might come from, logically, or that pollution is old in those lagoons and constantly stands. If the old one is empty, clean, buried, and the problem is solved. There's going to be a slightly larger ecological disaster. We need it, and it happens periodically every few decades, a flood of some kind, a little more rain. And then this debate in HS will be recorded. Well, then someone's gonna file a criminal report. Then someone will file a criminal charges against all those responsible. And the most responsible is the Ministry of Environmental and Nature Protection, most responsible. So, there's going to be an ecological disaster, it's really not a joke, go there, it looks catastrophic. So it's located by the river Krka 100 meters of lake, a lake of 5,000 square squares or 10,000 squares, a hectare of maybe, a lot of oil, a lagoon full of oil or some kind of derivatives, I don't know what it is that's even hard to tell me what it's about. So, you've heard, this may be, this speech will be evidence on, tomorrow and in court. The Ministry of Environmental Protection, Nature, means energy is also responsible. You're responsible. Today call environmental inspections, water law inspections on the ground, solve the problem, not just send, but solve the problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201806	Let's move on, now it's SDP's Club of Representatives, dear colleague Michael Zmajlovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201807	Thank you very much, Mr. President HS, colleagues and colleagues. This proposed law harmonizes Croatian legislation with the EU Regulation on persistent organic pollutants which took effect on 15 July 2019 and is, in fact, binding and directly applicable in all Member States. The purpose of this Regulation is to protect human health and the environment by applying specific control measures prohibiting and strictly restricting the production, placing on the market and use of persistent organic pollutants, the release into the environment of persistent organic pollutants resulting from by-products of industrial processes and being reduced to the minimum possible measure. These persistent organic pollutants are organic substances that remain permanently in the environment, accumulate in living things and pose a risk to our health and the environment. So it's about substances that have toxic properties, they're resistant to decomposition, they're bioaccumulated through the food grid, and they're harmful to human health and the environment, and they're prone to far-reaching and cross-border atmospheric transmission and storage. Therefore, the adoption of this regulation, but also this proposal for a law ensuring its implementation in Croatia, should be welcomed. What I think is particularly important to emphasise is that Croatia needs to continue its efforts to implement the Stockholm Convention, and this Regulation is actually based on one such convention in order to detect all existing problems in sectors related to its implementation in time, to monitor the implementation of activities related to the use and release of these substances into the environment, and in particular to ensure that waste and product is destroyed or delayed in the environment in an acceptable manner. Furthermore, it is necessary to ensure public information on a broad scale in order to increase the level of caution and understanding of the public for reasons of limitations and bans and public awareness of the dangers posed by organic polluting substances to the health of the present and future generations. For these reasons, I can say in front of the SDP club that we will support this proposal with all these abovementioned remarks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201808	He will now speak for his respected counterpart Davor Vlaovic on behalf of the HSS and Democrats' Club of Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201809	The esteemed president of HS, colleagues and colleagues, the esteemed secretary of state with a co-worker. Here, on behalf of the HSS Club and Democrats, a few words about the proposed law, and we believe that this act is certainly needed in the legal regulation of the Republic of Croatia in the sense that we have the basis and tool for protecting the environment and preventing the introduction of pollutants into the environment and in order to preserve nature, biodiversity and create a prerequisite for economic development in green policies, which is also EU policy. Yesterday we celebrated Planet Earth Day, an international day that warned all of us that Earth is the only planet we have, the only home and that no activity can endanger the future of planet life on Earth because of generations to come, but also because of all of us. And surely this law goes in the direction of that, but here I want to highlight a few of the problems we face daily in terms of nature protection, waste management and human environmental impact. I will give a few examples, here is the freshest debate these days about the dump site of Piškornica where local chief Švegovic asked for a professional measurement of the amount of delayed municipal waste, to make analyses that are species, how they are delayed and what an impact on the environment is. He came across resistance in the county, resistance from founders and from the administration of Piškornica, and then in agreement with the State Geodetic Administration made that picture of the situation, the authorised company made it and now it was even pressured not to give these materials to the public, not to give it to the order to Chief Svegovic, which is why we are immediately asking why it is so, to whom the truth bothers, why the public must not know what is being put off on that dump in that tape, how much has been delayed and what impact on the environment. And I would like to remind you that last year, Commissioner Schvegovic made along with the authorised institutions an analysis of the average waters in the surrounding waters and an increased concentration of heavy metals was found. And nothing, no one answered, nothing was done to resolve the situation and to prevent further pollution of a plumber near that dump. And it's not the only example. A similar example is in Brod-Posavina County, Davor Municipality, a waste dump that should have been temporarily removed while all wild dumps are being recovered and until a regional waste management centre is built near Nova Gradiška in Shagulja. He had a license of 115,000 tonnes, that amount was exceeded, permits were requested to expand capacity, and only three kilometres from that dump is a waterbender, a water supplying water supplying the population from Nova Kapela to Okucan over 60,000 inhabitants. And there were a series of protests by the people of Davor Municipality and there were even extraordinary elections because of it, but the current government is not responding. I have repeatedly asked from this pay phone, who has allowed capacity expansion, is allowed to delay there because residents suspect that there is not only municipal waste but also other types of waste and perhaps even dangerous, no one has given professional analysis of what is with... Waters and here, a few days ago there was a fire at that dump and thank you to the DVD Davor and Orubica who successfully extinguished it but what were the gases that caused that fire going, in which direction, whether there was an impact on the health of the population around, no word. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So we cannot be irresponsible to our country, our planet, our environment, our inhabitants. Here, I would also point out that still the city of Slavonski Brod and residents breathed polluted air and the other day were data that over 30 micrograms of PM 2.5 and PM 10 particles were rigid in the air although the traffic was reduced, although the weather was warmer, was no longer on solid fuel, apparently still that part of the pollution came from the cross-save refinery, from the Bosnian Ship and apparently that this government had not solved it and it was promised that through the gasification of the plant it would solve some of that pollution and here's an opportunity to ask what was going to happen, because the former president of the state said that it was agreed, that within 3 to 6 months. It's been over for over a year and a half. And because of the inhabitants of Slavonski Brod, we are looking for urgent answers and urgent action and here he would warn of an incident that took place on Saturday in the Sava River from the wastewater treatment collectors, the black mass had been drained for almost an hour, obviously mud, the explanation from the Slavonski Brod water line was that there had been a technical malfunction on the plant and that there had been a spill of some of that content in the Sava River but it lasted almost an hour, where they were responsible for not being able to stop it immediately and the fishermen who fished there said that after that, for hours more fish had not gone on the hook, saying that there had been a fatigue or damage to the biodiversity itself in the Sava River. Why is that happening and why is that? And in parallel with that, I'm sorry that the minister left, I have to say that the municipalities of Gornja Vrba and Klakar are also connected to the collection system that was built seven, eight years ago and it hasn't yet been connected and it hasn't worked. So it didn't work because of the disputed waterway ship and the public administration port Slavonski Brod because the crossing station in the port area and cannot be agreed on in which way it will be put into operation and whose property it will be and who will pay for that million and a half or two, how much it cost to build it. And everything was built with taxpayers' money, residents of these municipalities and the town of Slavonski Brod, and now because of political crackdowns, the sewerage is still not available today for these two municipalities, for these three settlements is not connected to the purifier and is not in office. That's how you spend taxpayers' money, that's how you spend money. I'm surprised that no control came and that they didn't ask us to return that money because it wasn't put into operation after a number of years and meetings, promises, were kept, the minister replied that he had given instructions to the water and the port how to solve it, but there is no solution. The people suffer, suffer the system, we turn out to be insecure towards the contractor, towards investors and towards those of whom we have withdrawn, and these are Croatian waters or eu funds for the construction of sewers and purifiers. That way, we can't manage space, so we can't be part of green policies, we can see that the European Commission is talking about green trade, the need to reroute the economy to green economies, to agriculture, to organic production, and what we're doing here yesterday, and I'm going to say again, part of the organic producers that have raised years of plantation, we know that they come in generation after 5, 7 or in nuts and 12 years, 10 years, which, depending on the variety, reduce payments, i.e. direct payments, although the measures are almost 35, 7 and 14%, respectively, in the coffin. This is not how organic agriculture is developed, so there is no room for food to be produced in the Republic of Croatia and here is today the big interview between Secretary of State Majdak on agriculture and agriculture issues, where we will lack both pig meat and fruit and vegetables, so I ask Mr. Secretary of State, ma'am. Minister, what have you been doing for four years? How many hectares of state agricultural land have been leased or concessioned this 4 years? 10 ha, shame. What have you done to reduce imports of hell is increased production in the Republic of Croatia? Nothing. We see that imports grow, that domestic producers give up production, or when the possibility is opened, to go to trade chains with their products, then offer the manufacturer a shopping chain 50 lp for one head of salad. So I'm asking you if you can produce it, can we produce it, is that competition, is that a market economy? And at the same time, the price of salad for the final buyer is £5.6 per head. It's not once, it's two, it's ten times more. If we want to produce food in the Republic of Croatia, if we want a healthy and clean environment then we must change ourselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201810	Thank you. We're going to an individual debate now, dear colleague Bulj, come on in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201811	Honored representatives of the Croatian government. Here are the citizens who are looking will know this problem, basically the environment, yesterday was the Day of Planets, the environment and the conservation of the environment is because we have the only planet that is very important and, of course, when we're talking in the environment, that they can accept what the regulation says, to protect ourselves from pollution of any kind and especially about pesticides and herbicides and about the problem of various wonders, CO2. However, in the Republic of Croatia, all of these regulations, which are strictly under orders by the Croatian government, proposes to the Croatian Parliament, are not essentially what should be implemented. I mentioned at the beginning the problem, here's an example of the transportation of waste i.e. wastes from Vrgorec to Sinj, 120 km with old trucks that are on the diesel where there is unselected waste where there is safe pesticide in the leaky truck, of course old trucks, while while the minister has threatened traffic and made a decision that 120 km is transported by highway from Vrgorec to Sinj from the same municipal conditions of the dump in Vrgorec and Sinj and of course it is prevented. The local administration is absolutely silent, the head of the city, Mayor Šipic said that it will be resolved important that he postpones the waste there, absolutely no one cares that 120km from Vrgorac to Sinj highways old trucks where CO2, soots all of what is stated in this law simply goes into the air and threatens the course and traffic. I even brought here a bag of junk that fell off the road, which I picked up behind that truck from Vrgorec to Sinj. And those bad projects. Bad recovery mostly by water when I talk about water as a key resource, water like that. Along the Krka River, lagoons along the Tvika present Diva are catastrophic. With this we are famous, to meet everyone, I am here even Donia once water in the bottle, as it seems, that water that is from these lagoons it is a lube, fuel, oil, entering the river, from the river comes literally to the National Park of Krk, and we know what water means in that karst area. It's similar to Zrmanja, they were granted huge money, then Mladneo was in the environmental fund, where not the money ended, nothing was recovered on Zrmanja and still the mule enters the river and continues this area ecologically endangered, contaminated. These are beautiful landscapes and water, it's about water. Which is why that part of the application isn't solved except for the fact that during the Youth money, it's huge, it's just a question of where the money is, the money was, who they ended up in, who knows. We have Biljane's lower disposal of industrial waste even the European Court ruled it would have to pay the Croatian state, they complained something and I brought it here. And these harmful things affect our resources a lot, our environment. Not to mention chemicals. I'm even suggesting that you don't use certain agricultural chemicals containing Monsant's glyphosate products that are this harmful it's the cidocor people will be easier to know and where they are, in which they end up, whether they're recovering the best quality or not, it's questionable. It probably ends up in mixed municipal waste transported from Vrgorec to Sinj or on islands from one to the other and thus polluting the environment much more than applying this problem to reality. So we also have harmful waste disposal projects like the Mariščina Waste Management Centre and now they want on Lečevica exactly where the water is, where the municipal waste will be deposited. Therefore, the environment is important, yesterday was the Day of Planets I mentioned, the harmful projects mainly in karst must be stopped, the water must be put into the Constitution as a basic human right to make laws of what Slovenia has done, the Law on the Protection of Breaks and the Law on Rivers from Sources to mouths, and I mainly repeat in karst areas because it is also a source of drinking water. It's drinking water, it's a 21st century key resource, it's not fossil fuels. It's water. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201812	Let's move on. No, I'm sorry. We have a replica. Here you go, dear Mrssic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201813	Col. Bulj, as the ministry handles things, is visible on Plobest workers, here are the first solutions, first rejections, people who lacked only 2 days to those famous 5 years of work in Plobest, they won't get compensation. There's an example that it's been 10 days, a couple of months, that's all we've been warning the Ministry that it's not working, and now it's happening in Neretva that people can't get compensation for two days, and they've been working at Plobest for 10, 20 and more years. This is the way the Ministry of Labour does this, the Ministry of Environmental Protection is doing and this is an example to the citizens of how HDZ treats them.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201814	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201815	Yes, we have proposed to the representatives of the government and the government, the entire opposition to this five-year period since '91. Or '90s. I can't remember taking the whole period. So people worked inside and got asbestos, and there's no time limits on any system or state planning. Simply people were working on the same, in the same factory, the factory didn't respond, in this case Plobest, and we have a similar case on the issue of Salonite in Vranjic where the number of people did not exercise their rights, and they are not guilty of having asbestos. I therefore expect that this injustice will be rectified urgently and that the tribune will be pointed out, and in the Government is primarily this ministry, the Ministry of Labour to resolve this injustice, cry out, huge injustice and cry out to the sky of these sick workers and their families.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201816	We're going to another debate now. Dear colleague Miro Totgergeli, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201817	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear fellow State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues, we have before us a proposal for a Law on the Implementation of a Regulation on permanent organic pollutants. And from these discussions so far, especially from the club debates, it can be concluded that almost all clubs support the adoption of this law. The law goes according to an emergency procedure, but I would even say that it was a law that was sort of regular in this debate because so far, most of the time, in the time of the coronary crisis, we had to deal with the laws that were necessary to successfully overcome the coronary crisis. However, this law, like those laws we've had these days in the process, deals with people's health. We, from all these discussions, see that in the first place in this difficult situation we put health and the lives of our citizens and then the solving of all other problems, of course, the existential problems that are important for the functioning of these difficult times, and this law that comes in some way, by regular procedure, helps us to take care of the health of our citizens. The regulation itself, the EU is binding and therefore, when already adopted, since last year, all provisions of the regulation are in force. The regulation itself has not changed something big and significant, but it has gone towards improvement in relation to the previous regulation and thus it has proved in time to be still working and repairable, in this Regulation it has been clarified and improved and, of course, the lists of substances to which special care should be taken, of course, audited during the time as they have been, as they have come to know that they need to be put on the list. The law itself, therefore, in this context, is therefore not any copying of the European regulation, but rather, it defines the bodies within the Republic of Croatia that are in charge of implementing all the provisions of the Regulation. And what is even more important, for those who do not want to comply with the regulation, and thus endangering the lives and health of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, this legal solution also prescribes criminal provisions for this. There's been a lot of debate actually here about waste management in the Republic of Croatia, and a lot less about this law itself. Of course, in the Republic of Croatia, we've been dealing with waste management for many years now, and I can't agree with those colleagues who say there's nothing wrong. We've made significant and important shifts over the past 10 years and more. Of course, there is also a need for very good cooperation, from local, regional to national authorities, and in some parts it works well, and in some places the chain is sometimes scheduled, and then we have problems in certain locations, or local areas. However, the very consciousness of our citizens about waste disposal is growing from day to day and I am convinced that we are on the right path, that we will get to that stage when actually that waste that we have to lay down permanently because we can't use it for anything else will come to a minimum, I can already see it at home, when we start to separate waste, then there's at least that waste that's being thrown away, and the most there is that waste that should go into some new recycling or something new, that has some new purpose. So, I think that the pessimistic thesis that has been said about the waste, it's not like they're standing out for another debate, because it's been here, said the current minister or former ministers, it's obvious that some who object most, have had the opportunity to participate in the management of waste management, but they haven't shown too much, so now they're complaining to the current one who's doing a pretty good job of doing it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201818	Let's move on. Now it's time for a respected colleague, yeah, we've got replicas, 5, first mate Maras, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201819	Thank you very much, Mr. Totgergeli. You said this was the turn because we were dealing with other topics that are now more important in view of the crises that are taking place and that are expecting us. I don't agree with you that we've dealt with all the issues that are urgent, for example, we see that the situation with the credit debt of citizens and businesses has not been resolved or solved, or there is some urgency, here, the Prime Minister and his advisor say we should think about the profits of banks and the functionality and work of banks, so that is, that is, one of the things that unfortunately we haven't solved. On the other hand, we haven't even solved the release of parafiscal charges, so the Croatian Chamber of Commerce continues to exist on the coat of arms of Croatian entrepreneurs and HDZ stands firmly behind the HGK and we haven't solved it. So there are a lot of things that we haven't solved and deserve to be on HS before and procedures in HS, but there are laws, but these laws that we're discussing here today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201820	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201821	Comrade Maras, it is not necessary that we agree on everything, however, the government went with the package in March, went with a package of measures in April, will go with a package of measures in May and just the perception of citizens in the Republic of Croatia says that and, that the government, and then we here in the Parliament, that we have guessed what our citizens need and how we are headed in this crisis, and I think where we should, right there, intervene, and that was the most important thing to take care of our citizens at first, to get that feeling that they will not be out of work, and that's where the state has jumped to the maximum, and this is very good at the moment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201822	Second replica, fellow Misic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201823	Thank you, President of the Parliament. Dear fellow Members, all of these regulations and laws are under EU regulations and EU laws which we adapt to. Of course, I'd say we didn't exactly do everything we needed in this part of it. I don't think that's supposed to be the problem we've created, and we should have been far more efficient and better in that part. Knowing that recycling and the environment should be taken into account, of course we came out of that system of communism and the former Yugoslavia we didn't have such laws, we didn't have such habits and culture, and that's one thing that goes very slowly. Far away, we should have done more, and I'll say that later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201824	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201825	So I can agree with you that things are going slower than we'd like them to go, but I think that the perception of the public, the awareness of our citizens about the separation of waste, is that I think that you first looked back on it, day after day, and this year I think that we are reacting differently than we were two years ago or a year ago. So that consciousness, and of course all of us together, are responsible for building this awareness with our citizens as much as possible so that the separation of this waste will go as well as possible, and therefore that whole process makes more sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201826	Third replica of his colleague Vlaovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201827	Thank you. My colleague, you said that citizens have become more aware of the need to take care of waste and that they have increased awareness of the citizens, I agree with you and welcome it, but it turns out that citizens are often more aware than those who should manage the waste disposal site and rightly question the founder of the Piškornica dump, which is being delayed there, what amounts are being postponed and how I manage it. So they showed their suspicion through the need to professionally measure what is the height of that column of municipal waste, which is delayed there. The state geodetics administration and the authorized company have now done so and is now preventing these data from being made public. Who's he protecting? Someone's junk is a business, a thief, and the citizens are rightly afraid for their health, for their drinking water, and for the clean environment around them. These are the topics we're opening, not to criticize, but just so the public knows what's going on.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201828	There's no answer. Then we're going to the 4th Replic, Comrade Bull. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201829	Thank you very much. You said that this law is acceptable, this is an EU regulation, the regulation is okay as a regulation, but what is in reality? In reality it is pollution, in reality I speak in reality at this moment absolutely and very little or nothing is done about the conservation of the environment but also the imposition of harmful projects. And this is the Ministry of Environment, which should be the environmental protector, which is essentially a threat to the environment, so citizens have to be organised to stop harmful projects like Lečevica, such as the senseless waste transport of 120km from Vrgorec to Sinj or from other places, in an insane way closed dumps without any criteria. Therefore, waste disposal, environmental conservation, CO2 gases or soot or pahs should simply be talked about and passed by laws, but the problem of application is, we are in the application of disaster. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201830	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201831	It is true that the regulation, as you say, is the same, but today we are not actually discussing the regulation because it is already binding in itself for all EU members, we are actually just discussing the law that we are correcting exactly what you are saying so that application can come to terms. Therefore, we also need this law to manage in the field of persistent organic pollutants to implement everything that the regulation prescribes, and it is necessary to prescribe which bodies in the Republic of Croatia are tasked with controlling, issuing penalties, which are the bodies responsible for keeping records of statistics, etc. So that's what we're correcting, or this law we're passing, and that's when we step up that application, and that application becomes more and more productive in our space. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201832	Now it's my friend Prelec's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201833	Thank you for your esteemed president. A colleague of Croatia has done a lot with the classification of waste, but I would say, primarily thanks to cities and municipalities, as well as local utility companies that have built recycling yards, green islands, put more buckets in front of the house and that's good. However, the fact that the state would have to do more to make me say disciplined a part of the irresponsible citizens. I'd say most citizens, maybe 90% are aware that they're using both the recycling yard and the green islands, but 10% don't use them. The local community doesn't have enough mechanisms and strength to punish them. I think a simple punishment is necessary for citizens to discipline them and to behave consciously. Here we are looking in the city of Zagreb, we have green islands that are not green islands, but a dump. With me in my community we have green islands in little, little places but people are still irresponsible and there we need to make a legal opportunity to punish them to be conscious and responsible.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201834	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201835	Thank you, Mr. President. I agree with you that in parts of local self-government that have been done very much, however, as local self-government works better somewhere, somewhere worse, and in many local environments we have problems precisely because local self-government has fallen asleep or has not done everything quite like some others that are more advanced. But I can agree with you that it takes more and more of our citizens to punish, even though for this start when we're going more seriously into separation then we should have gone educationally and I think it's good and that first we go in a way to explain everything, to encourage them, to teach them, and then if there's just those who don't want to stick to it and apply them, then we should also punish them.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201836	Now we're going to a new debate, dear colleague Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201837	Thank you very much. Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs. When we talk about EU directives, especially in terms of environmental protection, given that the EU intends to be a leader on this issue at global level, it is normal for Croatia to have to and apply, I think it is good to apply these practices and, on the other hand, to define how we will apply them in the area of Croatia, although unfortunately in many situations we are not at EU level, but we are also lagging significantly behind in the classification of waste and when we use waste and raw materials that we are putting off, which are defacto not junk but raw material, we are turning them into garbage, mixing waste and ultimately returning these raw materials to the Republic of Croatia is at an extremely low level. That's why I think we should step up these efforts, and that's why I'm going to support and support all those laws that go in that sense, so I'm going to support this one. What, as well as colleagues from other parties, can be seen that unfortunately in the Republic of Croatia environmental protection and those topics far from the start of interest and the Croatian government, unfortunately and society, the most talk about when we have situations like we have now, for example, Mr. Preleco's remark that we do not have green islands in Zagreb, but classic garbage dumps and at the end of the city at the moment we see on all sides of the mini waste dumps that have been very badly resuscitated and that in the city of Zagreb, we are very dissatisfied, that I am not talking to the dispute and no reaction on the transport of construction material after the earthquake of 22.3 this year because we have had a situation where the defacto 3 weeks the whole city has been swamped, only in the last 10 days something more intense to drive waste or construction waste that shows that we do not have a real reaction to waste management, we have a real or a practical situation with, with an executive body that you should be able to do so much in the city, because you can’t be able to do so much in the city, because you can’t, because you can’t do it, because you can’t do anything, because you can’t, because you know, because you can’t do anything, because you can’t, because you can’t, because you can’t, because you can’t, because you can’t, because you can’t do, you can’t do, because you can’t do, you know, you know, because you know, because you know, because you know, because you can’t, because you can’t, you know, you know, you know, you can’t, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you can’t, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know We saw, today there was a new minor earthquake, someone might joke that nature punishes us because we have a city government that doesn't really care about the environment and on the other hand that it might be some kind of signal that we should change things in the City of Zagreb. I agree with nature, and I ask her to stop doing it and that we will change Bandic very quickly, that there is no need for new earthquakes to continue to warn us this way. So, what I would like to say here is that I expect from the Ministry of Environmental and Energy to get a little more involved, not only on these topics that I said but also on the topic of involving our fellow citizens on the gas network. So today the minister here said one thing that is unimaginable to me. So, he's just saying that when all the procedures are made, when everything is brought together, the citizens will be joined. Well, that could take months. Please adjust the procedures, please make certain concrete actions because at this point we have thousands and thousands of our citizens in the City of Zagreb who are not connected to gas, who do not have hot water or heating, thank God the weather is now warmer, but have no warm water for more than a month. And it's amazing that the Ministry of Energy has no communication, nor is it involved in a process where tens of thousands of our citizens are affected by this, with this phenomenon, and nothing is solved. Here, take care of it. This is what I ask of you as a representative of the citizens of the City of Zagreb and as one who is in the interest of the state being finally involved in the resolution of the result of the earthquake on 22.3.2020. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201838	We don't have a replica, so let's go to the next individual debate, dear colleague Misic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201839	Thank you, President of the Assembly, dear colleagues and colleagues. When we talk about the environment and the waste that happens in the Croatian state, we'll be back before 30. And let's remember what they looked like, what garbage dumps looked like in our cities, so I'll also mention my city of Vinkovci where I live, where the dump was miles away, one 300 meters from the hospital, practically downtown today when we look. That's the kind of time it's been. True, we needed it here for 30 years. to just adapt to how much that waste is to try to resuscitate and try to stick to the rules. The EU is a major resource for waste management, waste dumps, purifiers, sewerage through villages, a lot of money coming from the EU, as we know both grantovnica and everything else that the EU encourages to develop. In our heads and today, but not to say earlier, it never stood, we could have taken a bag, thrown everywhere we were at the same time, not to say down at sea that they were throwing garbage at the sea, that they were throwing cars, that they were throwing tires and stuff that this people in these 50-70s. He didn't learn culture. Today we may be, we may be free to say, we've reached one level where we do some things, but I'm not personally satisfied, I'm not satisfied that we're making a problem out of everything we touch. I can't believe it took us so many years to make green islands, to build recycling yards, to change garbage cans, to spin them a little more often, to delay them more, to actually drive them, not to bury them, so here's Zagreb, not to say what it looks like, but it's all slightly improved. Looking at Vienna, we see that they have a recycling yard, they have recycling, processing in the center. These are European cities. We have not yet achieved it, we have even some of our companies that produce some things, I watched TV, a man offers to separate the trash, but in Croatia it seems difficult to sell. It's one problem of the culture of citizens, culture and government, we keep making laws but these laws don't apply until the end. These are all regulations, it is a European regulation, European laws. Here, in Slavonski Brod, we watched, here for years polluting Slavonski Brod from the refinery. That was the problem, of course, our country reacted, but how many years should it take to solve it all, so that the gas would probably join us. We also had Karepovac in Split, who is trying to get rid of and get rid of but then the population complains that it stinks because it is impossible to solve it differently... In that, probably the experts did it the way they were supposed to do it, but for 50 years, they were throwing themselves away, they were all silent. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Interestingly, now that it's solved, we're in trouble again. We must be such a nation, such a people, and when we go to do something, there's always a problem, it takes us years to put together garters, to sort out all the basic things that we should do and whatever it is we have opponents or associations that are protesting against this or that. It's hard in a society like this to set up all the laws and comply with the laws. As a people, we must, as well as the MPs from these benches themselves, speak what we should, the truth about what is happening in society. That's why the problem is when every local community has its own policy, one of them is done, the other isn't. Here we are in the Vinkovci 20 years ago, making a sewer cleaner. That's what every city should have today. I don't see why not every city does. Whether people who work in local communities or municipalities are unemployed who don't do their job and who don't do what they need to do, but in the end, they're not guilty. Of course they're guilty. Anyone who has a certain law and what needs to be done should do. Here we have the crown, so we've seen that we've put these things in a good place for now, I hope that if the measures go down, that we won't get into a bigger problem, but the people are as much as we have to say, respect these measures, the government has made good relations, listened to the profession, and you see that we have success. So we have to listen to the profession everywhere and we get involved in everything that we don't know or know. And that's the problem and it's a clear thing that we all need here to either support or challenge something. I'm not happy with this until the end, but still, the shift we made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201840	Thank you. Comrade Felak, here's your replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201841	Dear fellow Misic, I agree with your debate, but as a complement to the debate, I would like to point out that you have been well noticed that conditions have been created for all units of local self-government, that waste classification is done, that this waste is being driven away, that it means people have a chance to put waste away, that they should not throw it in nature, forests, in fields and where all of us are, but unfortunately, in recent months, we have witnessed it, that is what is usually escalated at this spring time when people start with some work, that part of the trash is still being driven to that inappropriate surface. Do you agree that in such situations, though, the repression should be greater and that greater powers should be given to both the communal directors and those who should worry about it and that the whole punishment procedure should be much faster and more effective?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201842	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201843	Thank you. My colleague, I agree completely, the sentences should be more drastic, certainly, and should be punished. Someone can't take the bag and throw it in one canal and anywhere. Let's go back 30 years, especially you at sea, me when I was coming, so I saw how much trash was in the parking lot, where the bus stops, not to mention on the beaches. I agree, but all the companies that import today do the white technique or... They pay for recycling, so every machine, here's a machine that comes in or a refrigerator is paid somewhere around 150 kn for recycling, and we need to know that. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So there's money, paid, we just need to know how to schedule it, who to let do it, now that's the question that we could all discuss in the Assembly, but it's the time, I think we've still promoted, not the one that I'd agree with and said I'm satisfied, and I'm still certainly punishing those who break those problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201844	Let's go to the last debate, dear fellow Bull, come on in. Is that final on behalf of the club, yes, yes, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201845	Thank you. Representative governments, respected citizens. Croatia adopts laws and regulations, prescribes them on a daily basis, unfortunately, in real life, you are aware, that it refers to the Ministry of the Environment and all, agencies, funds that should protect the environment, which is the state of the environment, and you would not agree that Croatia is giving too much EU, Croatia half a billion euros per year in EU memberships, such that at this time all EU solidarity with the EU's crown crisis was not exactly high-level towards large countries, if it is distributed, it will go to a lot of large countries, follow no matter what we are chairing the EU, you will see how much it will receive the funds of Hungary's example, no matter what the prime minister paints with all of his EU friends, see, look, you will see the attitude towards the population by how much funds for the coronary crisis, you will see. Therefore, the Croatian people get nothing out of it, the Croatian people only get, these government orders and regulations and directives that we prescribe and in reality it's chaos, bad projects, waste management is catastrophic, in order to show some effects, Minister Coric has shut down that. abolished 28 dumps at random, illogically transporting 100, 200 km of waste by highway jeopardising traffic, vehicle tea, old diesel trucks that are not adapted, di is transported where there are also these chemicals, pesticides, opening substances which on the road leaks and di transport waste e.g. in Sinj, next to Cetina, of course there'll be another. Three times more expensive waste Vrgorcanin, and Cetinska Krajina is filled with waste and, of course, I am sorry that it was not more loudly announced by my colleague, who puts the waste away at the disposal of Mojanka Ivan Šipic, he left the meeting three or four months ago and said everything will be settled with the mayors of Sinja absolutely. Not that it hasn't been solved, but they're still trying to dump the garbage in the trucks, but they won't put it down. Both because of Vrgorcan and Sinjan, and because of Bracan, and because of Sibenik, and because of Kninjan, who suffer bad policies towards the environment. And bad policies are so visible that only the lagoons in China when you look along the Krka River in the centre of China by the factory of the present Diva, that it is simply a national park, not only are the waters threatened but the Krka National Park is threatened, but it is much more important to appoint a person as director of the Krka National Park who has, which has been said to us when you play the cards, you've noticed something, you've got me in Dalmatia, so we say, she's got two HNS party cards from where the assistant and HDZ are from. And although we have much more professional and quality people who are even more professional and quality and have the status of defender of Croatia, he appointed such a person, as Duic, president of HDZ, ordered him to this Sibenik-Knin County, so does the man. It's not an environmental concern. You can't project Lečevica here's a laughing colleague from HDZ knows I've hit on Dujic's boss down there, the local sheriff. The regional Sibenik-Knin County. That way, the environment can't work. Harmful projects and bad waste management will cost us long-term. The example of Mariščina is visible that people have the consequences of the waste management centre, we have no compost, we have no waste disposal, we have absolutely nothing, we can call for this, but can't trap it by heart after Mariščina to someone in Lečevica who is connected in the heart of Zagor, connected with all the springs of water in our junk, it can't happen that it's right there that they're pushing a persistent waste management center, we have 10 directors, deputies, let millions invest, nothing works there, so we have to turn to waste management like on the island of Krk, which is Professor Slaven Dobrović, Professor Rusic, this project that is now being implemented is already 70% of waste being taken away and is being earned on waste. We must stop harmful projects for the sake of the future, preserve our environment, and mostly water, lead to the Constitution as a basic human right, the Law on the Protection of Break and the Law on the Protection of Rivers from source to mouth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201846	And finally, on behalf of the promoter, respectable Secretary of State Ivo Milatić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201847	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. I thank all of you for the debate on this law regarding the regulation that we transpose into Croatian legislation. At the very beginning there was a theme about language and expression, the fact is that the word pollution was used in 2013 and simply continued to be used as such. We can discuss whether pollution and pollution is, let's say a stronger term than pollution, but let's leave it for some other time when we're going to change this bill, so we need to think carefully about how much changing that expression would imply changing various sublaws and other legal acts so that we don't create a bigger job than we do in the truth. As for this very subject of the law and what you and Mr. Dobrović emphasized about certain things that are happening in agriculture, the fact is that more and more is being taken into account about this eye itself and the problem of using this protective means, the disposal of waste packaging and the fact that in Croatia every year we have more and more environmental producers going to contribute to the fact that less and less and less of these potential threats occur in our environment, and we are all aware that only organic production and forsaking is actually the best answer to this law because by creating a second opportunity that does not create troubles and achieve our theme. As for Diva and what Mr. Zekanovic insisted on giving an answer, here, while the debate lasted, I managed to get some information from the Croatian Waters. A public tender is under way for the construction of a sanaci programme conducted by Croatian waters. The design of the programme under the agreement is financed in the same proportion of Croatian water, County of Sibenik-Kninska, town of Knin and the factory Div itself. The creation of a recovery programme will know the total amount of the recovery itself, the total amount of the recovery itself, will absolutely come to the rescue, and it will have to be used for this very certain by the EU funds through the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund, because it is a fact that these, that this operation, will be significant. What Mr. Zekanovic mentioned was that there was no point in spending the firemen's resources now, I think the fact is that for years we have to keep under control in such a way that it reacts if God doesn't give rise to some pollution and stop it immediately, and in fact this is also a topic for Zrmanja what you were saying. The same way clearly needs to be solved because the problem simply will not go away, it needs to be removed. As for this debate between Mr. Vlaovic and this product manufacturer for the refinery in the Bosnian Ship, the fact is that this little one is now let's say this one goes slower than we hoped for regardless of what the state does but does a private company. But as far as I have information, the rescheduling works have started, the equipment has been purchased, all the necessary permits have already been passed quite recently, just enrolling in the ZK cartridges because the property had to be changed because it was previously owned, now it has come into the other. We certainly have promises that the project is going and that it will be over soon. True God, I can't give a specific term here right now, but it certainly isn't such a situation that we can't be optimistic that it will go very quickly. As for the subject of waste transportation, the fact is that all these huge dumps need to be reduced to some rational number, and as far as it seems to us that this is now too much of the way to drive this waste, it is necessary for these dumps to be reduced. I remember some times that weren't so long ago, where we had to literally put people's containers in front of the house to learn to put their waste in containers at all, without charge, it took, say, in my community it took 10 and more years without charge, just to get people to learn to dump the waste. I remember a lot of dumps, say, I'm from a middle Dalmatian island and I couldn't believe we took dozens of car wrecks out of the island, so all over the country, we can't say that nothing was done about the waste. A lot of such actions have been done, lots of environments have been cleaned up, big progress has been made, and what you said doesn't make sense to remove 28 dumps, we absolutely think it makes sense. There you might agree with you that then you should consider that this whole transport is, as clean as possible, that it may be in new LNG trucks, maybe on hydrogen tomorrow, to be renewable, that means that this whole waste transportation story doesn't create any new waste, but it is, believe me, much easier to organise than closing waste, closing waste, and transferring to waste management centres is a much bigger job and more demanding and I have to do it here, I have my colleagues who are more serious about waste in the ministry, I am still in this other area, this is also not clear to me how Mr. Representative Dobrović is constantly talking about the CGOs, and in fact he was the one who was all these CGOs and defined and started it. As for Mr. Mrsic's debate on the subject of Plobest, I can only say that it does not say that the ministry is doing anything, that it is a disaster, that the ministry has passed the law, solved the problem as best it could through that law. The fact that, I suppose, as always with any law of someone who is unhappy, I hope that it will be found for that solution, but the fact is that the law was passed here, that at last that part of the problem could be solved. They could've done that before, so they didn't. This administration did it. As for the gas connection in the city of Zagreb, which Mr. Maras is a little surprised that the minister said that all services should do their job in order to make the connection happen. I'd ask Mr. Maras, and what if the ministry were now going to force some kind of force to do it on, to go through procedures and not all kinds of controls and, God forbid, after setting up such an installation someone dies. Well, then it would be what you forced. I mean, it's not a gas setup that's harmless. So that's exactly where the procedure is known, and unfortunately it'll probably take some time, but it's all got to be done, atheists, chimneys, everything that's supposed to be, it's got to be. The problem is that these buildings are old, derusive, which are simply so problematic. Anyway, I thank you for the debate and, well, I'm glad that the vast majority has actually declared that this law will support and on that behalf I thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201848	I thank the Secretary of State. ... It's a replica. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The first is Honorable Representative Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201849	The Honorable Chairman. Well, I'd like to ask the Ministry's representative. Did he seek the consent of residents living near the Shop Mountain where nuclear waste is planned to be deposited from Krškoga? I also want to know if he was interested in what the people across the border in BiH who also live, what they think about it, and if they are not asked about the residents who live there, whether they consider it a failure and whether they consider it normal that, without the consent of the citizens, or, contrary to their will, they are forced literally into their backyard of radioactive waste. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201850	Thank you for asking, Mr. MP Pernar. Although this is not the subject of this law, I can tell you that it is clear that any activity that will potentially take place in the location you mentioned, it cannot happen without the precise law of the prescribed procedures, which means that the general public will be involved, including the people you mentioned. So we haven't done anything that's not in line with all the regulations that exist so far, and that's the program the government has brought in, that's all those years of thinking about potential locations in the Republic of Croatia that have been known all these years. This is also the process of adopting a state spatial plan that is under way, these are spatial plans that have been adopted locally, so at the last minute, without the consent of the competent state authorities, certainly clear that the complete public, both Croatia and Croatia, across the border, will be included in this, in procedures that would ultimately have this one on the subject to potentially create a landfill. So nothing's over. It's in the process.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201851	Thank you. The next replica is Honorable Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201852	Representative of the Government, as far as the shutting down is concerned, The suspension of 28 dumps, it's an unreasonable decision without any criteria, someone's thought of it, I'm saying it 1,000 times, from Vrgorec you're transporting waste to Sinj, you won't. This may be silenced by Ivan Šisic, the mayor who also postpones this waste, but you will not, you have not put it off yet, will not be given to you by the people. The Brnaza, the huge place, Sinja, those people who live here, Dicma, they shut up the mayors and mayors because they have to keep quiet but they won't give you the people. Is it a reasonable decision for you to transport 120km of waste from one dump, the same sanitary conditions, and di, along the Cetina River? Of course, it's for the best. It's the Minister's idea. And as for the waste disposal itself, so of course it's better to have smaller dumps, composite, recycling yards, waste disposal like that. Slaven Dobrović made on the island of Krk, his project is that of Prof. Ursic, and Mayor Sanader here... A former ten years ago, he said he was going to open Lečevica. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201853	Thank you, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201854	Thank you. As far as the decision is concerned, I think it's a reasonable decision and I don't think the minister did it unreasonablely. What will pass, which will not pass, let us see it as we stand legally and as by law and regulations something can be and you would only agree that clear separation and sorting is actually the solution that as little of the waste that is finally being taken to the dumps and that is the only possible solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201855	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mader.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201856	Thank you, Vice President. I'm very interested in the waste dump of Pishkornica. In 2017, we were in a position to pay that million bonus to the former director of Piškornica in one affair and now there is another affair that is in local media that is a huge amount of waste that is practically delayed in Piškornica, which does not agree with the waste that is shown to have been delayed at Piškornica. I don't know, so I'm wondering if you're familiar with this planned new affair regarding the garbage dump at Piškornica, in Koprivnick Ivanac? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201857	Thank you, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201858	If you think or local self-government that I assume from which you have obtained this information thinks that something is wrong here, clearly, some legal means of informing the competent inspection including our ministry, we will take a close look, see what this is about, and clearly, inform you about it. Now let me tell you something casually, is one way or another, that absolutely makes no sense.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201859	Thank you. The next replica, the esteemed representative Davor Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201860	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State, today is the current topic launched by the European Parliament, more than 200 euro-parliamentaries, environmental associations and entrepreneurs are included in the Green Lift plan. The question of whether Croatia and you and your ministry are planning to engage in this is that I think we should because the goal is to finally prevent environmental pollution, to go to green economies, green jobs, and thus Croatia would certainly contribute because it has a perspective. In particular, you mentioned ecological agriculture, yes, the number of hectares in organic agriculture is increasing, the number of producers is increasing, however, we have not solved the market for them and these days here is an open letter to the minister, wrote the Association of Producers Life because 67 ha is taken by an ecological producer because it is in the public-water good. These two ministries have to agree and organic agriculture is our future and I hope you agree with me on that.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201861	Thank you, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201862	Absolutely, we as the Ministry of Environmental Protection support every green production, as well as here, but clearly, in accordance with laws and regulations that must possibly be met in order to do so. And here, in the meantime, I was able to get from the company that's in charge of making this product pipeline to the Bosnian Ship that interests you, here, I'm being transferred to the 1.12th expect gas delivery for the Bosnian Ship, so you know.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201863	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Damir Felak.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201864	Dear Secretary of State, my replica is heading in the direction of what has already been said, and this is a regional CGO Piskornica. We've heard here that a whole series of accusations have been made on the work of the centre, and the charges have come to the local media from the HSS president of the county organization, and also the head of the Koprivnički Ivanec municipality who accused the regional centre of simplified, illegal waste management at that center, so I ask you, do you, as already asked, do you have any knowledge of that? Clearly, there was no argument for any of his accusations, and Piškornica's recovery dump replied through its director that all these insinuations and one word were false but would ultimately be responsible for that and to determine who was actually right and would such flat-rate accusations, could they lead to a stop to the project of the regional CGO Piskornica? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201865	Thank you, answer
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201866	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201867	Excuse me, Your Honor, I apologize, we have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, a distinguished representative of Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201868	Thank you, my dear. The Rules of Procedure, Art. In 238, Mr. Felak here states incorrectly that the Chief of Staff called someone out, Commissioner of Koprivnička Ivanca, Mr. Šegović only asked that the data that the State Geodetic Authority and the authorised company, which recorded the situation at the disposal, were made available to the public and that it was determined that everything was implemented in accordance with the law, and the fact that citizens are doubtful, and this information, which, which the State Geodetic Administration made, will give the information whether it was in accordance with the law or not.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201869	Thank you. What article did you say was hurt? ... Okay, this wasn't an injury in 238, but here's a warning. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] We have the next breach of the Rules of Procedure, the esteemed representative of Felak.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201870	The Honorable Chairman, too. In 238, Mr. Vlaovic himself said in his presentation exactly what I said here, so I don't see why he felt hurt and I don't see where the Rules of Procedure was hurt by me when I asked the Secretary of State to explain it anyway from the ministry's position. So, Mr. Svegovic made those accusations in public, in public media, responsible for them not being true, so now I expect the ministry to give the word of this whole thing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201871	Yeah, it wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but here's what we're gonna do before notice. The answer to the guest secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201872	Thank you. And I will answer in the same way as Mr. Assembly Attorney Madero. If the application comes to us and those documents that are referred to are clear, we will follow the law and examine it and inform those who have reported it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201873	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Anka Mrak-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201874	Thank you, well-respected Vice President HS, Your Honor, Secretary of State. So, there was an earthquake in Zagreb, which we had little today and we felt what it looks like when something a little less shakes, the result among other things is a large amount of construction waste. It is expected that this amount of construction waste will be even bigger, especially when it is expected that serious reconstructions, changes and certain construction parts will take place. Now what's done is driven to the Yakushevac and there's a dump of that construction waste. What I'm interested in is next. Has the mayor of Zagreb sat down with the ministry, talked a little and seen what can be done there. Because of this construction waste, a new value can be created among other things, a new product can be created. We need it, it may be one of the incentives and development of the economy after this disaster that happened to us with the crown, and in Zagreb and with the earthquake, so I wonder if the talks went that way?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201875	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201876	Thank you. Now, in order not to say now that the city may not have asked or communicated, you should consult your colleagues from the environment, but what I do know, here yesterday, the Vice-President of the Stromar informed our ministry, I saw that there are companies that are capable of this waste, this recycling in a way that is usable, so that we can make sure that when this new law is written that this communication between us and them and the city and all the establishment that happens. So we'll be careful when this law is now passed so that there's no obstacle to it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201877	Thank you, Secretary of State. With this we have exhausted the full debate, I conclude the debate, we will vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201878	Final proposal of the Law implementing EU Regulation 2019/1021 on persistent organic pollutants, emergency procedures, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 925. The promoter is the Government, and the debate is closed, and I am voting on the final proposal of that law. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? I find that most of the votes are 116 for, 1 abstention and 1 against the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201879	Here's the next item on the agenda, that's: Final draft law on amendments and amendments to the Pension Insurance Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. 772. The promoter is a representative of Miranda Mrsic on the basis of an article. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia 172 The Rules of Procedure of HS. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent manner. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings, and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with Article 1(2). 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on Labour, the Pensions System and the Social Partnership. The government has delivered its opinion. Would the applicant like to give an additional explanation? Representative Miranda Mrsic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201880	Mr. Vice President, here in front of an empty booth is a proposal for a law on amendments to the Pension Insurance Act with a final draft of the law. The government has rejected the law. I am sorry that she did not take certain lessons from this law and suggested the amendments to the Pension Insurance Act itself because we have already proposed this before these last amendments to the Pension Insurance Act were made. This bill contains a series of newspapers that will be provided in the pension system in the Republic of Croatia, if the Assembly accepts them, a whole new dimension as well as in the part relating to improving the pension insurance institute and in the part which creates new solutions on the RH pension system aimed at developing and creating a capacitated system for many challenges that bring about future times. So, this is a law that, in fact, anticipates all those changes in the pension system that will take place in the next period, and this is the law for a new time. However, as I said, the government unfortunately did not accept this, this law. In my presentation, I will look further at the views of the Government which are mildly spoken from the hill of the valley written. All solutions in this law, as well as arguments, are based on two basic principles of the pension system, the principle of reciprocity and the principle of solidarity. The law goes after it to solve the problems we have in the pension system, in the first pension column, which have been piled up for years, so here I am going to go very briefly through the newspapers that are being passed in this law. The age limit for the exercise of age pension rights is reduced in such a way as to reduce the age limit for an insurance who has performed parental duties during the first year of the life of a child who is a Croatian citizen unless the international contract makes it different to lower the age limit for age pension rights for one child by 6 months, for two children for 18 months, for three and more children by 36 months. Al, I note that the government has passed a similar provision in the amendments to the law. However, this provision further allows those who, therefore, care for their children, who are then given a reduced pension, as is known from the data in the end, to make their pension adequate. It is also proposed to separate parts of the pension achieved under professional special rules under more favourable conditions and parts of the pension achieved according to the insurance rate covered by the contributions, this was in the law adopted in 2013. Unfortunately, only for political reasons and the voter's approval of HDZ, HDZ has abolished those items of the law completely inappropriately and is now seen in this crown crisis how much this law would be, so that part of the law is extremely important because it is absolutely certain that the pension system that we have in Croatia is not fair because it consists of two systems. In one system, all those who receive pensions are based on their work experience and payments, and in the other part are all those who have retired according to more favourable conditions or are more eligible for pensions. Here, it should be pointed out that the Democratic Party has proposed a Law on Professional Pensions to address the issue of military, police, judicial police and the intelligence system because they are unfairly in this system of privileged pensions, i.e. pensions under special regulations, in this way they would also resolve it. I note that the SDP Government and I, as ministers, have proposed in this House, and the Parliament passed a law in which we have very clearly defined in this law that there are no more preferential parliamentary pensions, so more in the new Parliament's meetings will not be able to retire just because you were in the Parliament but you will have to do your working life. The law in this form in which pensions are now very clearly separated, so those who have retired according to special regulations, in that part clearly, there is also the part that is related to the employment period, it is valorised as well as all other workers' pensions, while this second part that the state has said no matter how much you work, you have the right to retire, and that pension would then be harmonised in a way to clearly see whether the state budget has the opportunity to bring those pensions into line. The special regulations of peace are the problem in Croatia, the citizens are clearly feeling it and it is something that is waiting for us in the future that we will have to resolve because de facto of these pensions under special regulations only remain defence pensions which are otherwise and nominally much bigger than pensions, those pensions paid under the Pension Insurance Act. These are pensions that are a thorn in the eye of citizens, regardless of what the state said if you were in the war and you are responsible for what we have today, you have the right to retire, no one has anything against it, but let those pensions be what they are, but they can't and can't be in the pension system, they have to be paid off somewhere else, and this pension insurance bill that we're proposing is legal, and simply that part of the pension has nothing to do with the pension system. I note that here we have a big problem and pension of the Croatian Council of Defense which is here before us. Minister Medved and we warned that the adoption of the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defences will create a major financial commitment for the state budget. It comes now, this year, and we know that the crisis, that the crown, the epidemic that we have stopped the economy, and quite certainly you, that some of the rights that that law allows will have to go to review and we simply cannot bear such a burden as it imposes on us. Also in this Pension Insurance Act we have been introducing what we have been looking for for years, which unfortunately HDZ and the Government have not, although they have promised, but have not introduced, and this is an addition to a personal pension of 50% of the family's pension, which is in those cases where there are two pensions and one spouse dies under the current law he can choose between his pension or 70% of his deceased spouse's pension. We suggest that the insurance company can keep its pension and have 50% of the total family pension that would belong to it after the death of a spouse. We think it's fair and fair because all these people have been paying for years in the pension system, it's not something that's unusual for countries in the environment to do it for years, and I think our pensioners deserve it and it should have done it before. HDZ had two amendments to the Pension Insurance Act, and it did not. We also allow disabled pensioners because of their professional inability to work achieved until the entry into force of the Pension Insurance Act, we delete their condition that they must work on another job when they are established professional inability to work. We think it's discrediting to these people and this is how we put it in an equal position with other insurance and pensioners. When determining a disability pension caused by illness or injury outside work and when determining personal points, values and points shall be taken for at least 21 years of retirement. In this way, the lower limit of which a certain pension cannot be less and thereby increases the minimum amount of pension for this particular vulnerable and sensitive group in society. Also, in the event that an insurance company first acquires the right to an old age after an old age prescribed for obtaining an age pension, the starting factor increases by 0.34% per month, for each year of completed years of life prescribed for obtaining the right to an age pension no matter how much pension it has. Of course, it is necessary to meet the minimum requirement of 15 years of retirement, so it does not require a condition, at least 35 years of retirement. We introduce this law one novelty, which is to inherit the works of the funds paid behind the amount of insurance. In the name of the cases where the insurance company is unfortunately deceased and none of the family has the right to a family pension, man has again paid into the pension system for years, so by proposing this law, I allow family members from the first order of business to inherit part of the total amount of compulsory contributions for pension insurance and 20% of the recorded, valorised, therefore mandatory contributions. What citizens have told us more than once, when they retire, then only then face how much money they have allocated to the pension system. We believe that insurance and insurance companies as well as in any insurance company have the right to see how much is in their account, regardless of what is the account that is related to intergenerational solidarity, have the means and how much money is paid and on the other hand, it is one way to control employers' payments in the pension system. There are many examples that people are going to retire and then see that they haven't had someone in ten years to pay them in a retirement home or in a retirement pension, they're going to be granted an insurance internship but they're going to be less of a pension. At its session, the government rejected this law with a reason not to offer new solutions that would focus on the basic objectives of the pension reform implemented, which is to ensure the long-term sustainability of the pension system and the adequateness of pensions, which is quite the opposite of what we said in the law, if you have listened well and carefully to my exposure, then you could see that all of this is directed precisely towards making the system adequate and responding to all the challenges that are now ahead of us. Regarding the proposed provision on reducing the good age pension limit for parental care in the first year of the child's life from 6 to 36 months, the government rejected it because it considered that they were injured, contrary to the intensities and directives of the European Parliament and of the Council on the balance between the business and private life of parents and guardians and contrary to the efforts of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to increase the number of fathers who would benefit from their rights under the Law on maternity and parental support. This is where the government forgot that in the law that is now in force, it is allowed for mothers to be granted an extra internship for every child born, which is in principle and discriminatory because if we look at the provisions of the law, then we are correcting that very one discriminatory provision, because this provision, which is in the existing law, remains, but we are adding this possibility to add six more months. That is, the 12th and 36th respectively, and so no one prevents that relief from being used by a parent or using a husband rather than a mother, so a father rather than a mother. In the light of the proposal that, during the use of the salary fee due to the annual leave or leave, the calculations of the pension amount are taken average points, noting that this is one of the major problems, that the calculation of the pension is then based on the averages that are wrong. We believe that a legal solution with an existing legal solution called for by the Government in its opinion will contribute to increasing the pensions of women who have an apparent lower average of men's pensions. The proposal to reintroduce pensions was rejected by the Government because, by amending the Pension Insurance Act, ensuring the application of the single current value of pensions in the calculation and harmonisation of all pensions, we reiterate in response that certain groups of insurance companies exercise pension rights under specific rules that reduce the conditions for obtaining rights or a more favourable way of determining pensions than the conditions laid down in the general rules. It is common to all these pensions that pensions from the pension scheme and based on a generation of solidarity are financed in part or entirely from the state budget and are coordinated in the same way as pensions from the general system. Such a law, therefore, that the provision was in force in the law adopted in 2013 but clearly that HDZ, for its political reasons, by buying an electoral body of defenders, rejected and amended the law, but the citizens very clearly want it to be separated and that preferential pensions or pensions under special regulations have nothing to do with the pension system, again, no one has anything to do with the fact that defenders are entitled to compensation from the state for putting their lives on the front line of the front line, but it has nothing to do with or should be part of the pension system. As for the proposal to introduce the possibility of using a family pension with its pension in the event of a deceased spouse, we are greatly surprised by the government's opinion of the same position that the same government is expressing on this issue in discussions and conclusions at the National Council for Retired and Elderly Meetings and meetings with retired associations, which promises not only analysis but also concrete legal solutions which now, when it can easily accept them as ready solutions, is coldly rejected and we ask ourselves what is the position of the Government sincere and true, and when the Government is serious, and when it is joking. It is true that under the Pension Insurance Act, only one pension under its own choice can be used between 2 or more pensions made in compulsory pensions. Everyone knows that when you have two pensions, at the moment your spouse dies, that your incomes fall in half, that you are below the poverty line, and that's something that I think we all owe to the pensioners in this assembly. The provisions in the current law are exclusive and if chosen, as I have pointed out, the use of a spouse's pension, it may be more favourable, but still lack the funds of your pension, so we think that this part that we have proposed is something that the government should support, if what it says to pensioners is true. I note that this solution exists in a number of EU countries, Slovenia, Austria, Hungary, Germany and Belgium, so they all have it in their system. As for the part itself to allow citizens who have the right to see their own account because in HZMO, the government has rejected it because it believes that we are going towards equating the first or second pension pillar, I think they mixed the pots because that is something that is related to the transparency of the system, and in the parent records that exist we already have all the data we need, it is only necessary to introduce this part that is related to the tax, so with the JOPPD form. The government in the absence of real arguments scares the public and, that it will lead to problems, this leads to the modernisation of the system and is on the trail of similar solutions that European countries have. The law is modern, offering solutions, but as it is, since it is an opposition proposal, the government has not accepted it, but I hope it will realize that some things in the pension system need to be changed urgently. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201881	Thank you. We've got a few replicas, the first distinguished representative of Anka Mrak-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201882	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS. He's a colleague of Mrsic's. In your closing statement, you said, it's a modern, new law that the government didn't accept. We find ourselves, when it comes to the relationship between the opposition and the ruling ones, really in one one-way street, we suggest, even sending messages, so don't, install it, take care of it. I find this part particularly interesting when it comes to the addition, so when a widower or widower is left behind a spouse to get an increased pension because we know that no matter what is necessary and then the government has explained in its own, it says that it is necessary to ensure the long-term and sustainability of the pension system in relation to demographic indicators and the length of life. So, I've heard countless times that it should be done, whether it's left or right at this point. the side of the assembly, and when there is an opportunity to make, [[Intruder: Thank you.]] You don't want to. [[Intruder: Time, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201883	Answer, Honorable Representative Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201884	Yeah, that's something we owe the pensioners, we owe everyone who's long-term paid into the pension system, I expected that at least in part of their response the government would say that, so we'll do it in some other act because now we don't want to do it because you suggested it. De facto Government answers that and what's the basic question, what's the truth? What the Government is saying to one of the pension societies, and what it is saying to us, which gives its answer to the legal proposals. It is very clear from this legislative proposal that the HDZ Government does not want to give the possibility to inherit part of the pension of a deceased spouse and instead of saying that, we will do this, it is a good proposal, here very clearly says no, we will, it is not good because it will lead to problems in the sustainability of the pension system. What's the question, what's the truth, what does the government think about this?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201885	Thank you. Next replica, distinguished representative Ivica Misic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201886	Thank you, Vice President. A fellow Mrsic, looking, when we accuse this government, the only one who has been raising pensions lately, who has given more than a hundred jobs support than you have done and stabilized the budget. And if we're talking about the support that you gave at your time as Minister in 2011, you gave 533, '12. 170, '13. 1068, '14. 8 support and 15. 228 total 2 008 support you gave for your 5 years, 4 years. The government has so far given 486 thousand support for jobs and 5 thousand entrepreneurs or craftsmen help. So this government is the one who's been raising pensions and salaries, and you've been hanging up for as long as I can remember. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201887	Thank you. Dear Representative Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201888	My colleague Misic, I understand why you're talking, you should come to the list, the elections are going, but just to remind you that the HDZ government has frozen pensions and that the Government of Zoran Milanovic, where I was, has defrosted pensions in 2012 and that's the fact. Peace has been frozen from 2010 to 2012 And as for these support, we received EU funding, and we began to receive it when we were in power, when we brought programmes. So, what you're telling me now is that it's easy to say when you have money, it should have been in a crisis that was in place from 2011 to 2014, so you can talk about the support in a way that the HDZ government gave, it didn't give it to the HDZ government, you got EU funding that you then shared with everyone who needed it. And what's happening to you right now, look at what's going on with job support, what's going on in HZZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201889	Thank you. The next replica, the esteemed representative Davor Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201890	Thank you. Mrsic, this bill warned you about the transparency of the pension system and rightly our citizens have the right to know how many they are, they are paid into a pension fund so that they can plan and when they will be retired and how long they will be. Pensions must also be stable, should not come to the question of payouts. However, pensions must monitor the growth of living standards and the growth of the average wage in the Republic of Croatia, which we see is not happening. So with this bill of law, you went in the direction of protecting the standard of pensioners who are often below the poverty threshold. And I would warn here again, that there were 50 kuna pensions for some, and then they lost extra health insurance, more than 10,000 pensioners... Here's the correction. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] It must be corrected by the Government and cannot be corrected. And also more than 16 000 pensioners from agriculture have a pension of less than 1,000,00 kn. When will this injustice be corrected? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201891	Thank you. Reply Dear Representative Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201892	As I have pointed out, this bill goes towards correcting injustices in the pension system, there are many of them, one of the injustices is the issue of agricultural pensions that are low because for years it has been paid low in the pension system, but it could be corrected that it was wanted, but then we gave funds for defence pensions and then the pension system suddenly becomes unsustainable to us. If we get out of the pension system according to special regulations, then that hole that's being talked about all the time wouldn't be so big and so big a lack of funding in the pension system, which would allow us to then raise, raise those pensions. And this mantra that HDZ's government raised pensions didn't, they simply raised all the wages and raised the cost of living and the government had to raise pensions by law. So, it's as good as a pyr to raise the HDZ government, raise pensions, but here's when there's no pay growth and no cost of living, pensions are gone 2 or 3 kunas since the increase was small. So, at that point, the government didn't say anything, but it blended in with its ears and said we couldn't do it anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201893	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201894	Dear fellow Mrsic, you do not expect a government that in 2016, all of this, one part of what you propose, will promise, then 4g. She has done nothing but play social dialogue with the unions and dialogues with the pensioners' associations through the National Council for Retired and Older Persons who have been informed by the government's advisory body, so they should advise them on an act of dialogue, so you do not expect that they will respect this which is either excellent or at least part of these measures to improve the functioning of the pension system. The problem is that the ministry and the government don't use other people's experiences, that they've left the pension system, that's why they've abolished his professional, so professional and financial autonomy, and that's why things like this happen to us here. The system is not conducted professionally and the system is not at all a function of protecting citizens from growing poverty.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201895	Reply Dear Representative Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201896	Thank you very much. Comrade Hrelj, yes, this bill goes precisely to protect certain categories of pensioners from poverty. But with HDZ coming to power, the pension system is devastated, we see what happens in HZMO where through other ministries where there are no problems with, with competitions and employment, people are employed and then transferred to HZMO. This will lead to a long-term problem in operation because HZMO is a house that is important to ensure that the pension system is well serviced. HDZ promised much and did nothing that Minister Pavic, who was a pest for the pension system and thank God he left here, did what he did, so he launched a referendum to return from 67 to 65 and that is the greatest success of Minister Pavic and these HDZ authorities.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201897	Thank you. Do the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it? There's no one here. Okay. Does a representative of the government want an additional explanation? Dear Secretary of State Majda Buric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201898	Thank you, Vice-President HS, good afternoon, all of you, honourable parliamentary representatives and MPs. The Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes that HS not accept this proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Pension Insurance Act with the Final Proposal for the Law of the Proposer of Mr Miranda Mrsic. First of all, what I have to point out is that pensions are safe, that they were coming and coming in time and needed our citizens who belong to a vulnerable group, which is our pensioners, to calm down and say again loud and clear, pensions were coming and coming in time. In addition, what I must remind myself of is that this government headed by Prime Minister Plenkovic has raised all pensions absolutely all pensions by 12%, and the lowest pensions it receives by about 250,000 of our pensioners have been raised by 15%. That this government is very solid towards those who have fewer, we also prove to the national pension or national compensation for older people who are preparing for legal procedure. And now I'm going back to this bill. We must therefore point out that this bill does not offer new solutions aimed at the basic objectives of pension reform or reform of the pension system, which is the long-term sustainability of the pension system as well as the adequateness of pensions. The proposed possibility of reducing the age limit for the period of parental duty is not acceptable since it leads to early retirement and shorter labour market retention. The change in the method of calculating the value points for the use of maternity leave cannot also be accepted because the mitigation of the difference in the amount of pension is, in a certain way, compensated by the institution of the added internship of 6 months. I need to further explain that, if you remember from 1.1.2019, the government introduced the Institute of Added Internship. What does that mean? This means that both mothers and fathers and adoptors can use at the time of entering or obtaining the conditions for retirement for 6 months of additional training for each child born or adopted. And what does that mean in the end? This means an average of 2% higher pension per child, so that's something this government has made possible, which is in effect since 1.1.2019, and I can inform you that there are already about 11,000 people who are using this possibility. Furthermore, we also consider the immaterial separation of pensions made under a special regulation for transparent insight into the funds provided in the pension system from the state budget. Why? Because this is already regulated by the Regulation on how to determine the amount of funds provided by the Republic of Croatia in the state budget to cover part of compulsory pension insurance, this is something that has already been made. We also point out that it is not acceptable to introduce a parent register which makes personal records of paid contributions, to prescribe ways of determining the value of contributions and to be able to inherit valorised contributions, which is not acceptable because the first pillar system rests as you know on intergenerational solidarity, not on capitalisation and accumulation of contributions, which is a feature of the second pillar or capitalised system, and the payment of contributions is within the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Finance or the Tax Administration. It is also not acceptable to reintroduction so-called. Bonifications, i.e. rewards for long-term stay in the world of work, for the retirement of long-term insurance workers, because it is a kind of early retirement, without pensioning, and that, for this very reason, the pension reform abolished that bonification in order to eliminate the double benefits that these pensioners had previously had. We also point out that accepting the proposed new family pension model or the possibility of using an allowance in the event of the death of a spouse or an extramarital partner with a personal pension would require redefining the existing conditions and methods of family retirement, given that we already have significant, significantly lighter conditions than other EU Member States, this is something that needs to be particularly highlighted. I would also point out that the proposed decisions of this bill increase the expenditure of the pension system without indicating how these financial resources were provided for 2020, which were estimated in the amount of billions and 65 million kuna, and by 2021, in the amount of billions and 190 million kuna, and the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes to the HS not to accept this Amendments and Supplements to the Pension Insurance Act with the Final Proposal of the Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201899	I thank the Honorable Secretary of State. We have a few replicas. The first one is Anka's distinguished representative, Mrak Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201900	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State. So we're not surprised by that finding that the government is proposing not to accept this, so it's nothing weird to us. I'm going to ask you about a very similar question as I asked Mr. Mrsic. So, the fact is that when one of the partners or spouses goes away that the one who stays alone regardless of having the opportunity to choose a pension from the spouse or partner who left is in a really new situation in a different situation. Every time the election campaigns all parties talk about going with the amendments to the law, trying to regulate it, making it possible for people to really try to live quality, that's what I've had a chance to hear from the party you belong to. So I'm particularly surprised that you're not that part, that it wasn't the answer we're going to consider, so we're going to put it in some other regulation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201901	Thank you. The reply to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201902	Thank you for asking, Mrs. Dark Taritash. I will repeat once again that the Republic of Croatia has much, much more looser and generous conditions than all other EU Member States, and what I must also remind myself of is that with a good analysis and good system scan, which we are working on with regard to family pension, it is in fact resting any remaining action in order for it to be really focused in a good and proper way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201903	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mladen Madjer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201904	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, in your presentation you mentioned a national pension. According to some knowledge, it would have to be about 1,000 kn and at the same time we know how many agricultural pensions are and how many agricultural pensioners are below that limit of 1000 kn, even below the social aid limit, and I wonder if the government is considering the amount of pension for farmers who are really embarrassing that they are below one social aid without being under national pension? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201905	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201906	Thank you. So once again, I will just remind you that the Law on National Compensation for Elderly Persons is, therefore, what we are talking about here is a national pension, in preparation for you and the honourable parliamentary representatives and MPs to discuss according to the current projections in May or June of this year. The bill's proposal is that it goes into regular procedure, as far as height is concerned, you remember yourself, and even from public appearances that we're actually talking about projected heights of about 800 kn, but we're still waiting for big work, procedures, you know how it goes, so that's something we're just going to discuss from May on out.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201907	Thank you. The next replica, the esteemed representative Davor Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201908	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State, can you tell us whether a pension payment will come into question because all of this is now of interest in the current crisis in the economy, whether the system is stable. Secondly, how long is the average pension in the Republic of Croatia now, is the growth of the average salary in the Republic of Croatia and the cost of living? We believe that you must consider this, to hear by the end of the year what it plans, whether pensions will continue to grow in the Republic of Croatia or whether or not you will correct this injustice because some have been raised in pensions of 50, 60 kn and have lost the right to supplementary and health insurance. You have to correct that injustice immediately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201909	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201910	Dear Mr. Vlaovic, I'll remind you once again, pensions are safe, they paid off in time, so they'll stay and keep going. What we must specifically mention is that in the past 3.5 years, absolutely all pensions have grown by 12% while pensions for 250 000 of our citizens who receive the lowest pension have increased by 15%. You asked me what is the average pension today, how much is its amount, so according to the data, the freshest data for April this year, the average pension is €2827, we're talking about pensions without international contracts and that's your share of 41% in average salary. It should also be mentioned here that the average duration of these persons is 30 years, while the average duration in the EU is 35 years and 37.5 years in Germany. As regards average pensions for persons who are 40 years old and older, their pension is an average, 4664 kn which is your share of almost 70% on average. [[Santer Invader: Time.]] It is therefore necessary to continue to encourage our citizens to stay longer in the world of work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201911	Thank you. Dear Representative Ivica Misic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201912	I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Rada Club and solidarity to discuss the Law on Defence Pensions. Yesterday we heard one scandalous president of the state who said in Jasenovac that a plate of HOS was to be thrown away, so I ask if they should also be extinguished by knowing that we are paying 14,000 partisan pensions, gentlemen, asking if it is possible for so many people to live and I wonder from here whether these records, these young people from 17 to 25, have been killed in their country? If it hadn't been for the Hoss, we Vukovar wouldn't have been able to defend it so much, and we wouldn't have the state as we have. And you gentlemen who are rebelling and disgraceful is that one president of the state says they are not defenders and that the board should be thrown away. It's easy not to believe but I understand, gentlemen, you're making Ustasha out of these defenders and you want to show it to the Croatian state which is not the way it is, and the president of the country tried to speak. If defense pensions are good, I don't know, probably not and should be raised but the same should be examined by partisan pensions that 100-year-olds signed on what condition, the government needs to check it out, and see where we stand. If the Chetnic winners in Vukovar are down, that's not what the president is talking about, here you go. You're talking about the Chetniks who attacked us, who entered our country and who killed us. Therefore, you object to the subject when we had, when grenades above our heads were sown, certain people like the President were sitting in the office and enjoying themselves and today when these people were gone and parents didn't know where their graves were yet to be thrown at them and not admitted. Let's be ashamed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201913	Thank you. Is anyone else answering for, the esteemed representative Glasnovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201914	So I would ask for a break because I fully agree with Mr. Misic as parliamentary representative. I find it strange now to erase collective memory, I wonder if there is one monument to the victims of Chetnik in BiH? Of course not, because you're the same man we fought in this war against those who switched five-squares for gambling, and there was a turn in the second war. These are current issues, which is why you have no Chetnik victims in BiH because they have now turned into partisans. And today people sit here one came out now the lady here who defends that criminal system. Will he be coming to Valpovo where a woman, children, elderly about 66,000 members of the German minority were killed, the largest camp in Valpovo wanted to be there to lay a crown of this team that was on Jasenovac? Will you come to Slatini Drenovac where the first partisan concentration camp was? He wants to come to Belgrade with the same team where historian Srdjan Cvetkovic, it's science, it's science like this book "Partisan Crimes in Lica" where the '45 Partisans, a Serbian historian, killed by the '46 thousand Serbs, and... the entire minor football team, etc., most of the victims were under 18. We keep silent and defend the bloodiest tyranny. I ask Mr Milanovic and this left wrong Ubba and party digs up new tombs every week. I was born in Gračani, there were bones by the streams, Markushevac etc. Who killed these people from Zagreb to Zapresic? Now you've got two fake movies on HTV why aren't they telling the truth? If HTV's going to show a movie about the camp, you want to show a movie about the camp... 20,000 prisoners have disappeared, etc. And you, sir, laugh, you are a disgrace to the Croatian people, you with a beard here I speak to you. Yeah, that's funny to you, tens of thousands of dead.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201915	Thank you. Is there anyone else? Please, Mr. Glasnović. I declare a five-minute break to 12.35. MEETING AT 12:30 A.M. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 12.35 HOURS]] I'm opening a club debate right now. She is the first representative of the HDZ Club of Representatives, the distinguished representative Ljubica Lukacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201917	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, the Honorable colleagues and fellow MPs. Here, on behalf of the HDZ Club, I'll say a few words about the proposed law. First of all, I would like to point out that this bill does not offer any new solutions, and that is what the State Secretary also spoke about at the beginning of its presentation. Therefore, if the proposed law cannot expect the sustainability of the pension system and the adequateness of pensions, I do not think that such a law is simply welcome. As regards the possibility of reducing the age limit for the period of parental duty, it is not realistic because it leads to early retirement and shorter labour market retention. The application of the method of calculating the value points in the use of maternity leave is also not realistic because the mitigation of the difference in the amount of pension has already been replaced in another way. I'd like to say a few words about the retirement separation. We do not think that the separation of pensions is necessary, the pensions carried out under a special regulation, since the 2013 law did not win the result, and in which law we had such a provision, therefore the provision had to be abolished, and this area is now governed by the Regulation on how to determine the amount of funds provided by the Republic of Croatia in the state budget to cover part of the pension insurance obligations. Furthermore, it is not realistic to reintroduce so-called. the old-age pensions for long-term insurance, as this is about a kind of early retirement without pensioning. For this very reason, in the pension reform this bonification and abolished. Furthermore, at the HDZ Club, we do not believe that it is possible to apply the value of points in the regulation of the height of the disability pension, i.e. up to 21 years of age, as the applicant suggested, because the occurrence of disability at an earlier age is compensated by an added internship. I would point out that accepting the proposed new model of family pensions, i.e. the possibility of using an allowance in the event of the death of a spouse, or an extramarital partner, would require redefining the existing conditions and methods of calculating family pensions, and as the State Secretary noted, the Republic of Croatia has significantly lighter conditions for going to family retirement than other Member States. One area, which I would particularly like to highlight, is the proposal from the motion to acquire the right to an age pension and early retirement of disabled persons due to their professional inability to work, i.e. partial loss of employment, without additional conditions. So, as we know, a year's internship is needed after retirement, so after the user has retired because of his professional incompetence to work and the pronoun suggests that this additional condition is no longer available. I do not think that this is necessary, since the users of disability pensions due to their professional inability to work tend to stay in the world of work, and this is also the interest of the Republic of Croatia, which is why employers are encouraged to hire people with disabilities. It is worth knowing that users of disability pensions due to professional inability to work are persons with disabilities who are still quite capable of being on the labour market, whether in the open labour market, whether in protected conditions, this will already be determined by professionals, but in any case, those insurance companies who have not been established pension because of their general inability to work and, as we have already told many times here in the Croatian Parliament that the intensity of all, persons with disabilities is as long as possible in the world of work, and therefore, and if you remember, we have made a decision here that even some people with disabilities can retain who are in the world of work and enter the world of work can also retain the right to use personal disability in order to encourage them to remain in the world of work regardless of their disability. I don't think all these proposals in this law at this point are, in any case, expected to accept, the HDZ Club is not going to accept this bill because what I have to mention here right now, I well remember some similar proposals that were proposed there somewhere in 2014 when the promoter was Minister of Labour and Pension System and, of course, those proposals were not accepted. So today when the proposer proposes them, it personally seems to me that it's nothing but here, in a way, a kind of pulsism, but good. In any case, the HDZ Club will not accept this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201918	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, the esteemed representative Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201919	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I know what party discipline is, but I am sorry that the distinguished representative Lukačić, who is always struggling with the rights of persons with disabilities, is behind the HZMO opinion behind which the government stood around the users of the disability pension because of the professional inability to work, partly loss of work ability. So, this law does not see why this would not be possible because, namely, the government stood at the point of view, and that is also the honourable representative Lukacic and said that it was settled. 100. The Pension Insurance Act and there's no need to change that. We believe that a valid legal solution, which also warns the Ombudsman for people with disabilities, this group of pensioners has obviously been suspended, and by accepting this proposed legislative amendment to which users, I repeat, disability pensions due to professional inability to work, abolished the part that they have to have one more year of insurance after recognising the right to a disability pension is something that is very simple and that has to be done before. It's absolutely certain that HDZ did not do it, and in this way they would have come into an equal position with other users and insurance companies. As for the very part of the discussion of colleagues who caught Ustasha and Partisans, which I realize is part of it, they are not there, but this is the moment when it is used to put things very clearly on the table, from 2005 to 2012, with 35,000 defenders the number of defenders increased to 72,000. And as for these famous partisan pensions in the last 5 years. At 20,000, their numbers fell below 9,000, I think 9800 and something. When compared to average pensions, then the average defence pension is about 5,000,00 kn, while the average defence pension is a partisan or those who inherited the right to their pension because they are no more, there are no living, is somewhere 2,850,00 kn. The government's insistence that it should not be seen how much it is paid to the pension system is slightly odd because I think it should be very interesting for the government because in this way we could very, much simpler manage the pension system, this does not mean a transitional period towards the abolition of the Generational solidarity system with which the Government, in its opinion, in the absence of legal arguments, scares the public, but rather, the modernisation of the system of generational solidarity on the trail of similar solutions that have developed European states, so in different countries, such as. Sweden and Poland have personal records, personal accounts in pension insurance, what they would achieve in such a way as to have double control of the payment of contributions. One is control by HZMO or the tax administration, we advocate to return it to the mother's diet and to pay into the pension system the one who manages them, which is the pension institution and on the other hand was control by the citizens themselves who are paying into the pension system because they would know how much money there is in their account. That's what they see when they retire and then there's doubt after that because people then see how much they've paid into the pension system, and how much they're going to retire. In this way, they will be able to know how much is paid, but they will also be able to project their pension from the first pension stake. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201920	Thank you. We have one replica, the esteemed representative of Ljubica Lukačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201921	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, fellow Mrsic, as far as defense pensions are concerned, I'm not going to comment in any way if it's my opinion that this government has done it in the best way possible, as many times as we've mentioned here, we leave the defenders, so that's how it is, we've done it well because if it wasn't for the defender we wouldn't be sitting here today, that's one thing. And as for the disabled, you said that the Ombudsman supported this proposal that you proposed in the law, so the attorney-in-law strongly supports the survival of all persons with disabilities in the world of work as long as possible. I don't see a problem in that year when it comes to retirement because of the professional incompetence to work is that everyone stays in the world of work anyway. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201922	Thank you. Reply Dear Representative Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201923	Dear Representative Lukačić, I think that, in your discussion, you must defend what the club has told you, but what I would also like to refer to is the question of the disability of disabled workers and disabled defenders. You know that's a big problem, that for the same physical damage, we have a different disability, that we're in 2013 and '14. We started to settle because when someone loses their hand, if they lost it to the machine or somewhere in the war, then that physical loss is the same, we're the only country in the world where for the same physical damage we have a different percentage of disability and that's what creates uncertainty among citizens, which creates a negative effect on defenders. That should've been fixed, why didn't you make it right, only you know that.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201924	Thank you. The next debate is on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Youth List, the distinguished representative Tomislav Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201925	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Assembly, Your Honor's Secretary of State, Your Honor. Looking at your proposal, it is seen that this is a comprehensive proposal in which there is a lot of knowledge and certainly whoever was at the executive office in the ministries is gathering a lot of knowledge and always asking the question when we are going like this as an opposition to propose with law and ruling why you didn't do it when you were in power. It is and of course there is more, sometimes there are reasons that are objective, some were subjective, some are bound politically, coalitionally, and all. Likewise, by ruling on my part now, I cannot do it, and there is everything we would like to do and what we would like to do, for example. in this case, the pensioners wished because they simply cannot find models to meet all the needs they have and this shows only that both the ruling and the opposition must agree that they are the fundamental elements of the functioning of the state system based on the revenues of the state budget or certain specific revenues they have and defend it at all costs. And then there wouldn't be a debate here if we needed planes, if we had some shortages somewhere, or we needed someone else, some other maybe get, or let's say, financing, but we'd be clear here, clean. And we have to set up, now this crisis has picked up on a much higher pedestal of our health system, you also know very well what the state of the health system is like, that everything that's owed she, somewhere now standing on the side, piles up every day, and very soon when she gives up the crisis, we'll have the pressure of the wholesaler again, the pressure of all those who supply her, needs someone to pay it, there was a crisis, we've been solid, now pay us, and we're going to get the pressure that's hard sometimes to endure, but now he's in another plan and he's not in focus, but it's going to be very soon. So the pensions we are now saying are insufficient in the financial crisis that is coming to us will be even harder to do. It will be even harder to meet all these requirements, but it will have a much better excuse for those who are in the government, in power, will say, we can't do it because everyone knows that the crisis has caused the budget's revenue to fall and here, Minister Maric said that 1/3 is only in the 4th month, compared to last year's one-third of the income achieved and there will be an excuse for everything, no money and everything is real and everyone expects it to be. And let's collectively endure all this difficulty, and also, probably in that collective and our pensioners will bear part of the responsibility, but that's the life ahead of us. But it's very difficult to see that certain costs appear which are really not necessary and rightly all have to ask why there is then a lack of somewhere where the basic living need is. But I'd like to, this was so prelude, I'd more get around one topic, it's a matter of part-time. Today I looked at the announcement of the catalog that our trading house is issuing, thanking its employees who are all the time in this crisis with customers who are risking their health, trying to secure all the goods, when we come to the store under these conditions that we have everything and thank ourselves and politicians thank both the cashiers and the cashiers so that once I can correct, that they are not just cashiers, you have, and all those who work in this activity, but does anyone ask them how their working hours are? They... I read, you always mention flexible working hours. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In our country, when you say something is flexible, it's usually at the expense of workers, whenever something is flexible, it breaks over workers and you go to a Kaufland and you listen to someone working there for six or seven hours a week, it's part-time. So also all the other advertisers, look at the ads only, the commercial houses that are primarily received in the work relationship, most of them demand to start a working relationship on part-time under the pretext that they are flexible, meet the needs of citizens. Which is the flexibility when you get to work for 6 or 7 hours and you have a trip, whether you get that one hour or you actually lose every working day for an hour, every month, every year and so on, and someone lives like that, and then when you get to retirement, not full-time, that time of year, is there, you admit to being interned, but you don't recognize under the basis of which it's calculated. Those people we're praising right now are gonna have a full pension. Unfulfilled working hours where no one raises the problem, and I would agree that individual cases, less coverage, but if under inspection it is established, it finds that certain stores have their employees on part-time, then we have failed to do our job both as a state and as politicians, and we need to be clear that in such a way that we do not go from such a pay phone, any political speakers should be commended because first we should help these people to have full time, to grow full-time, and then that the pensions that will be paid will be enough to live. That there must not be national pensions, that there must not be any need for someone to have minimum pensions because they could not achieve it. In the same catalogue, when you look at which comes from 23rd in force, it stands, thanks to our agricultural producers who grow their products, who now hold our market, who deliver the goods, which are now the most important, so we are very concerned about them, we will worry about through a number of policies that we will propose, but if you look at the pensions of just agricultural producers, you will see that they are on, that it is a black spot and often on this one, too, mentions that this is a problem that is not solved. It means that someone who, under the circumstances they were working, created, contributed, in the end, we as a society put him on the sidelines and those pensions are among the lowest. And these are real questions, so when we thank anyone, then we primarily look at what conditions these people are working on, what rights they're doing, and finally, what pension they're going to have, let's keep that in mind in any proposal for pension reform. I accept that every proposal that comes in most of the time has contributed something, but if we were to dissipate just now the government, I would say, it's not exactly that much has happened. 12% of the synchronization has been raised, has there been any prior coordination before this government? Yes, it is. It was synchronised, life costs were rising, there were various parameters, and it was synchronising. Everyone had to coordinate because if there had been no pension adjustment before this government, some of them might have stayed on pensions that amounted to several hundred kunas, a thousand kunas or whatever the amount was, they would never have increased. There must be a mechanism. So let's not overemphasise at times what is being carried out in the current and conditional circumstances that would otherwise cause social crisis, social unrest. But here, I'm sure Mrsic also that this proposal will not be accepted by the ruling majority, it's a good attempt like it's your attempts, today it will cover it, here at 1 o'clock begins a conference for the press government, it will be the main news this will disappear somewhere, yesterday were the proposals of laws that have disappeared, maybe around Jasenovac, and every day something will happen with which any proposal of opposition will fit well or put it at a time when no one is watching it but it remains recorded that whoever proposed, when he went to the elections, puts it in his program and has an obligation to meet it so... Let's stay in it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201926	Thank you. We're about to take a break. We're about to start taking a stand.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201927	We continue with the club laws, reminds me of the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Pension Insurance Act. Now it's Mr. Hrvoje Zekanovic, he's gone. Are we going okay, are we going? Okay. Mrs. Anka Mrak Taritash will speak for the GLAS Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201928	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, we have before us the proposal of counterpart Miranda Mrsic, amendments and additions to the Pension System Act in which the Government has normally responded that it is not acceptable for different reasons. If I'm not mistaken, it's a proposal that was still last year, so before this whole story we have with the coronary virus and, of course, in Zagreb, I'm afraid that all of this we have, what we're shaking is kind of a coronal virus among Zagreb is somehow in another plan, although of course when you get hit by these two things then you see the extent of the damage and years of bad governance of the City of Zagreb. But to go back to the subject that it is. A few things and a few topics were considered here. Maybe I'll start at the end. Therefore, there is also a ruling of the Constitutional Court of 30 January 2018 which speaks of the fact that surveillance should be done, can work within 10 years not in 5 years as it is now in the legislative proposal, so in all these refusals, perhaps the Government had a place and time to accept it. So that's something the Constitutional Court said that it should change 5 years in 10 years, which in this technical part or formal part of the law was envisaged, but we really have one situation where all that comes from the opposition is automatically not accepted. So we even have some proposals that were very short, so they were very clear in relation to certain provisions. Something that might help the government itself, but politics is absolutely defined in a way that when the opposition comes, we'll either consider it later or we'll see whether we're going to or not according to something or it'll be some kind of whole proposal, that's in principle. In this proposal that we have several topics that are really important enough and important enough that we have the right to discuss it and if not now, but I really believe that in due course and in relation to it, maybe attitudes and reflections and to realize that it will not, should not be bad but even more. The first thing is the separation of pensions, that we have a special system where we have acquired pensions based on the internships that we have achieved, or that part, it is niched by the basis of specific regulations. It's something that should really be so defined and for reasons, so it's all going from the same budget, we don't have some specific budget, but it's always good to know how much we spend on pensions where people have earned their jobs, internships, years of separation from those pensions where one policy has decided to have pensions according to a special regulation and why and why it's necessary, whether or not I won't doubt this pay phone, it's some other story, but what should be a minimum to really separate those two types of pensions and that we know exactly what part of the budget goes for one, and what part of the budget goes for other pensions. For the last 10 years, every time there's been an election campaign and every time in that election campaign, I don't share a policy left, right, like this or like that, but it's always going to turn to a part of the pensioners. And it's always going with the story that at a time when one of the pensioners, so regardless of whether they're partners or whether the husband and wife are left alone, it's always the story that you're staying on one pension, and the terms and conditions are staying either in the same apartment or in the same apartment or in the same apartment, and we're going through now when we come to power, then we're going to make sure that you and your pension and part of your spouse's pension are left with you, or that it increases by a certain percentage. So it's a mantra that's always, a little listen to pre-election promises and in pre-election promises it's always a mantra no matter what side it goes on because it's convenient to promise and if you vote for us it'll be so. Well, when it comes to opportunity, it doesn't really happen. This proposal that's been made for us in GLAS in that part of the good proposal, it's good to do it, it's good to do it, it's good to do it, it'd be a good message. And what the government said in its explanation at the end of the argument, in the last sentence, the government said that there would still be some kind of body, so it would be for some other time and it would be for some other story. But I'm sure we won't see it now, perhaps in another way, in another world or another life outside the crown, it will still be and we'll have the chance to really see it. There's one part, so the law is always especially this guy you share a little on, you divide into those where you send certain political messages and you have some things that are technical. When some things are technical to us it always seems to be relatively and easily and understand and accept and define. Here we are talking in this law about that proposal where different points are valued during birthrights. Generally, we don't understand why it couldn't have been accepted, it's absolutely clear or that we have personal records of all the insurance companies so that at one point it can be seen. In fact, I do not want to go back to that story, raising family pensions or otherwise defined, or that supplement. A man who's been in politics for a very, very long time, when I said so how can you, in a campaign, so how can you say that and you won't do it, and he says, and what he promises, you make it easy. There too some things will have to change from that to reality. And we have one piece, the same part in the part that's supposed to, and that's inheriting part of the mandatory contributions. So, when someone goes somewhere else, I guess there's this other story, some other universe that can then inherit parts of mandatory contributions. You, when you inherit your parents, therefore, are the same as the first inheritance order, if there are debts you will inherit these debts, these debts will not be forgiven, you will inherit those debts and those who are heirs will inherit the debts. It seems to us there might be a step in this part. But it's always the key question of what do you want? Do you want to have some regulation or law that is clear, which is understandable, which with certain small measures allows people to live more decently, safer or you want to have a series of really great populists, big promises, great admiration for the success of this government that we have, every time I think about the opposition, we, when we question something, really also from our fellow parliamentary representatives from the ruling option, get that we do not admire the success of this government. For any dance, especially tango, it takes two. Equally this time, or storm of the crown virus that is really enhanced in Zagreb, and with the earthquake is the time where the ruling people speak of the community, but they experience this community as a one-way street or community is if you really admire the government enough, its decisions and everything that it is. If that's what you're arguing about in any way, then it's not about community, then it's about opposition to populistism. So, this proposal that came before or before it was sent to the parliamentary procedure before the coronal theme of the virus became a world topic at all, it was somewhere in December I think it was when the Wuhan report and there was what was happening, but this law says that when it comes to the pension system we should have a clear attitude, say what we want and not just declare it, when we get there it will be better. This was an opportunity to install some of these proposals, to say this we wait for the time, this no, but opportunities are missing and this is another one of the opportunities that has been missed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201929	It is now up to Mr Silvano Hrelja who will speak in front of the Club of Representatives of HSU, SNAGE, Independent Representatives and New Politics. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201930	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, Your Honor. State Secretary, respected by the Proposer of this, these amendments and additions to the Pension Insurance Act. So, right at the beginning, let me say, the HSU Club, the independent representatives and the SNAGA and the New Politics will support these bill proposals even though, this bill, although we know what it is, which is his destiny given the opinion of the Government and the parliamentary majority, or the number of hands that will vote against this bill. However, this does not in any way limit us to speak positively to the proposals contained in this, in this law, and not to compare it in any way to the current Pension Insurance Act which is in force and which in 2018 experienced the last, last, changes. So I will do so through the intentions of this law, by law, by comparing what we have today to comment on this, this proposal, the bill. So, you spoke to the esteemed promoter about reducing the age limit for the exercise of age pension rights in a parenting insurance company. So there's 2018. The government has introduced a kind of change where it has recognised an additional retirement insurance internship for women or parents who, six months each, per child. Yeah, but that provision, and in that law, here's the second approach, here's the approach to early retirement, so. So, but also what the government has adopted has a discriminatory character because it is only for those who, those mothers or parents who, who retired after 1 January 2019, and for all those who had not received this status, did not receive adequate recognition of the additional insurance standing. So that's the first thing I want to point to. Here in these amendments and the additions of the law are spoken of increasing, about increasing the value of the score during the use of maternity leave, the right to maternity leave, parental leave, the right to work with half the full-time work for increased care of the child's leave, it is a very good measure, it is a very good measure that would in some way reduce the lag since it is used mainly by women, lagging behind in the final level of pension of women for, for men and she has her own very precise purpose, exactly that, and she is reducing the poverty of women, women, women in retirement. Of course, at the time in which we live today, especially that the need is increased for the care of the elderly, therefore it is not only in this direction in which this bill is spoken of that it should and should be considered because, sooner or later, people, regardless of what is not provided for too much in our legislation, will use certain concessions because it will be a simple, simple need of this society and such things should be foreseen in any case. So, I have, there's, there's one thing, one thing where we can pollemize, it'd be good for us in society to pollemize. The term “priority pension” is often used. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, But I'd make another distinction. In addition to pensions under special regulations, there is also part or part of the pension that is status pensions. That part should be separated sooner to see where the money is paid than the part covered by the contributions over the years. You know, both police officers and officials have special regulations of the benefits, they have payments of contributions that the state or pays or doesn't pay, but they're enlisted to pay, right, register, register. So they're one thing, they don't have another law, they don't have shared sources of their rights, while in the defense attorneys, in the academics they have, one part is status, and one part, uncovered entirely by this contribution and the other part by a larger or smaller part, which is covered by contributions throughout the year. I think we should work this out, this is on a good track for separation, but it would give us a lot to build on. So this should in any case be arranged for such combinations as proportionate pensions, this is covered, and that belongs to you from some other sources. As far as payments are concerned, always, as in Slovenia, as in all social contributions, everything goes through, through the Slovenian Pension Insurance Office, so can payment be here, but something else is important. It's important where it's charged, whether it's a pension fund, payout is a technique. Whether it is a pension insurance fund or it is the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Defence, diplomacy in another context, in terms of enrollment, on the costs of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, etc. So this certainly deserves our special attention. And what happened after our coalition corned government where it tried, where the part that was covered by the contributions was tried to harmonize in accordance with all the pensions of the ZOM, and the other one that wasn't covered by contributions only when GDP grew above a certain limit, I think that it would have been very, very, very fair, but that certain groups politically used it for their breakthrough and eventually conditioned this government that and what was then necessary was to cut pensions by 10% that now, in this situation, had rewarded them, and did not reward those who in 2009 above 3.500,00 kn remained without their 10% where they were, where there were more reasons for them than, but for these others, left them behind, left us behind, and then called us why we couldn't, so we couldn't do it, because in our time it was such a lack of money and such a crisis that it couldn't be resolved and that we could therefore be reduced to this 10% of pensions, above. So we had a sense of measure whether someone wanted to admit it or not. As for family pensions, this is one approach, possibly one approach. In the meantime, we have, I say ours, our bill of law is in a procedure that says no to 50% of the family pension that this says, but I think it speaks of 50% of the deceased's pension, which is more favourable than here and speaks of the right to retire in case it's more favourable or if both spouses haven't worked, when one deceased has the right to use 80%. It's two of our bill's proposals, and I know that we're going to support this, and I know that you're going to support our bill, and I don't have any dilemmas. This is, this is a new proposal, this is also on the trail of European solutions to the Croatian problem. You must know that the huge increase in poverty in women after 65, who live on their own, the strategy against the poverty of the Croatian government, which was inherited from the former government in 2014 to 2020, remains a dead letter on paper, I say, because it had no basis and had no defined goal where it would come from. Family pensions in any case are one of the, one of the blocks in the mosaics against the fight against poverty, the Croatian Government did not recognise it either in its own opinion, nor in its fact that the strategy is somehow brought back to life, to create action plans, action plans and to know which direction it is going to go in. So, of course, such solutions are not new, so these are European solutions, there are Austria, Germany, Slovenia, Hungary, Belgium, Italy and we are really behind it all. And that I don't say much, of course in the procedure is your bill of law that allows, gives more liberalisation to pensioners to work and users of the lowest pensions without abolishing the lowest pensions and users of family pensions, and to say these 0.34% for the older than 65. Up to 70 is the absurd law we have in place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201931	Thank you, too. Mr. Mladen Karlic will have his own debate, so that's how we begin an individual debate, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201932	Thank you, Vice President, Your Honor's Secretary of State, Your Honor, Here is a proposal to amend the law and supplement the Pension Insurance Act. Otherwise, a very serious, complex law that is not easy to change, which actually requires careful thinking about entering because it is tied up as a system of connected vessels, causes immediate problems when something changes in it, complements. And what is extremely important is that compulsory pension insurance based on generational solidarity is governed by this law and by the provisions of the Pension Insurance Act, based on generational solidarity, ongoing financing of expenditure and predetermined fees, the provisions of the Pension Insurance Act with mutual security insurance, means the addiction and pension heights in terms of employment and salary and solidarity, which is a social redistribution in favour of certain groups. So we're paying our pension to those who are now retired, and they're gonna retire to us later. And what would be extremely important in this law to be as righteous as possible. That's what would matter with these few things. Mr. Mrsic, when he started, discussed this proposal with his family, said that the law is modern and offers solutions. I think that most of us, especially here you may be professional in this area, could also prepare these solutions and supplement the amendments to this law and, of course, propose a billion or more kunas of new costs for the pension system and for the state budget. But in this situation, what's the biggest problem, so we have, we're offering a solution to improve the pension system, but we're not offering a way to reach billions of kunas to ensure that we don't make further problems exactly what we're talking about long-term sustainability of the pension system and... Retirement. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I think it's very difficult to make, and I agree and I would very much like to make changes that would improve the status of pensioners and increase pensions and resolve a number of issues that we would all like to have our pensioners have much more quality. However, we need to think about exactly the sustainability of this pension system, of course especially at this time. If we consider that the number of pensioners is a million and 240 thousand, somewhere ahead of the crisis, the number of insurance workers or people who work a million and 540 thousand, the ratio of 1:1,24 is clear that it is difficult to provide an additional billion kuna for them to go into these changes of the law. What makes me especially, I don't know why Mr. Mrsic keeps being coded, in this retirement separation... By special regulations somehow fixed on defenders, they're not the only ones, 17 is the category of those who are in that special, special regulations of pensioners, there are about 178,000. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] I don't think there's any reason that this, that this is arranged, has a rule on how to determine the amount of funding provided by the Republic of Croatia in the state budget would cover part of the pension system obligation, especially if we take into account that another billion, probably 7-8 billion kunas are spent on pensions actually on the outflow from the pension system budget for those pensioners who went according to normal meaning rules. The proposed possibility of reducing the age limit for the period of parental duty is not particularly acceptable because I say it leads to early retirement and a short stay on the labour market, and our goal is to be as much together as possible in the labour market system that we actually have the largest pension. Also the change in the method of calculating the value points in the use of maternity leave cannot be accepted for the reason that the mitigation of the difference in pension rates in one way is already said several times, compensated by the additional period of 6 months. I don't think it's possible to even change the calculation of the value points in determining the height of the disability pension or the rate of 21 years because.../incomprehensible/... at an earlier age, it's compensated by the added duration that's been solved means depending on the age of 50 or I don't know from 55 to 60, so I don't think there's any need for this either. And what is important is that the proposed solutions increase the expenditure of the pension system without indicating how to provide the necessary additional resources for 2020-2021 and therefore it is difficult to accept simply this proposal to amend and supplement the law. When the time comes, and it will be in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201933	Thank you, too. You have two replicas. The first replica, Mr. Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201934	Dear colleague Karlic, you say it is easy to write laws, suggest which cost a billion, a billion 200, but do we have the right to create injustices against people who are together raising children, suffering to live, looking forward to marriage together for 70 or 80 years to contribute to the pension system and when one dies, the one who survives goes into poverty. Do we have the right to verify so much all these years, all these decades in Croatia to earn contributions as one, as one obligation, as one compulsory, mandatory investment for age, the future when we are old, powerless, sick, etc. And who gives us the right to produce poverty in this way that may not have been so expressed over the past few years, but it's certainly taken a wave that can't be put up with.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201935	Thank you. Mr. Karlic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201936	Thank you. Mr. Hrelja, I think that we are the second pension pillar in some way helping to avoid this very poverty because that part, the second part of the pension, means the second pension column, can be inherited by this one, and the first part is that if a person experiences the death of his spouse, they can choose if the spouse's pension is better to choose actually the one that is greater and thus reduce that possibility.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201937	Mr. Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201938	You said that this is essentially good suggestions, but that it is small and irresponsible to suggest if we haven't found and that we never actually find that billion or more resources for some solutions that are acceptable to everyone and that they will be discussed and accepted when the time comes. And let's just say how much I keep track of this is never the time. Therefore, it should be borne in mind that these proposals from fellow Mrsic were proposed in the 10th month last year, long before the crown of the crisis, before anything, when the government boasted of the historically high, high this revenue budget, stability, small debt, never the lower interest, and I think that was the perfect time for this period, the budget was never higher, and the government gave a negative opinion on this law at the 11th month last year. I will now elaborate everything in my individual debate, but if we go through this logic, it is never the time because there is obviously no will in our society to solve the problem of the sustainability of the pension system.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201939	Thank you. Mr. Karlic, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201940	I think that the pension system, the system is very well solved, especially after this pension reform was made a year ago and that many things have been corrected, that it is much more just. I didn't say that this is, that these are good suggestions, but that each of us can make proposals that will lead to the costs raised by one billion kuna. That's what's important, and of course we all know what's wrong with these proposals and why we can't accept them.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201941	Mr. Sasa Djujic has a debate now.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201942	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, so here I am again at the beginning to say that I will support this bill and I believe that all the solutions that my colleague Mrssic has proposed here are essentially going towards correcting a certain injustice that our people, insurance companies in the pension system, are experiencing for one reason, because of some injustices in this system let's say so. My colleague Mrsic here has set out a series of things that should be corrected and corrected by these injustices, and here I will say once again, who I said earlier and colleagues that his colleague Mrsic referred this proposal to the parliamentary procedure in the 10th month of last year, so when the financial conditions in the Republic of Croatia were much, much better than today, in a much better situation with the never-filled budget after the government's pension reform and now these proposals are coming again because the government dropped them in its reform where you did some things but a lot of these injustices from this pension system to our citizens remain. And I think that the pension system with the healthcare system is one of the systems in the Republic of Croatia that should be solved and should be dealt with in such a way as to be fair and sustainable. You are now going to do a survey among our citizens especially here I will tell my generation, so your generation of state secretaries most citizens will say, and I will probably never expect a pension, except that I will have to work long enough, until the question will be the means for my pension. I think that such awareness of our citizens should change, and we can change it by correcting the injustices that are happening through the pension system. So, there are people who work their whole lives out in, in, in, in contributions to this fund, the first pillar, the second pillar, now the third pillar that I think is best solved by all these pillars, here and I'm thinking about activating it because I think it's one good thing, and then there's retirement and then someone after 30-35. The staff and those who were in good positions, with good incomes, good salaries, means not that anyone says you have a small salary, so your contributions were small, so your pension is small, it can't be big, but people with good pensions have very, very low pensions today after 30-35. Internship. And this second pension column, it's a living scam, it's such a scam against people who today have, like, 60 or 65. And then they have to choose options, not automatically inherit all the funds from the second pillar, but they have to choose, fathers take up themselves until the age guaranteed pension, pension supplements, fathers take part of the funds, and then schedule the part to 5 or 10 years, but in all the maths, however you draw the line at the end they lose 40 to 60% of the money they paid, you pay in that second column, because then the state pays first, the poor tax on that part, fixed, not fixed, so you pay a whole life tax on contributions, you pay taxes all the time, and then you have this kind of pension where you take away from your right, then the state breaks your tax on it again. That's not fair, that's not fair. And on the other hand, what colleagues say all the time about pensions under special conditions so-called. It can't come from the same bag. That can't come out of the same bag. So, if the state has given someone benefits to certain laws and I don't mean politicians, but I also think about defenders, firemen, cops and all those in the state doing responsible jobs or giving something to the state, so the state has made sure that they have decent receipts at their age, that's okay, and I'm not against it, but it has to come from the state budget. You can't do that from that package where people, because of their work and work, pay their fees. And that's why we have this system one employee of a pensioner. It's unsustainable. In the long run, it's unsustainable, and it takes finally making that political decision, and let's say let's do it, let's do it, and then start in that direction, and not talk when better times come. I get the feeling that our pensioners in the Republic of Croatia are like culture, the last hole in the player, he's, like, taking care of them last. So here goes the cuttings first by culture, so the pensioners, always the ones who care about them, that's it. So, that, that consciousness needs to change, our citizens feel it. Here, I'm running out of time, I'm sorry, I might still pick up if I feel the need. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201943	Thank you very much. I'm sure there'll be a need, you'll see. Mr. Bacic's a replicator for you, so there's an immediate need, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201944	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I don't know if I've heard you well, so I apologize in advance if I haven't, but if I've heard correctly you said that part of the pensions paid under special laws should provide funds in the budget so as not to charge the contributions that should be the basis for paying off pensions. If it takes 18 billion kuna to pay all pensions in the Republic of Croatia on an annual basis, and for these pensions that you're talking about somewhere around 2 billion kuna, someone can deny me if it's not true, so I don't know if you are, do you understand that it isn't, that it is not, not only that these 2 billion but another 16 billion is being allocated from the state budget in order to be able to pay off pensions in the Republic. So as well as those... What? [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] Well, the state budget is set aside for those pensions that are according to special law.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201945	Mr. Djujic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201946	It doesn't stand out. I think that one who has acquired a pension, a kuna pension allowance or a total mass under the rules laid down by this high home, the law or the state of that country must finance exclusively and from the state budget alone, whether or not necessary. So that's fair enough. So, colleagues Bačić, here you have the right to a preferential pension, you probably have an internship for a long time, I haven't studied it, but knowing you and your work you probably have earned with your contributions, and if your pension in the total mass is more than 200,00 kn because of this, let's say, the privileged part, and this is the majority you've earned through this, then that 200,00 kn must be from the state budget, not the whole pension, because it's fair and it should be, and it can't be the one who contributes because of his work that part of the funds goes to those who have earned certain rights to some merit, so that I don't realize here that someone has the right, the right to do something, they all have the right.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201947	Thank you. Mr. Branko Bacic has his own hearing now.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201948	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, the esteemed secretary of state, the esteemed colleagues and colleagues. The peace system is one of the crucial systems in countries on which the organisation of which the provision of funds depends is large, a large number of residents of a state. We have it somewhere around 1/3, a little less than the population is practically retired, about 1,244,000 for which about 43 billion kuna is allocated on an annual level. Well, therefore, Mr Djujic has gone, but in my replica, I have made it clear that those funds that the state must ensure to pay for pensions under special regulations, which often represent the difference between the pension it has provided for its contributions and the ones that you receive under special regulations, is in the budget in any case not to be singled out, but is allocated 8 times more, 9 times more than that of 1 244,000 pensioners in the Republic of Croatia receiving pensions. The second thing I wanted to say is that at this point, the Republic of Croatia is somewhere at the level, I mean on average EU Member States when it comes to the retirement system relative to GDP levels, it's about 10.5% of GDP is allocated to pensions in Croatia, which is acceptable, acceptable and which doesn't make us a specific country compared to other countries. For example, in this crisis, Croatia will also single out, somewhere around 10% of GDP, so all that the state in this crisis stands out to preserve jobs, liquidity, to preserve business activities will stand out, I say at the level that is allocated annually to the entire pension system. This is very important and it is necessary, especially to highlight. In the past three and a half years this government has, pensions have increased by about 12% and a minimum pension by 15%. So by its work, by your actions, so if you're going to do pension reform and everything that's been done, tax reforms have allowed such a growth in pensions, which is much more than in the previous years before this government. I have looked at what Mrsic has suggested, he has already said something about it and his colleague Karlic, which is at an annual level about a billion and 100, billion and 120 million, which should enable and provide additional funding in the budget for this year and next year. These are not small funds, that is, what Djujic said earlier, is, it is true that Mrsic proposed this law 6 months ago when we didn't even know about this crisis, but still even then and today, these are not small funds, it significantly increases the total allocations for the pension system, which should either be allocated from the budget or through a contribution to pension insurance provided by the Pension Insurance Office in the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, it is something that needs to be taken into account especially at this time when we are talking about the need to secure funds for payment and wages in the public sector, to pay out pensions, to pay out the support provided to all, or somewhere around half a million employees in Croatia, or to 10,000 entrepreneurs affected directly by this crisis. As for the proposal relating to women who have children and the reduction of working life, or the time spent at work, I think that this measure that the government has proposed is more acceptable, I think it is better because somewhere for two children, it assumes when they retire 2% of the pension increase, and on the other hand also applies to fathers, if, clearly, they are beneficiaries of pensions. Therefore, when I compare both the measure and the measure that Mrsic has proposed and which we have already adopted through pension reform, it seems to me that this measure is more acceptable. Well, first of all, I understand in that sense the reasons why the government refused to accept this amendment to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201949	Thank you, too. There's a replica. There's a replica? Where are they? I can't see them. And only Sasa Djujic, please, Mr. Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201950	Thank you very much. You are a skilled politician, an old fox, and often when a man replicates and asks a question, you usually answer what a man has not asked you and you are skillfully avoiding answers. So I'm going to ask you specifically now, just tell me if you think that this pension system that we have in Croatia today, with all these changes that the government has been doing for the last 3 years fair and fair to people who have been working for 30, 35 years and they end up going into retirement for the amount they have retired. Is it fair today and whether these proposals by Mrssic correct a certain part of the injustice or whether they are completely meaningless and unrealistic? Here, just that, specifically.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201951	Answer, Mr. Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201952	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Col. Djujic, the pension reform that was proposed was encouraging and wanted to keep as much insurance as possible in the work relationship as possible because the fact that according to the data, I would like it to be singled out, that in Croatia, the pensioner who went to full pension achieved 70% of the average salary. Make 70% of his salary he made while working in the system, in a working relationship. So it's not a little bit. I think that's a lot. .../incomprehensible/... Yeah, yeah, 40 years of internships cost you an average pension of 70% of his salary. That'd be good if we had to do it again in the data. That's not small, I know it'd be better if it was more, but if you retire full-time, you make 70% of your salary. That's about the data I received when we discussed pension reform. I'd like to, if it were even more, but we have small pensions because the average pensioner has less than 30 years of work experience. And then there's a small pension. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201953	Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you very much. Let's go. Can I leave while you're arguing or what? Okay. Mr. Sasa Djujic will now state the position of the SDP Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201954	Well, here at the end, on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, I will say that we will support this proposal once again and that we believe that these proposals by our colleagues Mrsic are correcting a large part of the injustice against our citizens and I will stress that this part, that Mrsic proposed 6 and 7 months ago in a significantly better economic situation, but here, I will now refer to this final debate by colleagues Bačić. For example, my colleague Bacic has now said who achieves a full internship has 70% of their salary, I would like to see from the total number of pensioners, how quiet it is with a full internship. So how much is it? So, no more socialism today, my colleague Bacic. There's no socialism for someone to come to work at 18 and then work 40 years on that job. It's rare Fridays. So, uh... I don't know. I don't know. You can. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Well, here she is, okay, let her deny me. I don't know how quiet there are in Croatia who have worked So we're discussing this bill, Mr. Vice President. [[Intruder Radin: What are you discussing, whether there is or no more socialism, I do not understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201955	I didn't understand because you're discussing directly with Mr. Bacic, whether he has or has no socialism. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201956	No, I'm saying, no, it's in the context of my debate that there's no more socialism Now, that's what I'm saying. [[And that, well, I think.]] Here, let's say, someone in socialism would start working at 18 and work up to 50, 60, maybe less, and he was safer, relatively safer than he is today if he didn't stay busy. And today, my people, here we are, now we're in a situation overnight, how many people are out of a job. [[Intruder Radin: I take note.]] So there's no more stability so that someone can start working at 18 and know they're going to be 40 years old. Or what do I want? It doesn't matter now. Comrade Bačić, you may have had a chance with your reform, perhaps, to move those borders, but not in a way that you moved them more so that people had to work even more than 67 years, but maybe it could have been reduced a little bit so that people lived better. But mostly, the pension system in the Republic of Croatia, I will repeat again, with all these changes and reforms, and in the end, you have received signatures against the reform that you have proposed from a large number of Croatian citizens, and you have finally given up, it is not a waste, so we are going back to that story now. What people do, no one understands what you're saying is great. So you're saying, everything's great, this government is doing great, we're proposing great solutions, only people don't understand it, they can't understand it. So there's obviously some kind of communication problem or people's understanding, or everyone's being stupid, so they don't understand. But today's pension system isn't fair and it's not fair. And this sentence of the Intergenerational Solidarity Fund itself is just what it's called, there's no "s" in solidarity. At least from what I've seen and from what I understand. And once again, my colleague Mrsic made a very good proposal that has a whole series of things inside that correct certain injustices, and I'm sorry that the government refused and rejected it in the 11th month. last year when the financial situation was much better in Croatia. If the Government had then given a positive opinion on these proposals so that today we discuss it, so look, the circumstances have changed, the budget is getting weaker, we have a crisis, we have a fall in income, let's talk, and maybe if it were generated or if it were to change part of these wishes because today is not the time, I would understand it but the Government already in a great situation for the Croatian state, financially said no, and then for these proposals, Mrssic, and then I see there was actually no will to correct these particular injustices. With all the respect of what the government has done in these 3.5 years, here, with all this, but there is no, I do not feel a real desire to get rid of the pension system in Croatia and make it fair. Here, you're doing these polls to people now, every little research on TV, so somebody do some research amongst the pensioners how happy they are with the pension system in the Republic of Croatia and young people, my generation as far as they think they'll be safe through this pension system, how many they're going to make a pension, and how much they can sleep peacefully to know that they're going to see that pension. We're talking about emigration, a large part of the young people going out to other countries just because they're not even getting paid, but to get a pension. Let's say, in this Ireland where a large number of people go, there if you're doing five years in continuity, regardless of what you're doing, you have guaranteed a minimum pension of 800 euros. So I talked to my classmates, they'll go there, they'll work for five years, they know they've got 800 euros, so they'll come back to Croatia. He's got a minimum of the one he's got. In Croatia he will not have 40 years of employment and retirement from today's perspective, he will not. That's what we have to change. That's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201957	Thank you very much, Mr. Djujic. Now also final, Mr. Silvano Hrelja will speak in front of the Club of Representatives of HSU, SNAGA, Independent Representatives and New Politics, please welcome Mr. Hrelj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201958	I just love it when the debate breaks down and then we start to get systematically bad and arbitrary data. We understand, it doesn't pay the state $18 billion more than what is collected for contributions because there's good, which is for charity, but for why it's committed to existing laws. So a total of 6 billion is worth 170 000 pensions under special regulations, of which approximately 3 to 3.5 billion are covered by contributions, the rest is not covered. The state also committed to 250 000 pensions of pensioners who were not fortunate to live with an employer where their salaries were high than their payments of contributions below the minimum pension, so now it is about 70 kn a year of internship, and pays for them the state as a social effect and social protection, category of the lowest pension of a billion kuna. And 6 billion is the transitional cost of transferring 5% of the contributions to II. Retirement column. Now, let's say it's II. Retired 50 years ago, he would've given me a family pension debate today or what would've been in II. The column would be hereditary? Bi, but we have an inheritance of intergenerational solidarity and we have to stick to it and improve it, therefore, we need to create the Institute of Family Pensions. And you're deposing yourself that we have a million 250,000 pensioners is wrong. We have a million 250 round or approximately payment of pensions of which 160,000 either doesn't live here or still has one part of the pension from Europe, from other countries, so these are exchange pensions under international regulations. So let's not play and let's just say how much we have today, pensioners who have only worked under the Pension Insurance Act and have the right, we have 970,000, and they are in our focus of interest and their family pensions are in the focus of our interest because the family pensions of these others will either connect to this law or they already have the right to family pensions and to the pensions of academics and police officers, etc., so that's what's being talked about in this law, don't talk about anything else. I did not finish as I discussed before on behalf of the club about the content of this law, I did not end up in the part that the nonsens happened that in 2008 we abolish 0.15% per month of further work in the world for those who went into retirement with 60/41 so we recognized them as a long-term internship to go without a pension. And why didn't we continue to motivate them to stay at 0.15 per month of further work in the world, why didn't we motivate them to stay to get 4.5% after five years of higher retirement, to collect 46 years of internship, why? No, we have rewarded those who have gone or who will work from 65th to 70th forgive and not a little but 0.34% per year of internship. So I can get a 20.4% increase in pension, that's how Branko is mine, that's right, I know what I'm talking about. Those who work after 65 are pardoned judges, doctors, lawyers etc., etc., this measure is in force, this absurd I cannot understand, I cannot understand that those people who are younger, who could contribute to being in the economy are not stimulated to stay in the world of work, and we stimulate these after 65. Well, of course the work activities are more pronounced and the work skills from 60th to 65th than from 65th to 70th, that's what I mean to everyone in this assembly clearly. This is where it wants to be corrected, and that is why we will, among other things, support this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201959	Mr Branko Bacic also concluded on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201960	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Respected secretary of state, respected colleagues and colleagues. I can agree with you that it is ungrateful to even discuss in a way that talks about a pension system that has its own dubiosis, its legacy and where pensions are low. To defend anything, which in the beginning means no increase in pensions is not good and there is no grateful position where you can say you don't need to do anything, which in one year's next year would mean about a billion and 120 million more in the pension system. But that aside, but on the other hand, we have to be accurate and accurate when we're talking about an existing system. It is also not good here from this pay phone to display information to do as much as possible by adopting such a law as necessary and necessary. I'm not saying this to Mrsic, but Mr Djujic asks me for information that is very easily verifiable, available and accurate that he publishes and has HZMO, which says that the average pension in Croatia is just over 2,800 kuna. But it should also be said that this pension includes an average pensioner who is 30 years old. When he has a full-time internship, then that pension increases significantly, and I said, so I know a number of my friends who now, at 60 years of life, are going to retire on Korčula at a shipyard in a company that regularly paid their entire working life exact contributions and taxes according to the wages paid to them, and all in all order are those with a full-time internship because they started working at 17, 18 years 19 in their 60 have a full-time job experience of 41 years, these are pensions over 4,500 kuna in a company that is easy to check. I'm talking, and that's about 70% of their salaries that they made in that same shipyard until yesterday when they retired. Therefore, this is the correct data and is the correct fact that the average minimum pensions are around 1,800, but their average employment rate is 26 years. Therefore, I claim pensions are small, often and insufficient etc., etc., but then we need to talk about accurate data. And when we talk about what Mrsic has proposed here, I think that the one who ran this system for 4 years is very well aware of how much pensions are allocated in Croatia under special regulations and in that part which these same pensioners receive on the basis of contributions while paying for their work while they have done and paid for their contributions and how much it is necessary to allocate the total amount of these funds to the state from the state budget. So it's known that somewhere around 2 billion I don't know and 700 million is the state should say that it's clear that what counterpart Djujic said, those pensions she prescribed by law and that she made a commitment to herself, as Mr. Hrelja said, we have to allocate about 2 billion and 800 million kuna. But to do a survey in the state as much as it takes for pensions that we call privileged, not pensions according to special regulations as they are properly called, and it's usually just us Parliamentarians and others, maybe no one has ever mentioned academics without speaking any other professions, then it's about six billion kunas or six billion kunas for those pensions. And I think that we are here in HS regardless of which political parties we come from when we talk about it, performing from the position that the state provides for it in the state budget, that's a lot, I agree. I believe that's a lot, and that when you tell someone that for pensions under special regulations, it's going to be 2 billion and 800 million kunas that it's a lot, but that's exactly what we have to do, and that's how we do it. Therefore, in this time when we are faced with a crisis like this, when we will have to single out of the state budget only for the last 3.4 months to all these measures that we have prescribed in the April package, we will single out almost an annual level and an amount for all pensions in Croatia, then it is one billion how much more difficult this law seems to me very, very much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201961	Thank you very much. And now, finally, on behalf of the promoter, my colleague Miranda Mrsic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201962	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Well, I'm glad that there's been a discussion and that we're all aware that there are things that need to be changed in the pension system and someone who's been a minister for four years is very well aware of what the system looks like and what should be changed in the system. At that time when there is funds to change it then it should be done then, and not at a time when there is definitely no funds then at that time it is very difficult and complicated to do anything in the pension system because changes in the pension system are not seen immediately next year but are seen for 5, 6 or 10 years. But let's start with this famous story about pensions under special regulations, privileged pensions first to clear up the issue of defence pensions and these Partisan pensions, I think it's a lot of things that try to impute. From 2005 to 2010 the number of defence pensions increased from 35,000 to 70,000 that was at a time when HDZ was in power. And the number of Partisan pensions, to call them that since 2014, was 20.401, and now 9,798 if I was able to find the right numbers, so half as logical as biology makes its own. And out of those 9,798 Partisan pensions, the family is 7,755 because they are inherited, it's 1,400 old, it's 321 disabled, and then people start to wonder what are the partisans who have retirement pensions or disability pensions. Most of them were El Shatt's children, my parents were in El Shatt and Mother and Father, and Bačića was in El Shatt, half of Korčula was in El Shatt, so all the children who were in El Shatt have the right to a martial pension, that's how they were then 70, 80, 90 years old and that pension is being conducted as a fighter pension, a pension from NOB. That's the kind of truth we have to keep repeating to calm these fierce right-handed. Partisan pensions are inherited as well as defence pensions so that of these 70,000 defenders 56,174 are defence pensions, and 14,233 are family and successors. For that, however, we stand out about all pensions under the special regulations of about 6 billion. At the same time, it is forgotten that we have 6,782 HVO pensions for which we have singled out 240 million kuna with Medved's law that came into force 1.1.2019 that figure goes up to 350 million kuna. So, it's a little bit forgotten. And what's worse is we have about 10,000 new demands for defense pensions almost 30 years after the war. And all of this burdens the system and all the time we say that we are missing 12 billion in the system and when I speak from this pay phone and colleagues that we say that this is the problem of the pension system because it gives a "false picture" that in the pension system we lack money because what my colleague Hrelja was saying, and I have been repeating all along, that the state has made it possible by its laws that a certain part of Croatia has the right to have some kind of privileged pension under special regulations and that money from a non-retirable system should be provided for that. Mirovinski only leaves on the part that's related to the contributions. The example is defence pensions, so now you're running them under a pension system all the time, but before last year or before last year, when it was supposed to increase the percentage of defence contributions because NATO is demanding that we have 2% of GDP in defense, then these pensions were put into the defence ministry's budget where they were supposed to be, to artificially increase that percentage to say here we are approaching NATO's standards of isolation, how much we allocate funds for defence. As for pensions and what is now Mr. Bacic and the esteemed secretary of state boasted with 12% increase in Croatia at the same time, pensions increased by 24%. Now, that means that you had to do what we were saying, you had to correct the Swiss formula because obviously that pensions don't grow with salary increases, which is in that formula, whether you're going to tie it to pay increases and pensions are going to be tied to pay increases, which is good at this point when wages are growing, but what when the crisis and wages are not growing, and inflation is growing, then what are you going to do with pensions. That's why the Swiss formula is one compromise between this, but apparently this 12% is well below the 24% of what the wages have been growing. The government has now covered its ears in April because now the secretary of state does not raise to the biggest bells how much pensions grow because pensions have grown 0.7% 27 kuna. You called us, I sat on this side, you called us as it grows pensions only 27 kuna, not for bread,...it's a formula that's in the Pension Insurance Act that's what it is. Now that in April it grew 0.7% and 27 kuna, nothing, peace, let's move on. So I wouldn't brag about the fact that pensions went up 12% but I'd say it's in line with what's under the Pension Insurance Act. If they had grown 24% so the state had found a way to add another 12% and then I would have said, you've raised your pensions. Why am I saying all this? Why does the pension system need to be cleared out of this? If that difference between the contribution and the pension funds were smaller, then it would allow us to get to the point of raising the current value of the pension because it's the key. If we raise the current pension value by 10%, the secretary of state knows it's huge money, but it's a real increase in pension. Will that ever happen? I don't know. But in 2010, when the Ivica Racan coalition was in power, that was the first time pensions were raised in nominal terms. As for the separation of pensions, and that's the point we've been saying all along, that we're not against the defenders, but well HDZ and the team used it, so we got tents and gas bottles, but that's how we're going to make the pension system transparent so that then we can make a move, among other things, give family pensions, among other things, give more money when we're going to retire, and that's something that you were supposed to be and you did what you did because it was in your interest and now you're obviously in the problem of that. I wouldn't bid on this part that's tied to those who have 40 years of employment having 70% salary, they've had it forever, from the time of socialism to now. And if you look at the historical data of your pension salary when you retired and at the time of socialism it was 70, 80, 90% for the internship, so for 40 years of work, and that's what's left now. And at the time of the greatest crisis, it was sustained. Therefore, it is something that is a fact for the Croatian pension system, but the problem is that we have too few people who have retired from 40 years of employment. Then we go back to privatization, to the robbery of the '90s when a lot of people retired. Mr. Bacic will immediately replicate it. People were forced to retire young people and drive them into the pension system, and so now our pension system looks the way it is. But if you look at the latest data, that's not what the secretary of state said, last year the average age of Croatian pensioners was 32 years and 8 months. So we're going towards that, the Germans are at 37 we're probably going somewhere at 35, so we're not far from Germany. But this is what we wear as a legacy of the past, and we will never be able to remove it. On the other hand, for the last 30 years of the task force that counts, the defense attorneys have also been listed. We've also counted the defenders in this section. The ability for defenders to go into disability pensions has removed one large number of nearly 56,000 or nearly 60,000 people who have been able to work. It was probably the simplest thing to buy an electoral body and thus ensure that you have a clearly stable part that will vote for you. Here I mention another problem that will arise, which is the problem of the Bear's law on the rights of defenders. It is already visible because, under this law, all those who have some defensive training when they retire have the right to a guaranteed minimum pension or have the right to an add-on which clearly increases the amount needed for pensions. And you have to do it again from the budget, so you won't be able to make a contribution. There were 28,000 so last year 42,000, 2014 was 28, last year 42,000 and that will grow. Somewhere it counts that there will be about 250,000 who have defensive status that have continued to work that they will then have that part in their pension, which is clear that they will have a burden on the pension system. It's all the things that we've recognized in this law and we wanted to see besides those things that are waiting for us here in advance and to solve problems in the first place family pension because I think we need to solve it. Our pensioners are below the poverty line, especially when they lose another pension. With two at the poverty line, and when they lose one, they're thick below the poverty line and I don't understand why the government didn't want it. I find that finding a little strange for me to read again, I ask that the secretary of state never mention it again, because it is said that "Croatia has one of the mildest conditions for achieving a family pension and, with the Republic of Slovenia, the highest percentage for achieving a family pension of 70%". Croatia is independent of the EU as regards the pension system, we ourselves determine what our pension system will be and whether it is the easiest, whether it is liberal and this, who cares. It is the concern of our citizens, us here, but it is not the EU's concern and the EU will never tell us what and how we will do with our pension system. So it's unusual for me to have this argument that the government doesn't accept that when one mate dies, the other will inherit 50% of the family's pensions or the model proposed by a colleague named Hrelja who goes the same way. So we recognize the problem, so we have two ways to solve it. This is transparent by the government that a billion kuna is missing for it. No, the thing is, when I gave the law, so the law was given in the 10th month there was a time for that part to be included in the budget and budget projections, therefore, it's just an excuse for the government why she didn't want to accept this bill. I hope we've given these specific proposals to the government or at least some ideas, although it's too short a time to resolve anything. As far as national compensation is concerned, I would not call them a national pension, me and my Democratic Party very often stand on that it has nothing to do with the pension system and that it should not even be related to the Ministry of Labour and the pension system because it has nothing to do with the pension system and it is part of the social package and must be part of the social system. Let's not call it a national pension because it has nothing to do with it then we're just going to detimize people into the labour market because it says why I would work when I get to a certain age I'm going to get so much money from the state, so that's also a detiming measure. You should be very careful with her, and especially as a large part of these people who are running for national pension actually already have a certain part of the social system, so either social assistance or something else. I'm sorry that here's the government had no ear to accept this bill, but we'll see how things behave in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201963	The first line has Mr. Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201964	A colleague Mrsic is always easy to find excuses and excuses can always be not the time, it costs a lot, there is no money. And excuses could be, for example, if you felt a sense of will with the government or if you felt that they really really wanted to change something without it being a situation. But by the government's actions and by answer, let's say why you don't accept these suggestions, I don't have the impression that the government wants to change these things and these problems at all. And you mentioned this part where the introduction said that Croatia has the most flexible conditions and how we compare with some countries. Why not compare ourselves with those who, for example, are better than us, why not set this as an example? We don't have it, but we do. Here, Vice President, you correct me, in Italy, when it comes to family retirement, one of the spouses when he dies has his pension and 70% of the spouses, not or, but here, correct me if I'm wrong. Why not set the example in government, for example, we strive to do so. that in Croatia they also have pensioners when one of the spouses dies both are paid in the state. So I think that should be the way of thinking, and not this we're the best at this, so that's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201965	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201966	Thank you very much, Vice President. Yes, if we can give for 6,782 members of HVO somewhere around 350 million kuna a year then we can probably find money in the pension system for family pensions. Therefore, the money there is only in the system to rationalise things, the state needs to become cheaper and we know it ourselves, and not that we're collapsing in just as much employment as we can in the counties and cities and that's the key to all of this. But as far as family pensions are concerned, I think it's something that we in the opposition, and HDZ should do before national retirement because national pension is a national benefit, not a pension is about the social welfare, and I don't know why the government is now going that way, and family pension is something that needs to be done under emergency and money will be found. If it's for the HVO, it'll be for this.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201967	Thank you. Mrs. Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201968	.../The speaker is not included.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201969	Here you go, Mr. Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201970	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues Mrak Taritaš, so it is a very simple reason, HDZ is buying votes with it and it is very clear because the abolition of retirement was only to buy a defence population that felt insecure that their pensions were in some way threatened even though it was very clear by law that there was no threat to it. Defence pensions de facto remain the only pensions under special regulations and they will grow, all others will fall because the first biology makes its own and there are no new requirements. We have abolished parliamentary pensions here on my proposal and the proposal of the government of Zoran Milanovic, so there are no parliamentary new pensions. There are no pensions related to those related to Partisans and trade unions, the homeowners, the mouthpieces of all those involved in the pension system. The military and the police are going according to a special regulation that has nothing to do with this, they're professional pensions, so they're going to remain pensions from... professions only defenders who grow 30 years after the war.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201971	Mr. Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201972	My respects. Mr Mrsic, look you said that you would have to correct and align the formula etc., and you were working on that formula and I was working with you on that formula she was only modified to apply directly now since 2018, and not with the delay and I know that the formula is good, but there is another problem. There are 260 slightly smaller thousands of lowest pensions, there's a stampede on the labour market, there's no payment of contributions and there's no pensions, and you can't correct it with the formula alignment. You have to do something else, you have to cancel the penalization for those lowest ones to grow, these people they're the most endangered in the pension system. And another provocative question, give me a former minister, tell me, there's a category of members of the Homeland Army, but give me a way to teach me where there's a precise definition of who's a member of the Croatian Homeland Army, and the rights are inside?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201973	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201974	Thank you very much. Comrade Hrelja, we worked together on the formula, it's not ideal but I just wanted to warn you that now that there's a growing salary so much that the formula doesn't hold water exactly to the end, it corrects the injustices, but not to the end and that you should think about ways to solve it. One way is to question the lowest pensions and pensions of the lowest pensions they are the most threatened and that is the problem that this government should address, but not through the national pension system. As far as the Homeland Army is concerned, the natives, the Ustashas, all those who were on the opposite side, and they weren't Partisans, but it doesn't say anything. So in those papers enough that someone confirmed to you that you were in the homelands then and then, two witnesses, you got a pension as a member of the Homeland Army. In this way HDZ put the Ustashas and everyone else in it, he put them under that category because it simply couldn't solve these people differently.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201975	I remind you of the déjà vu method of eating yes. Mr. Bacic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201976	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Your colleague Mrssic explained here how good it is that as many long-term pensioners as possible are able to do because it automatically increases pensions. And you, as a minister, have advocated that from the year 2038 or the seventh year, you will go to retirement at 67 years of age to pursue a pension reform that has been on the trail of staying as much in the world of work as possible, to relax if I can say the pension system and make it sustainable, you have been the co-signator to make such a right and proper approach for me to abolish. And now we get that the basis of the referendum initiatives has changed the law in a way that has now been restored and abolished and your proposal that you signed, right? So that's what we're talking about when we're standing here after this pay phone.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201977	Thank you. Mr. Mrsic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201978	I don't know the click of the road I have to repeat Mr. Bačić, I signed the referendum initiative I'm not still standing on that I should have left what we left in law 2013. And that's how we could make people stay longer in the world of work. Your Minister Pavic set out on this road and destroyed what we agreed with both the unions and the social partners. So, once again, Mr. Bačić, I didn't sign the initiative to go to the referendum, and I'm asking you to remember if it's you from HDZ, you as club president, tell your people not to take that lie away because I'm still keeping my credibility. And as far as the law itself is concerned, you shouldn't have touched the Pension Insurance Act, and you only went to touch it for the defenders because the defenders squeezed you to get as many votes as possible from them.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201979	Thank you, Mr. Mrsic. That concludes the debate, and we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201980	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Pension Insurance Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 772. The promoter is Representative Miranda Mrsic. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Pension Insurance Act, which the Government does not support, please vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that the law has not received the required number of votes, 35 for, 2 abstentions and 75 against, so the law has not been passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201981	The next and final point today is: - Final proposal of the Law on the Completion of the Law on compulsory health insurance, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 859 Proposer is representative of Anka Mrak Taritash on the basis of Article. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia 172 Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent manner. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings, and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, in accordance with Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Health and Social Policy. The government delivered an opinion. And now Mrs. Anka Dark Taritash is going to take her word for it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201982	Thank you very much. The Honorable Vice President of HS, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I won't mind if I make fun of the doctors and the others, I can see that these strong forces are this doctoral, and we're the other ones who are still here, but you won't mind me making a joke. Here, we've managed to get the government's opinion today, and the truth is, the French is under the hammer, so at some point when I'm going to explain the proposal, I'm going to refer to it too. We made this proposal to amend and supplement the Law on 13 March 2020, which was Friday when the extended presidency of HS met and concluded that the Parliament will also work under certain conditions, only next week of Wednesday and Thursday were for Croatia's level of conditions. But we suggested this at the moment when the problem of self-insulation had already appeared as a serious problem. Already at one of the first presentations of Minister Beros, I think it was in Varazdin someone asked him when someone in the so-insulation received compensation for those two weeks amounting to 2.125 kuna and what he intends to do. And then there was some unfavorable answer that he would see, that he didn't know, that it wasn't from the vault of him that he would see everything else. What I am looking for today, and what I am looking for on behalf of GLAS, is this proposal to amend and supplement the Mandatory Health Insurance Act. I don't have to stress specifically that this proposal is related to the situation and the crisis caused by the coronary virus. One of the consequences of spreading or preventing the spread of the virus to many of our fellow citizens is the determination of self-insulation, not only because they are sick but because there is a suspicion of disease or the possibility that they are sick because the infection occurred in their nearest environment. People who are in self-insulation in a large number of cases and partly or completely disabling work. And that's where we come up with the problem that we wanted to solve with this proposal. What exactly is this about? It is that all those who cannot work or who cannot take sick leave during the prescribed self-insulation receive the monetary compensation of HZZO, this fee cannot be even greater than the budget base increased by 28% in full working time. Translated into a language that we can all understand more easily, it is in a month amounting to 4.257.28 kuna per month, and in two weeks self-insulation cannot be greater than the mentioned 2,125.00 kuna. In other words, a person who may or may not be ill, but by order must be at home for two weeks will receive compensation in this amount. What's the key problem here that we're proposing to supplement the law? The key problem is that such a provision fails to ask itself what its basic purpose is. In my opinion, the basic sense of self-insulation prevents spread or reduces the possibility of spread of contagion. And that's okay, that's the goal that's justified or at least we all agree that it's justified and that there's no dispute in that part. But the second question is, is this how you measure such a specific goal? My answer to that question, and that's why I'm proposing the law's addition is no. Certainly not without a visible risk that this measure will be implemented in different ways. It is very simple, a financial loss that causes certain people in self-insulation to unnecessarily increase the risk of spreading the disease, because of the fear of monetary damage they might try to avoid regulation or, in extreme cases, not adhere to it. That's what we've had for a little over a month and we've seen it. In fact, it is unnecessary to risk measures generally taken to prevent the spread of the virus and to put great effort and great state money into it. The reduced efficiency of these efforts due to such failures is an unnecessary risk that can ultimately only cost more than we set things right in the beginning. So, this proposal to supplement the law that I present to you determines that the remuneration for employees at the time of self-insulation is 100% of the base for salary fees. Such a provision is not unknown, with the Mandatory Health Insurance Act a fee of 100% is foreseen for example. for temporary incompetence due to work injury. So we don't even introduce any new solution that this law would make unknown, just one of the existing possibilities we apply in case of self-insulation. I am really interested, and this is whether during the self-insulation prescribed for medical staff or for nurses, doctors who are very threatened, are you applying this or are you applying a provision that would define that there is a topic of injury at work, so they had to go through their work into self-insulation, I wonder what it is that you have decided here and what is there to apply? It would be much more correct if we had it defined like this. Otherwise, I can't resist what they call the sirens so that little bit of the government's relationship, the government has declaredly requested from all of us a constructive approach and some kind of tacit support for some of the key moves at this time. It is a great demand of any government towards the opposition and the entirely honest work of the opposition is not that the government is helping or making life easier for it, exactly the opposite. And it would be very dangerous for an outbreak of the virus to disrupt these relations that are normal and necessary for the functioning of the democratic state. But the critical role of the opposition together with the critical role of the media is crucial, but nevertheless, when I say, I mean, of course, the entire opposition, we act constructively and responsibly, we try our proposals and ideas to contribute to the fight against the virus and to the mitigation of its consequences. But despite and that's why I said a declarative call, the government doesn't find our construction and our efforts on fertile soil. We're not even a millimeter away from old habits that can't go away just because it's an opposition proposal, and that's not good. And today here's another fresh one under the hammer we got the answer, the government was in session today, where the government is responding and proposing to HS not to accept the bill in question. And now the reasons why they say: "In relation to the said Government of the Republic of Croatia, it indicates that the applicant has not assessed the amount of funds necessary for the implementation of the proposed law or sources of funds from which the Institute would provide the necessary resources, and since the Institute has available certain resources for the cost of health care and financial compensation that the insured persons can obtain under compulsory health insurance and are already allocated under the activities of the financial plan for 2020, the institution will not be able to implement the proposed salary increase unless additional financial resources are provided in the State budget of the Republic of Croatia". Well, we didn't think it would be necessary to provide additional resources. We expected to really take our proposal seriously, we expected to really take care of it, even as much as the 13th of March we had announced a press conference to propose our proposal actually came from me because we asked for an emergency procedure, but compared to then, because there was this unfortunate crown on our door and somehow absolutely something that we didn't know how long it would take, or how long the dead in Croatia could be and how sick they might be, we said okay, we're not going to go with that press right now and we're just saying that we're asking the government to take care of everything that's going to happen. So, what kind of financial burden can it be? According to official data in Croatia, there were 13.670 people in self-insulation yesterday, a huge number if financials start to avoid the measure, and very little to make up for their full salary. So we have so many people you can know exactly what it's about and I'm looking at, reading, watching all of this seems to me that self-insulation is really an extremely good measure. Imagine a merchant, some who are self-insulating can do their job, can do their job from home, you who are doctors can't, someone who works with people who is a merchant can't. So it seems to us, and we're absolutely sure that this is a proposal that could have come across fertile soil, we wouldn't even mind if it was in that set of measures that the government had decided and said ok, we're going with it, we'd brag a little bit and said it was our proposal, but we absolutely support it. But it didn't happen because this relationship between position and opposition is an absolutely one-way street where if you support what the government has suggested then you're constructive, and if you don't support it then you're populist, and if you have some other idea and some other suggestion that you might get an explanation some time with a little more arguments, some time with a little less arguments, but you get an additional explanation. What we've already suggested here is something that seems to us that would be necessary to get rid of it just the same way, and these are the people who have decided to donate to an individual organ. So the person who donated her during the time she was on sick leave gets the same fee from the already mentioned amount that I mentioned several times, which is monthly at this time 4.257.28 kuna, when we are already proposing this amendment and supplementing the law then we decided to change that and because someone who decided to donate his kidney organ so all the general things that are possible, I think that during the time he was sick should have 100% compensation during that illness. My colleagues and colleagues, there are relatively few of us, and now thanks to my colleague, Djujic, there are few of us there are balances between doctors and all of them, but I would like to order the following from this pay phone again. This proposal is constructive, it's well-intentioned, it's thoughtful. It enables us to achieve a fundamental goal that we all agree on, which is to stop the coronary virus and correct one obvious injustice. I really don't see any reason not to accept it. If you want constructiveity and common sense on our part, I mean by opposition, then you must be prepared for constructiveity and common sense. Don't let at this time of the coronary virus, at this time when we don't all know what's waiting for us together, how much further this must go, that this relationship between the opposition and the ruling remains a one-way street. But it may also remain a one-way street in this assembly, but help our citizens, help, so self-insulation is certainly one of the good options, especially when we fight the unknown in the way it was done in the 19th century. So, by reducing our contact, that we have no contact with each other, that we're home. So this is one of the proposals that you can absolutely accept. You don't want to accept it because we've all changed in the time of this coronary virus. Don't let the only ones who haven't changed are the ruling HDZ and that you're stubborn, and you're ultimately stubborn about our fellow citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201983	Thank you, too. Mr. Djujic's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201984	Thank you very much. Comrade Mrak-Taritash, this is a good proposal, as well as a series of proposals that have come from the opposition during this period and indeed well-intentioned. However, I think that no proposal from the opposition, no, no opposition party in these months and a half days has been accepted by the ruling and I have the impression that some things were later accepted as proposals by the government and I have no problem with it and I will repeat again in this high house that this issue concerning all citizens, not left, right, the virus does not know the ruling and the opposition and that we should all act together, that everyone has good suggestions, but I'm afraid that the government is sending a bad message, and that's the story of the one-way street you're talking about. And what was I gonna say? You said you looked back on this government opinion that no additional funds were provided to the office, so it's just about to show up. Here, I read today a report by the director of the office saying that there are a lot, a lot less sick than last year, which means that a lot of money goes less on that sort of item and there will certainly be fewer items in the office from which this could be settled. But on the other hand, what you said yourself could have been found in the budget if you'd be willing to get rid of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201985	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201986	I kind of always think you should think about what the ultimate goal is. Is our ultimate goal really for people to remain, or for those who are prescribed self - isolation, in that self - isolation? Is it the ultimate goal of the state to make it financially possible for those two weeks to receive the compensation they need to receive? If that's the ultimate goal and I've said it and I can do it again. I'm not vain and we're not vain, so you could in that package of measures that were, the March that was so vague, but the April package of measures, April one, zero, could have happened with that proposal, we, I would've given up on this and said the government went with that proposal and did well. The stubbornness has never done anyone any good. So we here can use this payphone, we can use this assembly to exchange views, attitudes, and so forth. But behind this is now more than 1,800 people.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201987	Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201988	A colleague of Mrak-Taritash, so if you can find 40 million kunas for a hospital in Mostar, then the director of Mostara says ah they are not some money then you could probably find money and funds for this item, because HZO ends up in plus every year, so it's not in a minus, it's not huge funds, what Djujic said, it's less sick. But what's the same question that's going to happen in general with our system now that the crown is dropping and we see what's going to be the consequences of this, this blockade we've had over the past month. This is just one excuse from the government not to give a positive opinion on this even though any government and any reasonable health administration would give a positive opinion and change this. I hope there'll be some sense in the government or HDZ that if it doesn't go by this law then it goes the other way to change.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201989	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201990	Well, that's right. You know, when you give someone something away, they're the ones you give it to, they're not much of a money. I am sure that every single person in self-insulation who would receive half his salary in those two weeks instead of those 2,100,00 kn would absolutely understand what it's about. Here is no longer the relationship of the ruling and the opposition is that, this relationship which has not changed at any moment and we can suggest that today Wednesday, Thursday, 16 hours and 36 minutes, by ruling you say this wrongly, should be transitional and final provisions, we learned about it. But here's one constructive proposal that had all the elements to accept, but here's what I read for that reason is why it's not accepted. I had a little hope before noon, but hope left me behind a cabinet session.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201991	And at the end of the day, Mr. Cell.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201992	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Dark-Taritash, not everything is so black-and-white. On this side are all former ministers, except for fellow Djujic, but I hope that in some future perspective he will be one of the ministers, perhaps not in two months, but he is young enough, perhaps in 10 years. He'll still be young. So you're talking here about 1,800, so when you multiply it, it's about 30 million kuna, there you've stated that you don't need any extra funds. Of course, you can't just look at it like that. However, when we talk about health workers, let's say those who are now working on tours, this is not the mandatory health insurance law, but the labour law, where the employer pays full wages and thus the salaries are paid, so for March within health institutions. So the second question is for these others who, during self-insulation, can also work from home.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201993	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201994	I deliberately debated or had an argument on behalf of.../The speaker turned off/...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201995	If anyone, any of the representatives, doesn't have a representative of the board, then I can't even discuss them when they're gone. I'm opening a debate, Mr. Ivan Celic's first turn in front of the HDZ Representatives' Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201996	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, in January this year, the World Health Organization declared the outbreak of a new coronary disease a public health threat of international importance. The Republic of Croatia has very early started monitoring measures against returnees from affected areas with the aim of early detection of sick persons. The decision to declare the threat of an epidemic was made on March 4th by the minister and declared the epidemic March 11th. On that same day, the World Health Organization declared the pandemic COVID. Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic presented the first 30 billion kuna package on 24 March. The first most important measure was the unambiguous postponement of public taxation to tax bonds with difficulties, i.e. income tax, profit tax, pension and health insurance contributions for 3 months with the possibility of 3 months extension. In the April package, measures of the economy, which was primarily directed towards entrepreneurs, the government decided to increase their support in job conservation difficulties, costing all around 8.5 billion kuna for April and May. These are all measures that the Government is taking to preserve every job in these challenging and demanding times to help entrepreneurs overcome this crisis period. Due to the current epidemiological situation caused by the appearance of a new coronary virus in accordance with Article. The 39th wheel. 3. The mandatory health insurance law shall be the right to pay as one of the compulsory health insurance rights with the right to health care belongs to the insurance undertaking in relation to the use of health care from compulsory health insurance if it is isolated as a callinator or due to the occurrence of an infection in its environment. I must point out that the law nominates this part long before the occurrence of a coronary disease and the provisions of that law are applied when, for example, someone is a salmonella-squarer or a disease-morbilal virus, and now a new SARS-COV-2 coronary virus is listed in that group of infectious diseases. What needs to be pointed out, as I have already mentioned, so for those on the front line of the front line, let's say, that's what doctors, nurses, other medical staff, but also other healthcare professionals such as waitresses, are applicable. 95 of the Labour Act which regulates salary compensation, which says that for periods for which it does not work for justified reasons, the worker has the right to pay. So, in these situations where healthcare professionals work on tours and 14 days are at home or at those where self-insulation is determined because they have been in contact, this is where the article applies. 95, full pay is paid and that fee is therefore paid to the employer's burden. The application of decommissioned charges to HZZO burdens in these cases would seriously burden our system. And it's worth pointing out that no additional resources are provided in the emerging situation, which is what Mrsak-Taritash said, so 1,600 if we multiply it by 2125, that's about 30 million kuna somewhere. What Mrsic said for 43 million kuna, I must just say that I would recommend that if he did not read the text from Mr Miljenko Jergovic, then the question of what this would mean and how it would burden the KBC in Split, which is the only KBC from Dubrovnik to Zadar, should also be taken into account. Let's not pay attention to those who are currently running a hospital in Mostar, and it wouldn't, it wouldn't be appropriate to comment now because it's not about him, it's about people living in Mostar and the surrounding area. Here we could talk about the problem of the number of illnesses, one of the priorities of each insurance company, and so the HZZO is to destimulate the sick, and it is to be used in our country a few times and unfair abuses. Payment fee during isolation shall be paid to the insurance undertaking on HZZO's burden from the first day of application of the right to the art. No. 41st century 1. The mandatory health insurance law is based on a report on the temporary incompetence or prevention of work that the insurance undertaking submits directly to HZZO, with the application of the payment certificate issued by the employer. Given the currently relatively restrictive measures, HZZO is an exceptional situation, so that there is the possibility of submitting the request by electronic means without applying the report, so the insurance company that has identified the need for isolation by the competent epidemiologist, which will be informed by HZZO, is immediately referred to in isolation, and the selected doctor is obliged to notify it by telephone or e-mail. According to Art. Paragraph 2.5.7. The health insurance law, during the period of temporary incompetence due to isolation, belongs to the insurance undertaking the right to pay a salary of 100% of the pay base. So I'm going to take a brief look at this part of the transplant, and I think it's something that needs to be seriously thought about, in the long term, and I think HZZO should put it in the category in which the category is therefore, professional illness or injury at work in some of the following discussions. This government has chosen the life and health security of Croatian citizens and has taken measures that have been quite successful in limiting the spread of viruses in other countries in Europe and the world. We have also welcomed today, today Prime Minister Plenkovic presented three phases of the release of measures starting on 27 April. So, in addition to the health security priorities, of course the state should also take care of the economy and taking into account the overall context in which we are in, taking into account the principle of best interest both for the individual and for the community, but taking into account the fact that we are keeping the functional system, we believe that the existing measures do not contribute in any way to the spread of the infection of new coronary viruses because there is a question and personal responsibilities, therefore for those people who are infected, they should not go out. I believe that here, one of the reasons why Sweden went with such measures is that they have a much, much greater concept of personal responsibility in the Republic of Croatia and in this sense we should look to Scandinavian countries, but despite all this, the HDZ Representatives Club cannot support such additions to the Mandatory Health Insurance Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201997	Thank you, too. Mr Tomislav Panenić. He's gone. He's losing his right. Mr. Hrvoje Zekanovic. He's gone. He's losing his right. Mr. Sasa Djujic in front of the SDP Club. He's got it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201998	Of course he does. He's got it. Thank you very much. Here I am at the beginning of my debate saying that I, for example, I don't mind financing a hospital in Mostar, and I think even that funding should be further enhanced because there is no hospital in Mostar, where Croatian top doctors like dr. Paladin, when do you say HDZ chases them from Croatia? Then they wouldn't have anywhere to go if there wasn't a hospital in Mostar. So, let's say, I support that hospital independently of the principal because yet our top experts have somewhere else to help people and then a large number of Croatian citizens even go to treatment there. Okay, yeah, well, that's it, but let's just say he lost a thread, that there hasn't been this hospital in Mostar for a year and a half. [[/Intruder: In Pula, Mr. Djujic. In Pula, sir, Dr. Paladinov will work in Pula as well.]] But this, to get back on the subject, so as far as this proposal is concerned, the SDP Club will support this law of course, since we, too, have proposed some changes on this trail, but what I want to stress again with this proposal by colleague Mrak-Taritash is that he is good, realistic and committed in time, which is most important. So, long ago, when problems with people who have to be self-insulating have just come up, and I still don't understand why the government doesn't reject this proposal, but why it hasn't put these changes into some of its solutions before. And it could because many laws today that are in force and that have been in effect for up to a month have not been adapted to the situation in which Croatia, or where the whole world has found itself because none of us expected this, nor have we ever met in our lives with something like this, and then we changed some laws in our walk. And so these provisions that are here, under which laws are being implemented today, are not adapted to today's problems. Here's a colleague of Mrak-Taritash, and we too, many others in the public domain, have cited many of these reasons in this period, which is why it is a problem for people who are ordered by the state to be in self-insulation and it is not a problem that the state has ordered, but it is the interest of all citizens to really be there and be there until these 14, 15 days, to have such a ridiculous fee and much, much less their income. Then we had those encounters that, the situations that some people who enter Croatia lie about where they came from, that they were, that they were in contact with, that they would not have to end up in self-insulation, that they would lose their incomes and existential incomes and then lie about it and essentially endanger everyone else. And then the government instead of giving these people a proposal, to change this provision just like this so that these people can have a decent fee, the government wants to, say, solve this problem by tracking the population and cell phones, for example. Here, that was the government's answer instead of financial damage to those people, the government wanted to follow. Well, those aren't good suggestions, let's just say, and they're not good solutions. We're, like, last week here or maybe even this week, I'm not even sure now, this week, yesterday, we changed yesterday, we had the Foreign Law yesterday when we changed one, one technical provision that 30 days after the pandemic ended, these could be applied for by those, those foreigners whose licenses had expired. Two weeks ago we had three regarding IDs and documents one whole package of extensions of invalid documents practically. And that's an adjustment to the new situation. It's the same thing with this law and it's committed on time. So, a colleague said several times, in the second month before this blockade at all he was announced and we're all talking about it and what's best and you're ruling you're aware of this problem, but the government didn't do anything by it. I have the impression now that this is the only reason why this is coming from the opposition, and what the opposition is proposing is something, and that this is why it does not want to be accepted, and not that this should have been accepted today, neither yesterday nor yesterday, but two months ago it was going to be, we are now going to give in to measures, but practically by me, I don't even know how justified some things are in these discounts, how much they are exclusively the fruit of some pressure and situation, but we'll see, the time will show it. And I will point out again, so all this time the opposition has shown great responsibility for me, constructiveness with our proposals, we have supported all the proposals, 95% of the proposals of the ruling ones we supported because that is the way it should be because in the interests of all citizens, none of our proposals have been accepted, no amendments, no initiatives, no amendments to the law. Well, it's not like everything we've suggested is wrong. And not to say that the situation where we're in today is that this changes from day to day, that today the situation is much different than it was a month ago and two and three years ago. And we should therefore already propose some new measures, and we have not yet implemented what we should have done at the beginning. And let's say, here's also on that trail, the SDP had a whole series of packages of these various proposals. And so we had besides protection of citizens' health, protection of economic health and protection of Croatian currency, we had this health package of proposals and I'm going to look back at some things now. Some things we suggested two or three weeks ago, the government only now introduces them through these discounts. Let's just say, we've advocated coordinated and broad testing, testing including, meaning an increased range of testing for citizens, including random testing, or seeing how many people in the population have even walked the virus that they don't even know, that they didn't have any, any of this, any symptoms. Here, let's say, I've been confused by the fact that we've had in the last few days, let's say, compared to the previous ones in these measurements, we have, for example. 40 infected, the day before we were 10, but then they tell us from headquarters, not much less than before because now more people are testing. Does this mean that those previous tests were too small or that they were in greater scope for us to have, wouldn't they have that, that linear growth of 60 people a day as our headquarters represented or those figures would be much, much larger? Well, you had to meet the seven criteria to test someone. Today, people witness in the newspaper how many times they went to health care professionals and begged to be tested, had all the symptoms, refused them, and then threatened themselves and the family and others to eventually turn out to be infected. And let's just say that I don't get it. Why wasn't it played out? And that's the SDP proposal two or three weeks ago. We also suggested that the Republic of Croatia must urgently start producing medical equipment, masks, gloves and so on, not only to depend on imports. And let's say two or three weeks ago, Minister Horvat as a thousand things so far has revolutionaryly announced that we will produce M3 masks for the entire EU. So when Minister Horvat announces it to me, then fear that it really won't be anything. That's how he, by his name, makes big brands, I don't know, big industries, etc. There should be greater intensity and I think that the Republic of Croatia has the knowledge and capacity to produce sufficient medical equipment that would then be necessary for all citizens, or for which it extends the circle of people, and not only for medical professionals and those not medical professionals who live, who work in, in, in medical institutions and in those risky institutions, for example. in the homes of the elderly and the powerless in which these so-called so-called "supervised" happen to us. The breakthroughs of the last few days. So people work there without adequate equipment. Is it because it is not there, that the directors really couldn't achieve or obtain protective equipment for their employees or are in those positions certain directors who are set up by some kind of political key, and then they weren't able to do it, they don't know. I don't know, I'd even dare say here if they couldn't even get it because they don't have any where to come from. On the other hand, why don't we run home-work tests? Here, I know that for example. KBC Rijeka insists, for example. If someone from the nursing home comes to the hospital for surgery to be tested before going to the hospital and after undergoing surgery, for example. The older one, one of the older users of these homes, hip or something, after they operate on it only after they test it, they bring it back. But it's not an obligation by the headquarters, and I'm not sure all the hospitals in the Republic of Croatia are doing it. But let's just say, such institutions that are risky and these employees should be tested, so this test can't be that expensive and unsupervised. What's the big deal about that? Here I would like someone to give me an answer to that question. Why isn't there one? Whether workers working on a shift can be put under some kind of regime in those homes because it is evident that the virus is in these homes where there is a major threat and where the risk users are, are brought by employees, no one else can be brought in, but these people are not guilty, em had no equipment, the conditions are such. Why, I mean, why didn't someone test them? And this is also where we have proposed the same even more restrictive measures in such institutions and this, the other thing that is very important, which is returning to the function of the health system. So, examinations for chronic patients, enhanced labor, but here I see the government in these measures now preparing it and now announcing it and now it's going to start. According to us, we suggested it two weeks ago, but here, it's never too late because we had large waiting lists before this pandemic, I think they've now extended, but we need to work intensively to protect the health of our citizens. I don't have any more time, but maybe I'll go on later. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u201999	Thank you, too. Now, it is now Mr Miranda Mrsic's turn in front of the Club of Representatives of HSS and Democrats, you really didn't have any more time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u202000	Thank you very much. If nothing else, this crown has taught us to wash our hands and wipe the surfaces in front of us, it is something that is common to us doctors, but well, now the whole of Croatia knows and behaves by it. I'm sorry that this law, as we had before the same Pension Insurance Act, got a refusal from the government, I read that refusal, and I have to say that something more unmistakable and transparently failed, read, obviously that in the government, they could have immediately refused when he came to the government, but they must have watched the whole time how they would refuse because this is something logical that they should have accepted. The director of the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance has made it clear that the cost of self-insulation is somewhere around 35 million kuna and that they will find it within the very Institute of Health Insurance so logically that they will find it because last year they ended up, I think with over 200, or almost 300 million kuna plus, which is plus in HZZO, but minus in hospitals, we know what they looked like, but nominally there is plus. There he is, as he is, therefore, I think that this initiative by his fellow GLAS colleagues is not something the government should have rejected. I hope that there will be thoughts and that in the future these things will be resolved because there will be more epidemics, what I said last time and Minister Beros, that you should fire your legal advisers because, therefore, the Law on the Prevention of the spread of infectious diseases in the Parliament brought to an end, and they should have, it should have been one of the first laws, where and in this law it was very clear that when someone in quarantine is entitled to compensation by the state. And it was clear when, when there were a lot of people in self-insulation that it would be a problem for the state, but quite certain that this proposal of GLAS was supposed to come across fertile soil, the government didn't think of it as the last minute of this law. But what will be a problem now is that we give in to measures, and for the first time we will see what these measures have done to us in the system. Maybe now we'll finally see how much hospitals without patients cost us, so only with cold drive. Dubrava is an extremely good example of this, and I think that from this example we can now learn very good lessons because Dubrava was a center that was supposed to take care of all those who were infected with the coronary virus, those who should go to the respirator, she was half empty. Fortunately, thank God it was half-empty, but now we can figure out how much the cold drive of a hospital that doesn't have a patient and only has staff. The second problem I wanted to take this opportunity to talk about is what happened in health care, what happened in the improvement of the population in these months. Whether because of these measures that we've taken, we're going to have a higher incidence of metastatic cancers, whether we're going to have a higher incidence of cardiovascular diseases, we're going to definitely have a higher incidence of psychiatric diseases because this is definitely causing psychiatric trauma, we think today and in the Parliament. Therefore, I hope that the health administration will move very quickly into research and react very quickly because if it turns out that in these months instead of about 2,000 malignancies that we, new ones, are diagnosed during this period and in all of Croatia, if we have diagnosed 1,000, so that we are 1800 or 1900, we are not 100 again, and that 100 will come when the disease has spread. Therefore, it is also one price of this self-insulation. It would also be convenient to see what our mortality rate was during this time when the isolation measures were being taken, whether it was increased, whether it remained the same because, should not close our eyes that because of this situation some did not want to go to the hospital, some had problems to get to health care, there were problems with primary health care, the primary one shut itself up in some way and simply to the doctor’s primary health care was very, very difficult to come by, it’s the same thing that the health administration should think about. What saved us in all of this is the printer. And we were saved by public health and the press to post public health because if there were no public health, I'm not sure that such good results in the control of the coronary virus epidemic would be visible in Croatia. The press we forgot a little bit, and I remember, here recently, two months ago, it was already, there were talks that Croatian society, can't be based on public health, that it must be private health because private health care is only effective and that it will save Croatian health care and health care system. This has shown that without public health, I don't think we could have had such good results because public health is based on citizens' money, with the aim of public health, it's non-profit, with low service prices and citizens don't poverty. I'm just mentioning one fact that if you're in America and you get a coronary virus, you end up in intensive care on the respirator, your will be between $40,000 and $50,000. If you survive such a severe form of coronary virus infection, you will have to declare bankruptcy. 2/3 of American citizens will have to declare bankruptcy because they will not be able to pay for such care. Thank God, unlike the Americans in the Republic of Croatia, there remained a system almost 100 years ago. I imagine Andrija Printar and there I point out one and very important of those 10 postulates, one is very important, which is that the doctor must not be economically dependent on the patient. This does not mean that he must have a lower salary, but that means that the patient does not pay him directly, but for the favor he provides him. On the other hand, the system apparently managed to survive all reforms, starting with Hebrang, and now the last to Kujundzic who systematically destroyed public health. I remember a time when Mr. Hebrang said we didn't need the medical work that was completely unnecessary, that it was the fluid of socialism and everything else, so we had to find, ultimately, specialists of medical work because it was something that was perfectly normal in the EU to have one such service, in the Republic we had to create again, but all the good things that had been created in this medicine for decades were so destroyed by a hasty move. And so, as for this part of public health and the Institute of Epidemiology, it is clear that private businesses and private health do not need infectologists, engineers, and do not give God epidemiologists because they do not need them, they do not make profits for their, therefore, services do not need much of the population. And clearly, the private system won't invest in these personnel, so we need a public system, and that's why this corona epidemic has shown all the benefits of public, public health. It opens up another discussion, one discussion about the future, and that's what we're going to do with public health. It also opens the same discussion that we will have with Croatian society after this, which will happen with the Republic of Croatia, which, which, which we will have to change in relations on the labour market, in the health system and in all other systems because nothing will be the same as it used to be. So the public system needs a very clear direction in which it is, but I think that, thank God, this epidemic has given us a clear guidance, which is that public health needs to be kept and strengthened even more is, it is a provision for health to be first, for it to be available to everyone and that when you get sick you do not have to raise credits to pay for your treatment. The HSS and Democrats club will support this law. We're sorry the government didn't do it. I expect that some kind of change of HZZO regulations will come out very soon to track this.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u202001	Thank you. We're moving on to individual discussions. She's Mrs. First. Željka Josic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u202002	Thank you. I thank the chairman. It's a little bit more like this for me from this perspective, I have to admit. Here's a respected colleague and colleagues, I think we could all agree today on the fact that the spread of the coronary virus to the Republic of Croatia has led to a situation in which the Republic of Croatia has never found itself before. And I, from one of my own, could say from my own perspective that somehow we came in ready and we're going through this all teamed up and I can say solidarity, which led us to, of course, that this growth curve doesn't have its own exponential growth but that we're still at that linear stage. Clearly, to continue in this direction, it is necessary to engage each individual, and I believe that all our people are aware of it, and therefore this law that you have proposed to raise self-insulation benefits for those who are not sick, I still find insufficiently reasoned, and on the other hand, I wonder if you would in this way encourage a new and larger, higher rate of sickness. I am working alone in the health system and what I have noticed so far that the vast majority of our patients still adhere to the self-insulation measure and that they have largely understood that they protect not only themselves but others, but among other things, those of us who work in the health system, police, civil protection, service activities that are available to us at this time. This way, I would stress that only in the health system to combat this epidemic works and deals with more than 70,000 healthcare professionals, more than 7,000 police officers, as regards civil protection of more than 5,000 volunteers, so this is a large number of people who are really our citizens in this way using a measure of self-insulation to prevent them from spreading there among them. Although it is a virus that is still being investigated at this point and for which we will know for some time what will have consequences, I personally believe that health security should always be put first. So I'm a little surprised that you've singled out only an existing moment and only people who are at this moment in self-insulation and you've added tissue and organ donors to this proposal. I'll just remind you that on several occasions we've already discussed pregnant women in this assembly, the most intelligent measures, and at this point I'd like to mention that this fee of 4.250,00 kn also has pregnant women who are on complications of pregnancy. Now you're gonna tell me that, but it's sickening. I personally think, not because I'm a gynecologist but that we should also give this group importance, especially at this point, and I can't agree with you in that segment, you will, when you said that 2 weeks of self-insulation about 2 100 kn. Yeah, that's a little bit, we'll agree. But these women have been on 4200 kuna for several months, so we need to think before we make such suggestions. I believe that some of these proposals in a certain legislation in some future may also be accepted, perhaps in a different form, but what we should think about, we should think about all of our, our entire population, and not just about the currently isolated, currently isolated group of people, so I would like to mention that what we can base our future further on, to educate ourselves, to educate ourselves on infectious diseases, that we must educate our population on infectious diseases, not just the coronary virus, but in general about infectious diseases, and that our future and our health are actually based on the knowledge that we have in the Republic, we just need to direct it in the right direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u202003	Mr. Mrsic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u202004	My colleague Josic, you said this bill was unfounded, so I'd ask you why you think it's unfounded. The bill's proposal is very clear, all those who are in self-insulation instead of these 2.5, should have full, so 4, so a full base, which is somewhere around, instead of 34 million that have been spent that now, somewhere around 70 million kuna, which HZZO can handle, especially which will have less costs because there are less checks, less sickness, so HZZO will have less on the spending side. However, it will have less on the revenue side, but the government has promised that all those that it has freed from contributions, that HZZ will make it up to it, therefore HZZO shouldn't be on this income side, so on the income at the loss, and I don't see why you said this wasn't justified.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u202005	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u202006	So, I didn't say it was unfounded but I said there's not enough explanation. And on the other hand, if we're going to talk about having self-insulation now that we have to pay for. I'll just mention that this same HZO you mentioned ended the year with 200, 300 million kuna in profits, is from, in plus, excuse me, also this same HZO now invests all those funds in the health system. Let us not forget that both April and May will be invested in the Infectological Clinic, which is currently a hospital where virtually all our patients are arriving, from those with mild to severe symptoms of disease and where the intensive treatment units work really 24 hours a day. You also mentioned hospitals and this same HZO and did not reduce the limits at this point, and you know very well that the limits depend very much on how much we are going to invoice. These are some of the things I personally consider that HZO is working well at this point and that all its resources [[Intruder: Thank you.]] gives where it is most needed, and it is a health system. [[Thank you. Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u202007	Mr. Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u202008	My colleague Josic, you said that perhaps accepting this proposal would increase the number of new illnesses, since old illnesses have been reduced, I see no problem in this matter and when we talk about finances in HZZO. There are much fewer reviews today, much less rehabilitation in health institutions, much less the things hospitals do normally, then HZZO doesn't pay for services that hospitals don't currently do. And they've been reduced to a large extent, so I think HZZO finances, regardless of their increased activity due to the coronary virus, have not been compromised, because they've fallen activities in some others and some other hospitals have reduced income significantly because of this because HZZO is now not refunding anything. That's why I don't think this would cause any new problems, and as far as pregnant women's fees are concerned, I support it, so that's what we in the opposition talked about here when we discussed maternity benefits two and three months ago and last year, and that's what we all have to change together and what it would be fair for women to have a 100% salary, that's my position, let's say, 100% salary.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u202009	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u202010	The fact is, at this point, the cold drive is out, but we all know very well why that is. However, I cannot agree with you that part of the examination is not being carried out. We who work in secondary health care are very much communicating with our colleagues from primary protective care through certain instructions where they are looking for the consular findings of the doctor from the hospital. As far as it can be invoiced, it's invoiced, of course, but we're trying to really protect our patients in a way that they're less exposed to any possible infection.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u202011	Thank you. Next debate, Mrs. Crescent. Vesna Pusic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u202012	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary, ma'am. Proposer, so I understand colleagues from HDZ who now have to invent something here to defend this government's position to reject it, but let me make a few arguments out why it is not about the government's political or social wisdom to have this position. This is not about any large amount in view of the amounts we have voted in this House on the government's proposal in the last month. Hundreds of thousands of people, hundreds of thousands, applied for those 4,000 fees so that they wouldn't fire people's employers instead of sticking to that kind of salary of four thousand. As you recall, the government first proposed 3 250 or something, it proved to be too little, it proved obviously insufficiently motivated and then took over, not only did it raise that amount to motivate employers to keep people in jobs, but it also took over another 1,500 kuna on each man to pay contributions. So it's obvious that when the figure is significant enough and those who exert pressure are powerful enough to have money. But when the number 13600 is and these are scattered individuals, so people who are determined to spend time in self-insulating, their social power is nothing. Or so weak that I can't fight for it. The second reason why this argument does not stand for the government and why I think it is both a politically and socially unwise position is in these, in this crisis it has been shown, we have brought here, I don't know, but certainly dozens and dozens of laws on the government's proposal that the opposition in most, of course you always have lunatic fringe but in most cases, supported. And she stood behind it in full awareness of what it means for the budget, which means for later, which means for every next government, which means in the end line and for the PR of this government. She supported it because it's common sense. In this situation, we are not a position and opposition, in this situation we are one group of people from a small country and prohibiting us from taking part in some policy and trying to lead it in some direction that the country is recovering or that through this difficult period some foundation is created from which when this is over, and the question is of course when it will end, whether it will end, we all kind of subconsciously think it will end up being as it was before, and it's very probably not going to end like that, but that somehow we have a stepping board to move on. Epidemiologists around the world estimate that the actual number of coronal infected is approximately 10 times greater than we know on average or what we have on average, on average testing as it exists in different countries. With us, this testing isn't too intense, so we can assume there's a de facto 10, at least 10 times as many people who are infected. Now, why would someone who's been in touch and knows they've been in contact with someone who's been infected, if no one's going to report him, sign up for two weeks in self-insulation and have nothing to eat. Depending on the property condition, there are people, none of us would be the problem, to get those 2,000 and something in two weeks, but many people, it's a serious problem, and when there's all these difficulties that he has why it should be reported that even the poor in that period or cannot [[Thank you very much.]] Make ends meet in that month. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Money's not big And I think it's in. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] measures taken by the Government [[/Intruder: Pussy.]] And that's to positively stimulate people to participate, to be here. [[/Intruder: Pussy.]] Only for the reason the opposition refused. [[/Intruder: Pusic, thank you.]] Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u202013	Mr. Djujic is replicating you, so you can proceed later. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u202014	My colleague Pusic right at the end of your debate you said the most important thing. So it's wrong by the ruling, I would say to look at this measure, like some kind of cost or lack of resources. This is a measure that is necessary, therefore necessary because of the wider number of people, not only these 13,000 you said, but that people threaten by their irresponsible behavior in one hand, or by caring for their own existence in the other hand, they can cause. And in this walk of this month and a half, two days this self-insulation measure for the ruling has even become a matter of fear. So we remember that message to our emigrants by the Staff and the Government, don't come home for Easter in Croatia because you'll have to stay here for 14, 15 days and you won't be able to return to the country you came from and where you work. So it shows at all what way it is The government looks at that measure, not like [[Intruder: Thank you.]] to something necessary than like [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Something like that. [[/Intruder: Answer Mrs. Pussy.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u202015	So all the measures we've brought here, why did we support them? We supported them because we thought they stimulated both employers and workers and different segments of Croatian society to co-operate in combating or reducing, or as they say, the balancing of that curve of the infected, therefore, in this epidemic, the pandemic. This is also one such measure, only much, much, much, much cheaper than all those we have brought so far, and much more efficient than the cost. So I don't see why not.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u202016	Mr. Cell.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u202017	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Pusic, this is still about 14 days and I would not exactly say that the citizens will be poor for 14 days, Col. Mrak-Taritash mentioned the workers of the gas station and I would mention the employees who work in the shops, I am afraid that they will unfortunately, but such a situation in Croatia does not earn more than 14 days more than these 2,125 kuna, of course there is room for people who have a measure of self-insulation that can work from home, of course some can't, but I would not be so dramatic. On the other hand, you are in some way indirectly stimulating these people to apply for self-insulation, and we are again somehow entering a certain trap that is happening in our neighbouring country where the president of a country before the elections promised all citizens 100 EUR.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u202018	Thank you. Mrs. Pusic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u202019	You think self-insulation is a promise of EUR 100? I don't really see it. Because why did we do all this if it wasn't for the idea of relying on honest intelligent judgment from people. So you're gonna take away their money so they don't sign up for self-insulation. Honestly, I'd rather have 10% fooled them in that direction so they didn't have to go into self-insulation than fool 10% of them into not going into self-insulation but walking around and spreading the infection.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u202020	Thank you. Now Mr. Sasa Djujic has his own debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u202021	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So I'll continue here's this debate we've just started in the direction we're headed. So, I think this bill and this measure of increasing that base is necessary and I don't think it's just correcting the injustice of people who end up in self-insulation, but this is exactly what we're doing, not to encourage people to apply to self-insulation, but to prevent those who need to be there for their own safety, security of their family, security of all citizens and environments from really being and not to lie about their contacts about where they came from, let's say, before the measures were introduced, some of them returned to Croatia right before the headquarters decided that, that the people who came back had to stay there for 14 days, and then they didn't want to talk about where they were. It's just that the fact that a man has to be locked up in one space, alone without anyone else for 14 days, is depressing enough, let alone some finance. Here, I think we remember there were colleagues in this high house who were in self-insulation, fortunately they don't depend on these 2,000 kunas because by law they have full wages regardless of whether, some are in this high house for four years, so there are no problems. But let's say colleagues from self-insulation appealed to the government, and let's say Minister Beros accepted it and said it as a proposal, and that's psychological help to these people because they're in big trouble. And even citizens who haven't been in self-insulation who haven't been able to move out of their homes for the last month and a half as much as they want have come into certain psychological problems. Therefore, there is no money to motivate or not to motivate. So what is important is that in the focus of this measure should be the safety of citizens, and safety if someone has to be in self-insulation, must be in self-insulation. Well, we looked at the same thing, the headquarters is at the beginning, now they're not even talking anymore, and today we caught 30 and some attempts or self-insulation violations, so there were those who broke five or six times as often, so they were forced into a facility by the government, and that's how it should be. But I think this way, no, not with these reduced resources because of the existence of people will lie about their contacts. And I don't think fellow Cellic that if he increased what we said to make people what we said, he'd lie to some just to end up in self-insulation, but here's the thing. So we're looking at the same thing, some people are saying I was in touch, I need to be tested, so the ruling say you don't meet those three criteria, because you don't have three criteria, we're not gonna test you yet, you haven't, you're gonna have to match those three things, so that Andrija on the line, not Mikulić, but this digital assessment of whether this one, whether there's any measures in our place, when we write whether we cough, don't cough, whether it's a nose leak, give us a hard breath, short breath, etc., so I believe there are instruments that if someone comes and lies that they want to be in isolation because they want to get the money that some experts from the headquarters or let's say that you don't have to be in isolation and you won't get these 4,000 kunas. And I don't think that's an argument that this measure isn't being taken. I don't think that can be an argument. And if it were rational and logical that this bill was adopted for another month and a half, and that would increase security, security among our citizens. This way someone can be, who should be in self-insulation walking around spreading the virus, and if they didn't even know or avoided it because he reported it, so that someone wouldn't fall and we're not talking right now, you mentioned some of your colleagues working for less than that, and then they won't even feel it. What about those who work for 7-8 000 kunas and end up in self-insulation or have to go into self-insulation at 2,000, it's on those 15 days that they'll get in total mass maybe if they get back to work after 15 days of some 3-4,000, which is half pay again. People have loans, you don't want to accept a moratorium on loans in a year, say. You've accepted this 3 plus 3 now, but people have some kind of life needs, and then we hit them here on that part that should be the interest of all of our citizens. So I think this is a good solution and this should be adapted to the current situation. So when this pandemic and the crisis is over, if this is no longer necessary, then we make changes, so we get it out of the law, because that way we're going to have to re-change the whole series of laws of this and get them back to their initial positions. So here, me and the SDP Club will once again speak to support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u202022	There's no replica. Thank you. Mr. Mirano Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u202023	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, this bill of law has invited me to touch a few things in my debate that are related to the crisis itself caused by an epidemic of the coronary virus because clearly nothing that has happened so far will be after this crown crisis like this. And it is evident that citizens believe in public health and that public health will need much more investment than has been invested so far. That he will need to change direction, which means that in primary health care we move away from this concession direction and return to health homes. Because just to mention that after the towers of twins in the U.S. were torn down, no one asked at all, he asked the question of investment in the fight against terrorism. So now, after the crown of the crisis, no one will even ask questions about investing in the health system, but it will be something that governments will have to do under the pressure of citizens. Therefore, we should now think about how our public health will improve and make it even more effective than it has ever been. But this crown crisis will still bring a number of things that we are not aware of at this time, we will not be able to influence some things, but we will be able to influence some things and what is being asked about all of us in this assembly and for Croatian society is how ready we are to change these things and to change our society to become more efficient and to come out of this crown of crisis stronger than we were, not to go through a crisis that should take some assessments of the mountains than that economic crisis 2018. In fact, now you can see that we're going to have to physically distance ourselves from each other, not that I don't like that expression of social distance because man is a social being, a social being, I think that physical distance is one of the better names for what's waiting for us. The question is, how long can we transform our education system to go home learning? We've tried basic education now, but it's a question for all of us whether we're ready to improve it, to make it possible in such a way that everyone's higher education, he's a line of education, that's something that's already well developed in Western countries. This crown crisis has shown one more thing, which is the work of a house that was unimaginable in Croatia since two months ago to work from home and has opened up questions related to working legislation that this government has not yet given clear answers, but in the future, it is obvious that more will work from home and that an office such as this will no longer exist in this form and that all creativity and efficiency can come from work from home and that we do not need the office to be in the office to have these abilities and knowledge and to join them. All of these are things that are now waiting for us in the future, it seems to me that this government is more based on these first effects of the coronary crisis, the health crisis is a little bit going away and it will stay in this form with me expecting fellow epidemiologists to postulate in a certain part of the revision. This is seen now and according to reports from other countries because it is obvious that we have responded to this crisis by the measures that were measures of 918, but society is different than 918 and these measures of isolation, the way of isolation, how we isolate people and prevent the spread of the virus will probably be revised, it is seen by this now easing measures, but the government should think far beyond these first effects because this will certainly change Croatian society and Croatian society will be different than before the crown of the crisis, but I would not want us to be a worse society than we were before we were better society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u202024	Thank you, too. Miss Cellic, she wants to replicate.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u202025	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Mrsic, I agree with you that you should invest in public health, and this is like investing in insurance of car, life, only when something happens then you can activate it, and with public health, which unfortunately for the past 30 years has been in some way minorized and there is, there is also talk about the role of health homes and the Immunological Institute, so I believe that after the root of the crisis, the role of public health will not only in Croatia but also at global level be greater and that the politicians who make decisions will be aware that more investment is needed. And here I would also mention the issue of protection of mental health in the community, which is also neglected in Croatia, partly because of the lack of home health and I believe that the role of these experts involved in mental health will be much more significant after this period.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u202026	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u202027	Thank you very much. Miss Cellic, we're doctors, so we understand these things. It is absolutely certain that mental health will be one of the most important elements and I am sorry that we in Croatia have destroyed those mental health dispansers that were in the homes of health which were basically the most effective way of caring about mental health, because you know to go to Vrapce or go to Rebro and then to the basement, so it is, but people are skeptical of that, and here it was a very elegant way. I hope that here I am using the opportunity that, given that you are in HDZ, to warn of a situation that is now occurring on the Rebr, which is because of the inability of space because the Jordanian needs to move, the entire Psychic Medicine Clinic is allegedly moving out, which I don't think is good. Because we built this system, it's important for both the defenders and the mental health of the defenders, so here I hope you'll use your influence in HDZ so that it doesn't happen. Once she's moved out, she'll never come back and we'll destroy that good, good part of her mental health care. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u202028	Thank you. And now, at the end of the day, Mrs. Anka, Mr. Taritash will give the final word on behalf of the promoter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u202029	Thank you very much. I won't use this all the time, but somehow I have to thank all of you who participated in the debate, there wasn't much of us, but the debate was always useful and always should be. This coronary virus situation will certainly change us. They will bring change in both our lives and our way of life. I'm an architect, and 20 years ago I got a book from a colleague in Australia, the book was about cities of the future, what cities of the future would look like, and it was actually defined how housing buildings would be built and it was the assumption that the future of buildings would be, just have to be self-sustainable in terms of energy elements, but that people would live in these buildings with minimal contact with others. One of the reasons was that there were diseases that could not be controlled, and the other was that they had to have apartments where you can work, apartments where you could have all the food delivery, which 20 years ago was still an idea that was impossible, that you had residential buildings that had common spaces but that were individually used in terms of gyms and in terms of equally cultural needs. Two weeks ago, I watched a determined theater show at home. I hooked up my computer to a TV set and watched a great theater show at home, but I regretted not watching it in the theater. I was then, my first thought was Jesus that now I read it, that for my life, someone else in another life would plan such cities and such buildings. I remember countless times now for these times, these pandemics of that book, because exactly what it said we live there, but not in the conditions that are prepared for it, but in our terms we adapt. And somehow we won't all be the same behind this. Something's about to change. And I'm going back to this proposal of ours. So the government decided to protect people’s health first. Sweden decided on a second model. In Sweden, first of all, the Swedishs live in Sweden, and then some things are a little different. They've got about 2,000 dead at this point, there's 10 million of us, so there's 4 million of us, so let's say 2.5 times as many have 2,000 dead. Imagine that on one, you can do it, to a small country like Croatia which would result. Not just in the sense of some lost people, but in the sense of our psyches, life behind that. So we decided to save people's lives, and behind that, we decided to help the economy. In terms of saving people's lives, this is exactly what we're proposing. He's reasonable, he's responsible and he's necessary. I won't really owe it, it's already enough, I, I'm sorry that the government decided not to accept this proposal, and I'm sorry that when there's going to be a vote it won't or most won't accept it because we know what the vote is. My mom has a saying that she uses very often, and that's what I told you, because every time I repeat everything she's told me, then she says I told you and I can only tell you, I told you you'll come to this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u202030	Thank you, too. I'm closing the debate and we'll vote when the conditions are met. Now let me tell you what we will have on Wednesday, excuse us, on Friday, tomorrow's report on the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities and on the spending of funds secured in the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2018 and then the report on the work of the National Council to monitor the implementation of the anti-corruption strategy for the period from 15 September '18. until July 15, '19. A year. Goodbye, thank you. Session interrupted at 17.45 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-23-0.u202031	Final draft law supplementing the Mandatory Health Insurance Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 859. Proposing representative Anka Mrak-Taritash. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft law supplementing the mandatory health insurance law that the government does not support, please vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that the law has not received the required number of votes, 33 for, 76 against, so the law has not been passed.
