ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5301	I thank the media representatives. Please allow us to begin work. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I am opening the 3rd session of the 10th convocation of the Croatian Parliament and I warmly welcome you all. I particularly welcome the President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, Mr Andrej Plenkovic, the Vice-President and the other members present and members of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This session begins with a regular meeting of the HS, which, according to the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and the Rules of Procedure of the HS, begins on 15 September and ends on 15 December. I invite you to pay tribute at the beginning of the session to the homeland by performing an anthem beautiful our homeland. - I invite you now to pay tribute to all the deceased representatives of the previous assembly, to all Croatian defenders and all those who gave their lives to the country. - A moment of silence - May their glory be eternal and thank them. Dear MPs and MPs, you received the minutes of the 1st and 2nd session of HS by electronic means. Any objections to the record? There isn't. Since there are no objections, I note that we adopted the minutes of the 1st and 2nd session of the Croatian Parliament in the proposed text. We are now moving on to the agenda of the session. With a call for a session, you've also received a draft agenda. The final proposal was delivered by electronic means. In the final draft agenda, I put 7 new points under regular numbers 5, 6, 9, 29, 33, 34 and 46. I would like to stress that the new points proposed in the final draft agenda are printed in bolder letters. Those points did not contain the draft agenda that you received with the invitation. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that a proposal to adopt an individual law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure, Art. 206. The Rules of Procedure lay down that, following an urgent procedure, laws are adopted which comply with EU documents, if requested by the Proposer, and are not voted on. This is point 3 of the final draft agenda, draft law amending and supplementing the Law on concessions with the final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z.E. No. 16. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 21(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013. I hereby declare that this legislative proposal is included in the agenda by There have been no written objections to the agenda that I have proposed with the call for the session, and this agenda shall be in accordance with Article. 225 C. 3. The Rules of Procedure shall be deemed to have been established. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. The 225th century 4th century. The Rules of Procedure, at the meeting of the Assembly, may be submitted in writing only to those points which did not contain a draft agenda with a call for a session. In the absence of a written objection to the remaining points which did not contain the draft agenda referred to in the invitation to the meeting, and those points shall be included in the agenda of the 3rd session. I note that the items proposed in the final draft agenda are included in the agenda of the 3rd session.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5330	The next Club of Representatives is that of the Homeland Movement on behalf of which the respected representative Milan Vrkljan will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5331	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. I must say at first, although I will spend part of my five minutes, that here we are 6, 7, 8, 8 MPs, this is about the responsibility of all of us who have been chosen by the Croatian people to sit here. It's the same message and those who watch us on television today let them know that thousands and thousands of them are sitting next to the TV and watching what we're discussing, and 8 of us are in the assembly, all the others are gone. Well, good. I wanted to talk today about the health system, a health system that spends 27 billion kunas every year. Tax bonds in all of Croatia allocate funds to get something. Do they get adequate value for that money? You can ask our patients that. You can ask your patients that in the last 10 years. that is, from the last SDP government when lists began to be created in the Republic of Croatia to today's government when the lists for some searches were over a year old. You can ask our doctors who are very educated, who went around the world, Ireland, Germany, America, Australia and there achieved envious successes. You can ask our nurses who are missing at least a few thousand in health care facilities. Despite spending 27 billion kunas, Croatia is the only country from neighbouring Czech Republic, Slovakia, Hungary and Slovenia that has waiting lists like we have, have you ever heard that a country from our neighborhood, our own views positions that we represent in Europe have waiting lists? It doesn't exist. Why? Because our system is health professionally financially and in every other way devastated. You have 200 to 250 million kunas each month of a new debt for which no one accounts. The government of the Republic of Croatia, I said the same thing today, led by Plenkovic, is not ready to allow Minister Beros to bring order into the health system, and the health system can be arranged for me to claim that I am coming, 30. I'm working on that system, I'm saying that the system can be arranged with 27 billion kuna and there's no waiting list. But then it can't happen that in our largest hospitals all the heads of clinics, institutions and institutes have their own private clinics, private hospitals and private hospitals. It is one of the key problems in Croatian health. Systemically devastation of state health. Imagine, we have a health system that is the only one in Europe that has no monitoring system, outcomes of treatment for some diseases, for some medicines or for what we do in the health system. How is that possible? It's possible because some people respond to such an unsettled system. Imagine, we are a country, a disgraceful country of the Mediterranean, a country of culture, a country of civilization over 1500 years, which we are the country with the most amputated progenitors to complicate diabetes in the EU. We are worse than Bulgarians, respect for that people. If you take parameters that are not only the EU, we are unfortunately worse than some of our neighbouring countries. Why? Because the system is devastated, financially, organisationally and professionally. And worst of all, those who should put that order into that system can't and won't or don't know how to bring order. I'll remind you of that sentence that we've all heard today, when the notorna Zadarec tells Minister Beroshu, but why you leave people in the health system who aren't competent to run that system, and he says in a calm and sad voice, what everyone could listen to, but Diana, so you know that I don't decide. So let's say once who it is that decides what kind of health care system will be in Croatia so he can say why he doesn't want to settle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5398	And now we're moving on to the club stand. Here's a respected representative, Kristo, who's been in violation of the Rules of Procedure. What's the matter with the Rules of Procedure? [[Intruder: Yes, violation of the Rules of Procedure according to Art. 144.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5399	The President of the Parliament was obliged to inform MPs of issues to which the Government did not provide an answer within the prescribed period of 30 days. On July 29th, 50 days ago, I asked the finance minister for a detailed specification of which exactly 100 thousand kunas of our money were spent by the government to celebrate genocide over its own people in Serbia this year. The President of the Parliament insults the Croatian Parliament by his actions and failures, but also the Croatian nation.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5400	Of course, it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but I will pass on your request to the President of the Parliament, so I hope he makes some moves. As I said and as announced in advance, immediately after the end of the current morning, we move to the presentation of the position on behalf of the Club of Representatives and Independent Representatives, and the first on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Sovereigns will speak to the Honored Representative Marijan Pavliček, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5401	Dear Vice President of HS, colleagues and colleagues. I welcome you all. Yesterday, in the town of Vukovar, we marked the death of the city's district of Simište, the largest city district where during the Homeland War, probably the hardest-born breast was the first to die in just a few weeks, as many as four defence commanders were killed in this city's district. Where, unfortunately, a large part of Croatian civilians remained trapped during the occupation, they could not leave the occupied part of the city, and even after the fall of the entire city of Vukovar, some even stayed until the spring of '92. Mr. During that period they were abused, tortured, used as slaves, they had to dig crabs for corpses that were all over the city after the occupation itself, many raped, and also many, unfortunately, and liquidated. I would especially like to point out the Paksec family here. A family who unfortunately had no such luck leaving Vukovar after the fall but remained until April of '92. Mr. in the occupied Fair, occupied by Vukovar, when he was brutally executed, and father, mother and two under-age children of Damir and Dario were robbed, just because they were Croats, thrown into the well, into a mass grave, and the Serb aggressor succeeded in what he wanted to do to the entire Croatian people. He managed to suppress the lineage of this family. There is no last name Paksec in the town of Vukovar today. Instead of looking forward to their grandchildren today, we do not have any more vines of that family. Yesterday, at the memorial day for the victims of the Fair, there were numerous representatives and representatives of the prime minister, and there was a colleague, Maja Balic, as the representative of the president of HS, and I am glad they were also representatives of the state government. But just two days earlier in that same city district, only five hundred meters of air line further to the so-called. The lump of a spoon, as they call it the local Serbs or the cemetery of the alley. The mammals' cemetery, called the Croats and the Aleya Cemetery as called by local Serb representatives, gathered representatives of the SDSS led by Mr Stanimirovic, representatives of the Serbian People's Council, the consul of the Republic of Serbia in Vukovar, have gathered, as they say, in connection with the victims of the war since '91. until '95. I wonder which victims they worship? If they worship those who are responsible for the crimes that took place in the area of the city of Vukovar, in the area of Eastern Slavonia, because you must know that so-called The mammal cemetery was created during the occupation of the city of Vukovar, where those who attacked the Republic of Croatia, who participated in numerous crimes, likely involved in rapes, murders and were killed on the enemy side. They received a spoon-shaped monument that was removed after the peace integration, but the memory of the board remained. And I wonder who Mr. Stanimirovic, the Serbian People's Council, whose victims, and since they are part of the current government, is that also the official policy of this government and whether Mr. Pupovac eventually succeeded in his intention, and apparently is equalizing the victim and the aggressor is no longer talking about the aggressor, but everyone is talking about the victims. No one ever mentions the cause and cause of all these victims and can ever be the same victim of Croatian civilians or even a Serb civilian with the victim of those who attacked the Republic of Croatia and died on that occasion. Unfortunately, that happened two days ago in Vukovar, and I'm afraid that if this policy continues, our children will learn that there was once a country war, a civil war, not a country war, that there will be an aggressor and a sacrifice. I'm afraid that just under the cover of brotherhood and unity, I'm going back to the fact that we're all equally guilty. Therefore, we must speak loudly and clearly in this HS that we cannot allow the equality of the victim and the aggressor, even if they are representatives of the official Croatian government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5402	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, the next Club of Representatives is that of HSLS and Reformist on behalf of whom the respected representative Dario Hrebak will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5450	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. Today, I wanted to come forward on behalf of the HSLS and Reformers club on behalf of the occasional passenger transport sector. There have already been several times in this House of Commons said a lot about just one of the most exposed, most affected economic sectors in this pandemic and economic crisis and even today at the current morning here in the Croatian Parliament but indeed, the decline of income from as much as 95% to 98%, the total indifference of this particular sector, precisely those entrepreneurs who are engaged in this activity, the threat of performances that are also coming soon, are waiting for them right after this legal period of activation that is practically at the door. We know from time to time that the legal name is one of the branches of road transport which often and often leads us to the wrong premise because it is not only occasionally but constantly, it is mostly connected to tourists, the tourist season that we know it has passed and in large part it is fully dependent on international air traffic which is practically completely stopped. It would be best to define that it is an orderly transport, it is important to point out that this sector consists of 2,000 companies with more than 20,000 employees, more than 1000 high-end vehicles, this is one of the few economic branches where the quality of the service or rolling stock must be at the top European level because these are all new vehicles with the euro 6 engines, technologically advanced and secure. Relaxing the measures, returning economic activity to normal has not helped the carriers at all, those other than the small percentage of them who manage to transport school children, all other forms of transport have completely stopped and and this transport of school children is not entirely with them, does not mean much, much more traffic. The road corridors are open, though, but it does not mean anything to them because it is the corridors that allow tourists to come to their cars, so most of them are tourists in this tourist season and decided to take their own transport and get their own cars, and of course most airlines are not yet, nor will they be established, and during the tourist season they were not fully intensified. The government has been very helpful, it can't be said, so just these carriers... The transport, however, helped her at this most difficult moment, so we received indications that it would be by the end of this year, but what is also very important and what we have heard today, and from the Minister himself at the current afternoon, that the Leasing houses that have gone out to meet the carriers and approved a moratorium with interest payments, as well as the principals, are of course waiting for them all in the future, paid off, but not under normal interest rates, but those interest rates for the moratorium are too high, amounting to 18% to 35%, practically interest rates. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If we could find a common language with leasing houses, if we could get the government to try to find one deal right now, that way we could really help these very carriers. I point out that almost all European Union member states in this sector have been sharing grants, that interest is precisely 8% or better 4%, on the other hand we believe that those countries have stood behind their entrepreneurs, taxpayers, and workers because they know that saving economic branches means getting out of any crisis faster. So here's our Club, we've been thinking, and we're proposing to our government to urgently allocate grants from the European Union, to continue to continue, not just until the end of this year, but to continue the conservation measures precisely for these jobs, in a way that is still worth 4,000.00 kuna plus contributions, so not only until 31.12., but really until at least 31.03. until there's a sign of improvement and let's say the announcement of a new tourist season. It is also important to provide further moratorium to leasing and credits with an adequate interest for a shorter period, and there is also the minister I announced that he will try to do something about it, because this really interest of 18-35% in this crisis, I don't think it serves anyone else, and at least to the Houses. HSLS and we Liberals will be the voice of Croatian entrepreneurs, our representatives as well as other members of our Club in the Assembly will be determined to help this economic sector immediately because all other scenarios lead towards bankruptcy, and we all know what this will mean before the upcoming tourist season, that we will not have our own domestic entrepreneurial forces that will carry all these tourists towards our coast. I hope so, and today I have been given some assurance in this part of the Ministerial Response that the government will still deal with this issue and that we will indeed help our car carriers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5451	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives is a party with a name and name, Smart and GLASA, on behalf of which will speak respected representative Marijana Puljak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5499	I thank the chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues. I'm going to go over one of the topics of education again today, yesterday the Prime Minister was in Split and Solin. In Solin he visited the newly built Church of the Holy Family in the Prapest of the Lady of the Island and as he said it was a significant project, a valuable contribution to Croatian culture, a Christian tradition, but I don't know if he knew that near that church, there was a 100-metre school in Solin that was recently truly unique in Croatia, which was a school that worked until last year, it seems to me in four shifts. Now, if you didn't know, there were even schools in Croatia that worked four shifts, I think since last year she's been working three shifts. According to data on the website of the Ministry of Science and Education in the school year '19/20 in Croatia, there were 822 schools that worked in two shifts, which means 34%, of which 14 more in three shifts, so not taking into account the schools that now died in the earthquake, schools with two or three shifts last year attended nearly 280,000 pupils, that is 60%. In modern European Union countries where education really is the foundation of society, where it is not only I would say PR some good propaganda, in which society cares about the conditions and quality of education because they know that only people who are critical can develop their full potentials of creativity and innovation, can give the foundations to modern society, contribute to the development of society, so such countries do not know the word shift at all, do not know what the shift is, so their schools do in one shift. There have been many different governments, and so this one, and in the last term, it seems to me, and now mentioned this as a goal, in the last term, the minister also announced a project in collaboration with the World Bank that will ensure that our schools have a full-time stay, so they are working on one shift. So the question here is when are we finally going to start to realize that goal, when are we really going to become a country of knowledge or a society where education is the foundation of development, the foundation of a modern society and a modern state. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5500	Thank you very much. The next club of MPs is the green-left bloc on behalf of which the respected representative Tomislav Tomasevic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5609	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I will speak today on behalf of the club about the housing policy of the Republic of Croatia or the lack of the same. In fact, as heard by the actuator in two weeks, there is a new tender for subsidies of housing loans for young people, i.e. citizens up to 45 years of age, carried out by the Agency for Legal Traffic and Real Estates, i.e. APN. As the minister said to the actuator, so it is now the latest data, 243 million kuna has so far been for this measure that has been implemented over the last three years, but much more has been promised, since, as you know, subsidies are being negotiated for some number of years, so that what is promised we will have to pay even more years. But so far, 243 million kunas have been paid in just the last three years. We have a lot of criticism on that scale, I'll only mention three to begin with. It is exclusively a measure aimed at those who buy an apartment or a house and so take a bank loan. Because in this contest... along with 14 banks that will participate in the APN measure. What should also be said is that it is a periodical measure i.e. that this contest, and now after the new twice a year, was in spring and will now be in late September. So just because you have to realise the real estate transaction then, of course, then the owners count with that the incentives and orderly during the subsidy are rising the price of real estate. So it does a bear service actually to these citizens the government does so because it helps them subsidize the housing loan, but at the same time the price of that property, the price of that apartment or house goes up because the measure is periodic, so it only happens twice a year. And so in the end, it's exactly that public money that ends up in bank profits. Also, what is even more important is a measure for those young people, i.e. up to 45 years of age who are creditworthy. All those others, and keep in mind that Croatia is at the very top of the occasional forms of employment of young people who are not creditworthy, all these people are left on the market to sort out their housing issue somehow. What does that lead to? According to EUROSTAT, Croatia is at the top of all EU member states, and together with Great Britain means 28 countries where young people leave their parents' home at the latest. On average, at 31.8 years of age, young people in Croatia leave their parents' home. They're leaving because they can't afford a flat, they can't afford a rent, they can't handle a housing issue in any way, and we can see that these measures that the government has been focusing on lately are not adequate for a large number of young people who are not creditworthy. 200,000 people I have to remind have moved out of Croatia since we joined the EU and I believe that among these young people and a good part of those who couldn't simply move out of the parent home, they couldn't find and afford an apartment, and I remind you that even the European Commission claims that this is the right to an apartment, the right to an affordable apartment, the right to a home is a human right and the state should be concerned about how to ensure that it is human rights. Also, a catastrophic housing policy has led to more than 40% of households in Croatia being overcrowded, further, 45% of the population paying rent at some market price, which is more than 40% of the total income, which is absolutely problematic according to EU data. The tax system is such that it stimulates short-term rent for tourists instead of long-term rent for city residents, so I will remind you that 10 times the tax is paid by those who legally rent the apartment to city residents in Croatia than those who rent the same apartment to tourists. What is the solution is, of course, a different tax framework, but also to build public apartments for rent. I would like to remind you that Croatia has only 2% of the public-owned housing fund compared to the 15% average of EU countries. Without a public housing fund, we cannot affect the rent market, and I will remind you that some towns like Vienna have as much as 60% of the housing fund in public and non-profit rent, and for example Zagreb has about 2%. So just when you see how much we've invested in these measures that in the last 18 years 1 billion kuna has gone to the building of apartments, we're about now approaching that housing subsidy figure, which is not an adequate housing policy.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5610	Thank you. And now, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, a respected representative, Marija Jelkovac, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5705	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues. Today we have been listening all morning to serious accusations by MPs, some opposition representatives at the expense of the Croatian Democratic Community, at the expense of the government, ministers, the Prime Minister of certain corrupt and not transparent procedures, and this accusation does not last just today, it is in fact a constant by those who, as we see, stumbled on the submission of a simple financial report on the funds spent to finance the electoral promotion. These days, the State Election Commission has published a report on the implementation of the monitoring of the financing of electoral elections and we can see from the reports that some political parties such as the SDP and other parties that were with them in the Restart coalition, the Home Movement of Miroslav Škora and the parties that were with them in the coalition, the MOST, the Party with the name and last name, Focus and Smartly have not submitted accurate and complete reports and have therefore been sanctioned by the suspension of the cost of election promotion. We believe in HDZ that this standard that we have is introduced by law, and it is related to the regulation of restrictions on the financing of electoral promotion and to the transparent, accurate and complete display of election costs is quite important for the development of parliamentary democracy, but more important for strengthening citizens' trust and in electoral processes, but also for us who are dealing with politics and, in general, this shows the transparent financing of all those entities participating in the electoral processes. The SDP or the Restart coalition parties, as the report shows, did not provide all evidence that they had spent.../incomprehensible/... their incomes and thus their report was not complete. However, it is good because these reports were delivered on time, we also remember those times when the SDP was punished because it did not submit its financial report within the prescribed time limit. Homeland movement, Croatian sovereigns and others who were also sanctioned because they did not present all the information on the cost of promotion and amounting to nearly 65,000 kuna. I read on the portals that they didn't attach bills for fuel, restaurants, cafes, pizzerias, no rental contracts, no business space leases, no spectral bills from malls, etc. The Most also did not show everything he spent on election promotion, so their financial report was not accepted. The party with a name and a last name, Smart and Focus also did not show all their costs, such as cost of making promo video and travel expenses. There, so much about their transparency, which they are great advocates of what we are very often hearing about here, as well as the ability to deliver a rather simple and prescribed financial report completely and accurately. Obviously, those actors have double criteria for financial transparency when it comes to them. I'm not surprised because I remember other examples like that. Mrs. Devereaux. Dalia Oreshkovic when she founded her first Start party that lasted just enough to start and when she did not allow the founding assembly to be public, and then the legal validity of the assembly was questioned because of the quorum, but that is probably a demonstration of transparent treatment when it comes to them. I cite this example because it is evident how those who call us constantly behave that we are not transparent and how we are acting on time, precisely and fully fulfilled our legal obligation and delivered what serious political parties are doing in accordance with the law. Thank you, the public will evaluate everything.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5706	Thank you very much. That's what we're done with taking the club stand, The next club of MPs will be that bridge of independent lists on behalf of which the respected representative Miro Bulj will speak. I don't see him here, so he loses his right to speak. So the next one will be the SDP Representatives' Club on behalf of which the respected representative Arsen Bauk will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5780	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. The current clock was at the beginning and the club exposure in the middle, while this last point was at the end of our day. In an interview given by the Ombudsman for children who otherwise called HDZ's parliamentary majority a little procedurally violent way, but now I will take it as a plus, she said she believes that the teaching of religious science as well as any other election subject should be organised at the beginning or at the end of the course. She also pointed out in an interview as a problem of practicing religious content and beyond the teaching of religious sciences, such as at school concerts. So, the institution that was established to point out what the problem of children was, it reacted and highlighted the way in which religion and the practice of religious contents outside and teaching as a problem for children and it would be good for institutions such as the Ministry of Education to deal with these problems being removed or reduced in a way that would allow the normal and correct position of the electoral class at school to allow children to be at the beginning or eventually continue to do so so so that those who do not attend the course, could either later come or leave school and other children, of course by choice or by choice of parents, would most normally attend that course. If that wasn't the case, we've known for a long time. So the fact is that in some schools classes are held in the middle of the captain's office. However, it was not as big a problem as it is now because children at the time when they did not continue in some activities that the school organized for them, however, by the occurrence of the crown of the crisis, began to happen in cases where school staff therefore asked non-religious children to stand in the same class, probably in the last bench and to either put headphones on their ears or simply pretend like they were not there. I believe it's not a good practice, though, it's a terrible practice. I would compare it with pride, and pride is one of the sins that God hates most, how we can read in literature. In order to show rebellion, the parents of a Zagreb school made a gesture and came for their children who did not attend religious studies who should have stayed in the class, however, they themselves said they had done it out of rebellion but that it was not the point that they were wasting their working hours to do something that the state must do and what the state must provide. So then I call on the institutions to solve this problem and reduce it in a way that children don't feel like second-class children in their class, not to be present and to pretend to be absent and as regards gestures, so I'm willing to spend some time with those kids who are so to say, condemned to be invisible, to take their time off because their parents don't have to spend their time and practice mathematics with them during that period when they have no other choice. If anyone wants it for their child, let them answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5823	We will now begin by asking questions to the Government or to an individual member of the Government in accordance with the provisions of Rules of Procedure of Article 132 to 139. The current morning shall be held at the beginning of each session before the first item of the agenda. Just to let you know, it means the government's 10 of them will sit here and rotate according to the needs of how they will be referred the question. Comrade Zekanovic, you've reached out to something before the beginning, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5824	Dear President of the Assembly, just one technical question. Here I know it's prescribed in the assembly that we all have to wear these masks and I'm wearing it neatly, but we all have that famous parliamentary immunity I've recently had immunity to the coronary virus. So is this the fashion detail or does it mean I have to wear it still just because it's a regulation? So, I can't infect anyone or be infected by what members of the Civil Protection Staff are, and there are some members who are present talking and what members of the government's scientific advice say, so if it's a fashion detail and if it's in a decision, I'll be happy to wear this as a fashion detail, and I'd like the decision to change that all those who are over or have antibodies don't have to wear this.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5825	I'm not an epidemiologist. Come on, please, first I wish you a happy return, I'm glad you're well and I'm glad you're back with you, but I'm asking you that while these rules apply, so if you're wearing a mask out of no other solidarity, here I am, even though I'm sheltered here with a plexiglass. [[But here are your colleagues at headquarters, so ask.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5826	I'm not an epidemiologist. Come on, please, first I wish you a happy return, I'm glad you're well and I'm glad you're back with you, but I'm asking you that while these rules apply, so if you're wearing a mask out of no other solidarity, here I am, even though I'm sheltered here with a plexiglass. [[But here are your colleagues at headquarters, so ask.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5827	Thank you very much. We are now going to ask questions, first on the work of a respected colleague, Dario Zurovec, who will ask the question of the Minister of Spatial Planning, Construction and State Property, colleagues, Minister Darko Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5828	The Honorable Prime Minister, the Honorable Minister, the Honorable President, fellow MPs and MPs, my question is next. From what sources and what dynamics do the Law of Reconstruction plan to finance the restoration of earthquake - damaged objects? Or to be more specific, I'm interested in the exact recovery plan per year, I'm interested in the annual costs of renovations and sources of funding by the end of the renewal period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5829	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5830	Thank you, Your Honor, for asking. I am using the opportunity and thank you publicly for your contribution through amendments to the creation of the law itself, and I am sure you know very well that Article 5 lists the sources of funding that are currently available today, or those on which both the City of Zagreb and Krapina-Zagorska and Zagreb County have a certain impact. In the next 30 days, the construction of the first programme will define the priorities and these priorities will be consistent with the sources of funding because I am sure you are familiar with the fact that all those budgetary users under the current laws have a certain fiscal responsibility and cannot negotiate and negotiate any work if they are not provided or provided for. So, the dynamics of the year that will be discussed with the programmes of measures to be taken by the Government of the Republic of Croatia with a previous public debate, and I use the opportunity to invite you to actively engage in the public debate of the first programme of measures that will soon be presented to the Croatian public, so the measures will define priorities in line with the finding of sources of financing, and you also know that one part of these financial resources from which we draw or pay accounts of those who have already self-initiatedly embarked on the recovery of the earthquake of destroyed roofs, chimneys, dental walls, elevators, and the law gives opportunity and stairs, so 100 million kunas in the positions of the Government of the Republic of Croatia are being secured and spent, 41 million kunas in the positions of the Environmental Fund as well. I am using again the opportunity to invite all those who, or at this point, have in any way destroyed or damaged real estate used the funds in question because they are already at our disposal today, and we have begun to use the first advance funds that have come from the EUR 89 million Solidarity Fund, which are at our disposal at this time. I am sure that we Grants, and for the second week already with European money, and already next week I have a meeting with Croatian and Croatian banks operating in the Republic of Croatia in order to create certain credit lines within which the Croatian government wants to engage in an interest rate subsidy so that all those who have had certain damages in their real estate in any way give the opportunity to give this dynamic, which not only you, but the whole Croatian public is talking about as quickly as possible, the shorter and the faster Zagreb is not as it was before 22 March, but the more stable and I'm sure it's more beautiful. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5831	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5832	... in response, but I have to admit that a lot of you said, a few numbers you said, but in the end you didn't say what was most important here. [[Specially enabled.]] On several occasions when we talked, you always stressed that as far as the profession is concerned, the deadlines should always be specified, money should be specified, everything should be specified. I think we'll both agree on that. Let's be honest with each other now, so the money doesn't really exist, let's be honest, we have something, but that something real isn't enough for us. This kind of conversation can be here for coffee between us, we can talk about our wishes and I want Zagreb to be even nicer than it was before the earthquake, but when you enter any project you need to have an annual plan, you need to have an annual funding source, so these finances have to be stable. We could, say, listen more to all the finance ministers together who would still cut our expenses, but still no one wants to cut the branch they're sitting on. And this is a unique opportunity when we have a record drop and we can practically cut off final finances and all the state spending with which we can't exactly say that it can be praised in front of other countries, and in general in front of the Croatian people. Again, I won't personally attack you, I don't intend to do any plays that I see are quite frequent, thank you for your response, I just hope that in the future all the answers, all the representatives of the government will always be more precise than these, and that indeed every problem will be approached systematically. That year we have so much money, that year we predict so much money, and that year maybe we don't have any money because this way we'll be expected to see and so, I don't know who that answer can satisfy. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5833	The second question will be addressed to Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic by a respected colleague Sinisha Hajdas Doncic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5834	Thank you. Your Honor, Prime Minister. The Council was about a month, a day more, a day less when the Croatian public also disgusted and entertained the video that came into the media, secretly recorded probably between the Minister of Health in your Government and Mrs. Zadarec, which referred to the contest for the selection of the director of an important Croatian hospital, so Vinodravska. Now, I'm curious, that's my question, since in that phone conversation several times and the lady in question mentioned your name, so will the HDZ top be one of the Croatian extraction bodies that decides on everything soon to decide who will be the new director of the Wine City Hospital? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5835	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5836	Thank you very much. Representative Doncic, I'm glad you're reading and following the media, following the press. We also followed your statements at the time of the election campaign, you were a brilliant analyst, a prophet who said that your ten or eleven coalition members would win about 68 terms of office, you were playing for about 20 and something. So much for your evaluations and your analysts. As for the talks between the minister and the doctor at the wine town hospital, I wasn't involved in that conversation, I suppose. As regards the selection of directors, they are selected in competitions, selected by the board of directors in accordance with the law, in accordance with the qualifications and programmes that interested candidates represent. That's the way it's gonna be in other situations. And as for your creativity, I have not seen you report to the Committee of Conflict of Interest, for example, President Milanovic, about this time in Albania, because you are otherwise known as a suspended member of the SDP presidency and notorial notary applicant to the Committee for Conflict of Interest, so these are the qualifications of Mr Hajdas Doncic for a number of topics of this character that you are now talking about. I wish you a lot of success in your dynamic, lively internal campaign.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5837	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5838	I am simply, Your Honor, the Prime Minister delighted with you as always. When you are asked a specific question you are going back to some history, so no one is ideal in society, no one is talking to anyone personally, but then I will repeat it again. Since Croatia is one of the biggest clientelism problems, and since we all know that... a body called the HDZ Summit decides on everything about who will be the head of one elementary school in Zagvozd, who will be a member of the administration or advisor of the Croatian Roads administration and since I am not satisfied with your answer because there is no such answer, I ask you once again to give me a written statement about my question. Thank you very much and I wish you very much success in such super management of Croatia and your political party.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5839	The third issue, respected Ivan Celjak, will be addressed by Minister of Economy and Sustainable Development Tomislav Ćorić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5840	Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia Mr. Andrej Plenkovic, respected ministers, respected ministers, respected Croatian Parliament president, respected MPs and MPs. Your Honor, Minister Corric. For the past few weeks, I've spoken to the workers of the refinery Sisak, my friends, acquaintances. Negotiations are under way between employers and trade unions in which trade unions seek not to cancel labour contracts for 200 workers, but to retain more workers, and to cancel labour contracts with satisfactory severance and those workers who are close to retirement. How can the Government of the Republic of Croatia affect the processes that take place in INA in view of the announced cancellations in the Sisak Refinery and in view of the announced investments such as setting up a logistics centre to build a biorefinery or solar power plant? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5841	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5842	Your Honor, Representative Celjak. First of all, I thank you for your question. Therefore, the Government of the Republic of Croatia on business decisions taken at the level of management or management of INA d.d. He can't and won't influence. It is not ultimately a function of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, INA d.d. is a company listed on the Stock Exchange and in this context we expect from this society what we observe through our members on the Supervisory Board to behave or his administration to behave in the spirit of a good master and make decisions that are in the interest above all INA d.d.. as companies and its owners, therefore the Republic of Croatia among others. As regards the current situation at the level of the Sisak Refinery, 2018. A business decision has been taken to transform operations at the level of the mammalian refinery. The transformation should take place in several directions. One is bitumen production and this production will begin in the first half of 2021. Given the investments of about 60 million kuna in that facility. The second part is the logistics center, investing in this part is about 150 million kuna. The third is a solar power plant that will be built and thus settle the good part of the needs of the refinery or plant that will be there. And the fourth, from the perspective of the government of the Republic of Croatia and the Energy Sector of the Republic of Croatia, is the most important building of a biorefinery plant. I express first and foremost the satisfaction of the fact that INA d.d. it is going in this direction, given that it is a second generation refinery which will actually allow for the processing and existence of the INA and its competitiveness at regional level in the next 30 to 40 years. given the trends. This project was the subject of study by the Committee for Decision on Strategic Projects a few weeks ago, it entered the procedure, so INA d.d. She has submitted all possible documents in this direction and we expect that this project to be announced in a future phase after all, all instances and procedures are respected, and also by a strategic project. As for the workers of the refinery, their employees, their conversation between management, the company and the unions I've met, they go in several directions. One part of the workers will continue to remain in Sisak’s position within the framework, i.e. production, or facilities that continue to operate, or new forms of business. One part of the workers was offered a transition to the position of Rijeka or to a refinery facility in Rijeka where at the moment the largest investment in the industrial facility in the Republic of Croatia since the 1990s is currently under way, so it's about a delayed coker facility worth 4 billion kuna. And for one part of the workers you are planning, and that is exactly what you have stated in your question and taking care of through severance, what certainly in the management or management of the INA is that this social dialogue is continuously going on and that these severances are usually about 60% higher than the average severances in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5843	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5844	Dear Minister, thank you very much for your reply. It is positive to plan further investments in the INA in the Sisak area and with the support of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, but I must express the dissatisfaction of all Sijscans, Sijscans and Sijscans with the business policy of MOL, which has been implemented since 2003. when MOL bought 25% + 1 share and when MOL was left to the members of the board responsible for finance and procurement because one of the first business moves of MOL was the interruption of cooperation with Sisak Croatian companies that produced clothing items for all of its workers. I also believe that there is not a single Christian or Christian who agrees with such a business policy of MOL which ultimately leads to the cancellation of the Treaty on the Functioning of Refinery Workers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5845	Now, distinguished representative Marijana Puljak will question Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5846	Thank you. Dear Prime Minister, let me begin by saying that citizens are already kind of tired of fighting and arguing, especially at these current mornings, especially some pride and rudeness on the topical clock, I would just like to say that we will not participate in it, nor be able to give cause for this time already to make suggestions, we are asking for your opinion and your government members about them, do you want to accept them and when you intend to implement them? So here's the first proposal and the questions, and we'll all agree here that our entrepreneurs and their business are burdened with great burdens, especially the parafiscal burdens that there are more than five hundred here, and we agree that these parafiscal burdens should be lifted or drastically reduced, and by reducing taxes and bureaucracy, we allow our entrepreneurs to breathe, to create new values, to create new jobs, and to create a richer society that can then be both more social and care for the most needed. I will take this opportunity here and give you a proposal whose realisation would show this government a good will to move towards reducing the burden on our economy, which is the abolition of mandatory membership in the HGK, the HCK, and the abolition of mandatory HTZ membership. Membership in these chambers should be voluntary, if members are satisfied, see that these organisations represent their interests, no one will have to be forced by law to be their member. So here's my question to you, does this government intend to abolish mandatory membership in HGK and HOK and mandatory membership of HTZ and when do you intend to do so? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5847	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5848	Thank you, well-respected MP Puljak, here I thank you both for your and MP Zurovec who together has 3 months of internship in HS on lessons about how we should behave here, which is the code and way of answering what democracy is, which is dialogue, which is debate, I thank you for that, and for Mr Zurovec, who commentes on the plan, the financial plan for the restoration of the City of Zagreb after the earthquake, and he did not vote for the law as well as your club. And you, as far as I recall, were transparently found here in the square and agreed that the representative who was elected on the list that Mr. Doncic thought would have 68 mandates would cross transparently with you two, and that Mr. Zurovec would now be the first to renew Zagreb, and against the law is, but that's good, these are the first days of the new representatives' internship in HS and it's good that with your lessons we also have the opportunity to say something about your debuts. As far as discharge is concerned, I'm sure you've been monitoring how many discharges have been carried out in our first term. I'll remind you one more time, only tax discharges of more than nine billion kunas. Administrative discharges, it seems to me, 2.7 billion kuna, action plans that went after us to reduce parafiscal and non-taxable givings, are here now Minister Horvat on second duty, but I think there will be about billions and 115 million kuna, if I remember well from our last debates in May. So, our government's policy is further discharging. The mandatory membership policy in chambers, or community that you mentioned, is a topic that has been on the agenda for years, there are certain circles interested in the incomes of these chambers or communities being 0 so that they are funded I don't know exactly from what, so that maybe some others get a space to operate. I'm so close to getting between the lines of the message you're telling us. Minister Ćoric, the new Minister of Economy, is already at the beginning of this term of office, as far as I know, having talks with the leaders of the two chambers that are in his jurisdiction, so these are HGK and HOK, and I am convinced that in the real assessment dialogue, he will look at how, or should improve the legal framework that regulates their activities, and the dialogue with the Croatian Tourist Community has a new minister of tourism and sports. I will remind you once again, and you are coming from Split, that despite the dreary forecasts of only 30% of tourism compared to last year's record season, we according to current data, thanks to the operation of HTZ, of course both the Government and the Ministry of Tourism and all the actors in Croatian tourism, now on numbers of about 50% of the best record season. So, all these organizations, all these chambers, associations, have some sense of purpose, have some of their own tasks. If they can be more rational, if costs can be lower, I think they can. Here, as far as I can see, the process of large rationalisation and costs and reduction of the number of people is under way within the HGK, but such and similar organisations have all countries and all of them act and contribute to the Croatian economy and tourism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5849	There you go, the obvious.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5850	So, here, exactly what I was saying, we're going to be constructive. We get an emotional answer like this. I'm looking for a written answer to this question, which answer should have been yes or no. From such a long answer, I can only conclude that you are not prepared to lift these membership fees. If we compare Croatia with similar countries, voluntary chamber membership prevails, e.g. in Estonia, Norway, Poland, Bulgaria, Slovenia. In fact, one of the reasons why this was introduced in Slovenia as voluntary is that mandatory membership in conflict with the World Labour Organisation conventions, which recommends the same voluntary association. If, no, I question at all the reasons for the existence of these chambers and their work, but if the members are satisfied with their work, they will be very happy to participate and pay their membership fee. In times of crisis, entrepreneurs did not turn to these chambers but formed new associations, such as the Association of the Voice of Entrepreneurs, where they voluntarily participate and voluntarily pay membership fees. If the HGK and the crafts chamber think they're doing their job well, what are they afraid of, why are they afraid of voluntary membership? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5851	5th question, respected counterpart Dragana Jeckov will refer Radovan Fuchs, Minister of Science and Education. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5852	Thank you. Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. As you know, in the east of Croatia, there are elementary schools where all classes are conducted in Serbian and Cyrillic, which is in accordance with the law. However, these schools are not registered as minority schools, which is already not in accordance with the law. The problem of registration of these schools and the issue of transfer of founding rights has not been resolved although more than 20 years have passed since peaceful reintegration. Of course, I welcome the fact that other national minorities of their school have managed to register as minority without a problem, however, I will mention that as the most common justification for not registering minority schools of the Serb national minority, the fact is that other national minorities are concerned with acquired rights, which in the case of the Serb community allegedly does not exist, although all the positive rules of the Republic guarantee the equality of all national minorities. My question to you is what you intend to undertake to register the mentioned schools in eastern Croatia attended by members of the Serb community as minority, as I remind you, therefore there are the necessary conditions for the positive legislation in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5853	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5854	Thank you very much, esteemed MP. I think it is the problem of those 3 schools located in Baranja, so where is the application for the transfer of founding rights from regional administration to local administration and indeed, the Law on Science and Education for primary and secondary schools, art. In 96, I think, this possibility is provided that if the school, which teaches in the language and letter of national minorities, and that school is also located in the area where the equality of language is established, there is the possibility that local authorities may request the transfer of founding rights to the region to local ones. This seems to me done in this case, however equally with this same law the Ministry of Science and Education of the Republic of Croatia has no authority over making such decisions but such a decision on the transfer of rights is only and exclusively in the jurisdiction of regional administration and self-government. The Ministry of Science and Education recommended that the county consider the request of the local community and only on the basis of their decision that transfer of ownership is possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5855	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5856	... just to remind you that the municipalities of Borovo, Negoslavci and Markusica submitted a request for the transfer of founding rights from the Vukovar-Srijem County in early 2015, but the same has not been done since the responsibility of the transfer between the county and the ministry. I will mention the conclusion of the 2016 HS Human Rights Committee as well as the letter sent by your ministry in 2019, which states that the Law on Education and Education in this article. In 96, it applies to all school institutions in which education is performed except in Croatian and in letter, it also implements in the language and letter of the national minority and not only these school institutions that have requested but also to others. We still have no law enforcement, I believe that you, as Minister of all your powers, will influence that these minority schools are registered under conditions prescribed by the law is wrong, it is not right to treat all national minorities as having registered schools, except when it comes to the Serb national minority, and then I cannot register schools as minority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5857	The sixth issue of respected counterpart Maja Grba Bujevic is asked by Health Minister William Beros. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5858	Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, Prime Minister, Vice-President and Minister and Minister. I'd like to ask you a question, Professor. William Berosch. The pandemic caused by the new coronary virus required, as it is today, a complex response, multidisciplinary and professional approaches, and to all healthcare professionals as well as the health system the greatest challenges of quick decision-making with the goal of saving people's lives and health. By a timely reaction produced by the health system in preparation, prevention, preparedness and response to this crisis situation, you put a geographically small Republic of Croatia side by side because of the world forces that had an adequate response to this nightmare. There were no guidelines in the fight against this epidemic, and there were no predetermined scenarios, given that the virus was more and more surprising to us every day. One of the great challenges was the need, and today it is possible to take care of a large number of life-threatening people whose lives depend on the thread, so little has passed the story of the primary intensive and respiratory centres that did not have many countries. So I ask you to explain a little bit what these centers are for, how did they come into existence in the first place, and did these primarily intensive and respiratory centers fulfill their role?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5859	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5860	Thank you very much. Dear Madam Parliamentarian. You're absolutely right. The textbooks didn't say how to respond to this threat, and I have to say that we studied and adapted to walking. The development of the epidemic in China made us aware that it could be transferred to Europe and very early the crisis headquarters of the Ministry of Health was activated and we began to think about how to respond to this threat. At first, we thought it would be enough to engage certain capacities of individual health institutions, adapt them to the treatment of patients COVID positive and also respiratoryly threatened and that this would be the way to respond. However, looking at the weight of the clinical picture, the number of patients and unfortunately the number of deaths, mostly in neighbouring Italy, we have seen two basic elements that are a crisis for an adequate response, which is the overload of the health system and early entry of the virus into the hospital means medical institutions. Trying to find an answer to these two major challenges, we have formed a strategy which is our original strategy on the need to form primary intensive and respiratory centres for the treatment of the most severe patients, but also if the number of patients who are not life-threatening and do not have a more difficult clinical picture we have prepared secondary centres. We saw very early that the Infectious Diseases Clinic, which suffered the main burden and carried it today in the fight against COVID-19 epidemic, is not enough with its size or number of respirators, have only 38 to 40, so we planned how to do it. In view of the geographical form of "Beautiful Ours", we have decided to set up in each of the major cities regionally and primary intensifier and respiratory centres, so they are formed in Split, Rijeka, Zagreb and Osijek, of course, along with such a centre at the Infectious Diseases Clinic. We hired all possible capacities, we counted how many respirators there are in the Republic of Croatia, how many stationary, how many transporters, and we tried to organize as best as possible to respond to the possible increase in the number of patients, particularly those who are seriously ill. In Zagreb, we are from a number of specific circumstances, which I am not going to talk about now, is this a more professional infrastructure issue we have decided to turn part of KBC Dubrava into a primary intensive centre with the possibility of installing 250 respirators with that, and to show thanks to the HV and yet to raise the HV expedition camp near Dubrava and install installations that allow the use of oxygen, not the respirator, but the use of oxygen which is very important in these conditions. So that was our answer, I think it was appropriate. Fortunately, we did not use these capacities, however, I can say that over 1200 patients were treated in the primary intensive respiratory centres, over 150 on respirators, and 170 were unfortunately exemplified and I think that these centres at the moment justified their purpose, but we also need to know that the future and autumn is uncertain, so we keep it in preparation all the time. Of course they were at the moment, in June when the numbers of the newly infected were smaller, they were reduced, because of the tourism we kept certain capacities still in the coast, but we were ready and able to reactivate if such a situation would occur.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5861	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5862	Your Honor, Mr. Secretary, I thank you very much for your reply. To me as a doctor of this profession is very important your answer because this is actually the best example in which you put all the knowledge, expertise, skills, ultimately and protection of equipment that is in such centres of a special kind and thus you actually carried out control of the entire system of care for truly critically ill people. The number of people treated in these centres speaks well enough, and mortality is not great compared to the significant number of centres that, or countries that have worked differently. Therefore, I think it was worth mentioning this in this session so that the general public would get information about such a specific way that Croatia responded to the most difficult patients and I hope that we will use these centres as little as possible in the future, even if I am glad that you have left them in office as it is today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5863	Question No. The 7th Honored Representative, Marijana Petir, will be appointed to the Minister of Agriculture, Marija Vukkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5864	Mr. President, the Honorable Prime Minister, the Minister. Minister Vukkovic, here is the crisis with covid-19, in fact, has shown how strategically important it is to invest in domestic food production because food supply is a matter of national security. Our citizens responded to the work, the appeal of Croatian farmers, and during the crisis they bought domestic products. But with the flexibility of the market, the opening of borders, he gave in to this original enthusiasm for the purchase of domestic products, and the imports of agricultural products again began to be a stumbling block for Croatian farmers. Farmers claim that seasonal fruit and vegetables enter Croatia at dumped prices from third countries, and analyses show that a similar situation could occur in the meat sector due to surpluses that have occurred on the European market. I wonder if the quality control of fruits and vegetables that comes to the Croatian market from third countries will be strengthened because we know that there is a possibility of spraying with non-EU protective products, so such fruit and vegetables are also harmful to consumers, except that unfair competition is also harmful to our producers. I am also interested in whether the ministry plans to introduce a product quality regulation and thus contribute to reducing imports and better positioning of Croatian domestic agricultural products on the market because, for example, if fresh meat was prescribed, the one that came from the slaughterhouse to the store within 48 hours, I believe that we would no longer have a problem with the placement of domestic meat on the market? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5865	Minister, here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5866	Thank you very much. Dear MPs, ma'am. Marijana Petir, production and consumption of locally produced food, is focused on the activities of the Ministry of Agriculture and the entire Government of the Republic of Croatia. As you said, in the course of the Covid-19 pandemic, there is indeed a strengthened national awareness of the need for increased consumption of domestic products for which we rarely point out with the right to be high quality and valuable. However, in the EU in accordance with the Treaty on the Functioning and the overall acquis, it is worth saying clearly, freedom of movement of people, goods and capital. We cannot violate the legislation or the real gain we have taken over, and all food consumed in the EU must meet regulations governing market standards, traceability and food safety. We cannot say without evidence and arguments carried out by the competent authorities that some food is less or more quality than the other. But we can also use a risk analysis to control and can say that the food that has traveled much less miles on its way to the consumer, from field to table, is certainly quite seemingly better and better quality, and we often point out that. We are considering introducing, introducing additional legislation on quality and requirements, but by checking the relevant European legislation, we have come to the conclusion that it would only be valid for Croatian producers and could, at least within a short time, cause them fairly significant additional costs and less competitiveness in the international context. What is the way that this Ministry of Agriculture and the Croatian Government points out is under 1st reduction, increasing price competitiveness, increasing productivity because it is not enough and working and invested other resources, countries and conditional throats and everything else, promoting our quality, highlighting what we know reliably, for example that 96% of Croatian milk is the highest in the first class, that 100% of the products withdrawn due to insufficient quality and health security, over 80% of those who come outside Croatia and we point out that. We can introduce a national quality label and we will and the regulation has recently identified to us the European Commission it will be Croatian proven quality and encourage investment in technology, innovation and increasing production capacity.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5867	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5868	Dear Ministers, the measures taken are certainly commendable, in particular I would like to highlight 11 measures approved during this crisis for farmers, fishermen and wood processing industry worth 350 million kuna for liquidity insurance and for retaining employment. Of course, I welcome the announcement that the Law on combating unfair commercial practices will be further strengthened. Because unfair commercial practice is early Croatian agriculture. By introducing, that is my view, I think it is very important to repeat this once again, by introducing strong controls and by prescribing the quality of the product to which we have the right as a Member State we can really reduce imports and ensure better placement of Croatian agricultural products on the market which is our interest. I agree that it is equally important to strengthen domestic food production and achieve self-sufficiency in key sectors. The announcement that the obligation of all contracting authorities to obtain food from Croatian family farms is crucial because it does not only mean ensuring the stability of the market for domestic products but also sends a clear message that it should be bought Croatian because it is the best of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5869	We are now going to the 8th question, respected counterpart Zvonimir Troscott will refer it to Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5870	Dear President of the Assembly, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs and respected citizens of the Republic of Croatia who follow us through the screen. The Croatian Army is the greatest pride of the sovereign and modern Republic and in the club MOST we believe that the Croatian sky must be protected by state-of-the-art military planes. Mr. Prime Minister, on the one hand, we have received an offer from the United States, which is our longtime ally and friend, and on the other hand the offer of France. There is a discrepancy between France's offer of aircraft and Brussels' financial assistance to Croatia. Have you, perhaps, given a conditional acceptance of the purchase of French aircraft to obtain financial assistance from the EU? And the second question, in terms of the financial assistance we received from the EU, you mentioned the amount of over EUR 22.5 billion and on this potential, I stress the potential success we want to congratulate you today because the question of whether we will withdraw all this money. However, in the light of the new sovereignty that you are propagating, can you plead to the Croatian public as president of the Croatian government why you refuse to express the unprecedented achievement as 170 billion Croatian kunas, is that not without precedent? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5871	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5872	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Mr. Troscott. I have to admit, I'm fascinated with deviants today. So, now, to quote you at the MOST Club, you think we got EUR 22.5 billion on the European Council conditioned because I, uh, agreed to President Macron that we were going to buy Rafal. Did you just say that? Do I understand you well? So, I've always felt that MOST is one cavar democracy, one gossip that happens in cafes, roads, squares, I don't know where, but this much insecure, this much insecureness that I didn't really expect. You were the last time we were here, we were talking about the European Council, you had an exposure to the EUR. The EUR-o will be on the agenda. Today you have shown that this endless lie, speculation, incredible thesis, fiction, that kind of creativity that you have in MOST I don't know whether you're a member or not, it's nowhere, it really isn't anywhere, and you've come from this activist group. So that's first, so that's one nebulosis. It has nothing to do with a tender for a multi-purpose combat plane with negotiations that I, on behalf of the Croatian Government, lead to the European Council, on what, a multi-annual financial framework which, as you know, began to be discussed after the Commission communication in May 2018, 2018. After that, the Covid crisis, not only the WFO for us, is never more favourable than this previous one, but also the second EU instrument of the next generation. What you are saying potentially, listen to what Minister Tramišak says, in our term 101% agreed on from the multiannual financial framework of 2014. – 2020, more than 40% paid total plus, minus profits for our budget, Minister Marić 28 billion kuna more from the European Funds to the Croatian budget than our payments. As for the EUR-o conversion in kuna, maybe you haven't read everything we're saying. We said 165 billion kuna, if it's 170 it'll be great, though, great. So, I'm asking you for public hygiene don't go out with these kinds of thesis, they're wrong, they're incorrect, they're decredibilizing you as a new agent at the beginning. And as for the plane, four offers as far as I know, four, not two, we don't have American on one side, and French on the other, we have Swedish offers and Israeli offers. Some other countries could have made offers, so they didn't. So these cheap, fake tricks, the illusions of some kind of deal, some kind of deal in some dark towers about us getting 22.5 billion euros out of the budget to either 165 or 170 billion kuna so that we could buy Rafal because of the incredible timeliness. Well, no one else can invent that, but the creators of the Bridge, no one, no one. It's a unique thing. Here I congratulate you on that creativity, I'm sure you'll get more support for it as creatively as you do.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5873	My colleague Troscott, I'm sorry, before you take your word for it, only a colleague, Zekanovic, called in for a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5874	Dear President of the Parliament. Of course. The 238th colleague Troscott really politely asked a question without any comment on the character and work of Andrej Plenkovic, he used the words of nebulosis, lies, deceptions and I think you have greatly violated the article. 238. Rules of Procedure, I think you should warn him. It is an item that, therefore, by its conduct, it demeans and offends MPs and it is truly unprecedented.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5875	Comrade Zekanovic, let me react if I feel it is necessary. A fellow Troscott now has two minutes' right to state his position as well, and we'll see what he says. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5876	Thank you. Your Honor, Mr. Prime Minister. Unfortunately for your reaction, we saw again that we hit the wire that hurt you again. What I want to say to you as a young parliamentary representative is that it is very uninspiring to have a Prime Minister who is incapable of answering a young person in an adequate way to questions that are really of interest to us fellow MPs, but also to citizens who follow us through the screen. The question was first asked to you because you have a problem with transparency because you have not handed over accounts from Finland yet, and overnight stays in Finland cannot certainly be compared to buying fighter planes and we are very interested in following such a large transaction of several billion euros, kuna, dollars that Croatian citizens will pay for the defence of the Croatian sky. Regarding the second question, Mr Plenkovic, I don't know if you're aware of the fact that Professor Plenkovic warned you the second time. Stigitz of the University of Colombia who said that the Croatian economy is so fragile it is not ready to enter the Eurozone at this time, that does not mean that in some future we will not be ready. And why am I telling you this, Mr. Plenkovic? Under number one, because we do not have a sustainable labour productivity, under number two or we have a deviation and divergence from the average of the euro area and Germany respectively. The second criterion is the cost of production we also have a deviation from the euro area and Germany and the third we have the structural asymmetry of the economy relative to the Eurozone and Germany for the reasons that the Eurozone is mainly directed towards production and Croatia towards services. And the question has been raised to you for reasons why by blaming economic policies and implementing the wrong monetary policy today, people will lose jobs in the future, because then we will have the only economic policy to fire workers and for these workers you will already take responsibility for today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5877	Now it is MP Pero Ćosic, he asks his question to Oleg Butkovic, the minister of the sea, transport and infrastructure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5878	Thank you very much. The Honorable President of HS, the Honored Prime Minister of the Croatian Government, the Honored Minister, ministers. Your question as you heard the Minister of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure Mr. Oleg Butkovic. Dear Ministers, we know that a number of economic branches have been found in a truly invisible business situation due to the consequences of COVID-19, but it is commendable that the government reacted in time and helped the economy preserve many jobs. And as it is evident in the consequences of the pandemic, tourism and transport sectors have been injured, and since transport is located in your respective ministry, can you tell me what measures your ministry has taken to help citizens, but also entrepreneurs in the transport sector to facilitate the situation. Well, here's what I'm particularly interested in is the situation facing entrepreneurs involved in the occasional transportation of passengers. By listening to their initiatives, we can hear that their business is really at risk because of a drastic business rule ranging from 95% to 98%. They have received these support for the preservation of jobs, but it is not enough for them, and the survival of their businesses is threatened, and especially because they say because of the short duration of the moratories and interest that account for their licking houses. Well, according to some data, that sector employs 20,000, there are 15,000 vehicles and 30% of those vehicles as they say on the lease. And here are the respected ministers who are interested in what they have done and what further measures are being taken to preserve this important branch of the Croatian economy?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5879	Here you go, Minister, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5880	The Honorable President of HS. Your Honor, I thank you for your question. As you asked yourself when you asked the question, this situation in which we found ourselves was the most affected by the pandemic of the virus by all segments of society, but primarily tourism and transport, and in this sense we were parallel to the Ministry after the government took a whole series of measures to preserve the labour measures and liquidity of the Croatian economy and Croatian entrepreneurs and we brought some measures that were naturally welcome, and they were right to save the Croatian economy of course, to maintain it and to facilitate and maintain what was important to us, and this is a good tourist season. So in this sense we made several decisions, one delay in the seasonal increase in ticket prices on ferrys, the other is that there was no increase, 10% increase in tolls on highways, and, of course, 3rd that we introduced additional discounts for the 3rd and 4th category of vehicle on Croatian highways, in order to, of course, help that part of truck traffic work better. On the other hand, measures have been taken as regards, of course, the maintenance of transit corridors, all done in agreement with the EU Commission and countries, of course in the environment and EU members, and during the pandemic, rail freight transport was increasing, so there were no problems in that part. What is crucial, that we have prepared one document, is a programme of state aid intended for the transport sector, and the Government of the Republic of Croatia made a decision at the end of June, that is the total value of the funds allocated to people who met the criteria and, of course, to companies that met the criteria, and on the other hand, HAMAG Bicro will do so within a few days, as they still sign contracts with business banks. As regards occasional transport, the category certainly had the biggest blow, since the occasional transportation of passengers to Croatia is the most dependent on tourist season, passenger transfer, excursions, etc. Since this was not the case, I have received a number of representatives of the occasional transport of passengers along with the Ministry of Tourism, since we are in that section and overlapping, I will not say in the inauguration, but in fact in the activities that they are dealing with, and in this sense, of course also measures by the Government of the Republic of Croatia which have now been brought and extended to 31.12.2020, have been very helpful and I know that they really needed it, and on the other hand, these 600 million kunas that go through HBOR and this particular one, namely HAMAG Bicro, because they are for these smaller companies, and this will exclusively be used in occasional transport, I think they will really be something that will help them maintain their business. What's left of the problem with the occasional transport, these are interest moratories, we're, we're not in charge of that part of the government of the Republic of Croatia or the Ministry, but, of course, we've appealed to the Leasing House to accept this one proposal and some of the Leasing Houses have accepted the moratorium and I think it's a good decision, but here, on this occasion, I appeal once again to others for about a year, because we believe that the situation will still be better. to accept that, too. [[Intruder: Thank you Minister.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5881	There you go, the obvious.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5882	Thank you well-respected ministers for your detailed response from which this is definitely visible that both your ministry and the Government of the Republic of Croatia have taken certain measures, reacted responsibly and in good time, and so here with its reactions it has preserved the economy in such difficult conditions, but here, this 2020, in addition to all these measures, will surely remain remembered as years with one reduced economic activity. Here, yesterday we had from the media, we could read that Jadrolini and the Croatian roads, as their income fell, at 70% of last year's revenues, while airports had a very large decline and achieved only 20% of last year's revenues. This 70% income is certainly sustainable for me for a short time, but this 20% income is unsustainable and these companies need a lot of help, these, help with these measures. These measures are mostly, mostly, well caused by the pandemic of the coronaryvirus, and here I support all these measures that the government has introduced and your ministry to continue further assistance to preserve jobs by the end of the year with 4000 kuna for each employee of these companies and companies that have a lot of income cuts, meaning below 60% of last year's revenues. I also welcome these so-called. "Covid credits" which, here, may allow these most affected to survive this time and here, I would ask you perhaps for further efforts to make talks with credit institutions, leasing houses, to help these most vulnerable ones, because long-term neither will go well if this lasts longer, so you should change some, re-edit these credit relations.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5883	I would now ask representative Vladimir Bilek to refer his question to Minister Natashi Tramišak, Minister of Regional Development and EU funds, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5884	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. President-in-Office of the Croatian Government, vice presidents, respected ministers, ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Well, as you said, I would like to ask my question today to the Minister of Regional Development and EU funds, Mrs. Natasha Tramišak. We know that, and we see from the report that indeed in the past term, the absorption of EU funds has been increased. Of course, part of it... State as such, part of that unit of local and regional self-government. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course, the problem is little with the fiscal capacity of these units of local and regional self-government, especially as a result of this pandemic and budget default in those desired or planned ways, so here is my question to you, whether this and next year's public calls for co-financing of the implementation of EU projects at local and regional level for 2020, or for 2021, so that all the projects that have been approved can also be implemented and all the other projects we have planned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5885	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5886	Thank you, distinguished and respected MPs and MPs. Dear Representative Bilek, I thank you for your question. With regard to the co-financing fund for the implementation of European structural investment projects, for units of local and regional (area) self-government. In order to increase the absorption of funds precisely during this programming period from the European Structural Investment Funds, the EU Ministry of Regional Development and Funds since 2015. implement through public calls to the Fund to co-finance the implementation of the projects. Up until now, 5 public calls have been opened, nearly 950 million kunas invested in co-financing of precisely these projects. What unfortunately happened at the beginning of this year, which is that due to the pandemic of the coronary virus, it was necessary to rebalance the state budget and the funds for most investment projects at the level of the EU Ministry of Regional Development and Funds were reduced. The following happened with the Fund to co-finance the implementation of European projects. What is important to mention is that we are still in talks and agreements with the Ministry of Finance in order to find a model for a long-term and sustainable solution that would not additionally burden the state budget, and found a model for local and regional self-government units, their budgetary and extra budget users to have an additional amount of co-financing of projects so that they can project the whole project more realistic, more correctly and themselves. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5887	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5888	Thank you very much, dear Minister. Well, just as you said those nearly a billion kunas over the past few years, it's made it possible to run projects for local and regional self-government units. There are many projects supported by the Government, let's say I don't know through measures 741 and rural development and regional development where the construction of kindergartens, such as in Jelisavec, in Josipovac in Doznovec, is where the construction of unclassified roads, roads that lead through settlements where people have neither asphalt nor paved banks nor anything else, and that's why it's important that such a fund and that such competitions continue so that we can carry out these projects until the end and that the municipalities can complete and finance these projects and implement them, so that they will not be retired in the end and here, so I hope that we will also get such co-financings in the future so that we can carry out the major absorption of projects and operationally. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5889	Issue number 11. Honored representative Ivana Posavec Krivec asks Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5890	I thank the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues, I will refer my question to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Mr. Andrej Plenkovic. Dear Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, did you speak to your Minister Tomislav Ćorić, a minister who holds two extremely important resolutions in your government about how special arrangements were made in his cabinet, I will freely say a preferential price for wind-powered investors, Milenko Bashic. A few days ago, in silence, the government resolved the assistant minister, Mr. Validzic, because he was affected by the USKOK investigation. You often repeat in the media that institutions should investigate all those involved in this investigation. But I am particularly interested, and I believe that the Croatian public is interested as well. Do you think it's possible that the minister didn't know what his assistant was doing to him? And do you know that the same minister is, or perhaps, better to say, is that the same minister, Coric, who signed a study that went hand in hand to investor Bashic? In short, I ask you, have you, as president of the Croatian Government, taken every effort to shed light on what was done in your minister's cabinet? Will you continue to act uninterested and marvel at every time the BOOK digs up something new about one of your people from your government? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5891	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5892	Thank you very much, well-respected representative Posavec Krivec, a colleague from the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs. As for the fight against corruption, the best fight against corruption, the only rights and the right, when DORH, USKOK, PNOSKOK in the police are doing their job fully, independently, impartially and professionally and that their work brings results, which is that in the legal process provided that there are doubts and if it is proven before the court by those who deal with corruption. It is the only principle that leads me and as Prime Minister both as a politician and as a lawyer in this matter. And that's exactly what this case is all about, which you mentioned, that in the time of our government and the DORH and BOOK and the police are doing their job independently of what persons and what officials are subject to their interest. And that's how it's gonna be. As far as you're concerned, you've said, in silence, he's not in session at the government, under the Staff Issues, released within an hour of the government meeting. There's no other silent procedural context for someone to be removed from that place. As for Minister Ćorić and the Ministry of Environmental and Energy at that stage, so I want this topic, this topic, this topic of CEMP to be enlightened not at this final stage, this is the end of the story phase, and I expect it to be played out, the bench, since 2003, since the project started, since 2003, when the project started, even in 2010, and then in 2013, let's put it on the table so that we can see what was important, who and what decisions it was and why it was made in the context of this project of CEMP and wind power plants. That's what I'm interested in. As far as Minister Coric is concerned, he has repeatedly shown himself on this subject, several times, we have talked, as far as I understand he had absolutely nothing to do with this, and what of this process will be proven in the process that has yet to be followed, but I remind you, let's unwrap the bench completely and see who's there, as well as what he's done on the subject. There were also people from your party, MPs of yours once, members of your government who were quite loud media on this subject, remember little of that, it would be good to remember that too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5893	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5894	Thank you... HS. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, it is obvious that through this response given by the Prime Minister on a very specific question, it is clear that there is a certain amount of anxiety in this government. No wonder this is a matter of the functioning of an entire ministry, of suspicions of a very widespread corruption network. So, Mr. President, USKOK has revealed one link to you, another link in that corrupt chain, and it's obvious that this corrupt chain has stretched through several ministries. Of course, the question is, how many years has it gone through all these ministries and how well it's been in those ministries to live. You have one fine answer for all of us and for Croatian citizens, this is the answer we could expect, and it reads "let Croatian institutions do their job". I will only remind you both of you and the Croatian public that this is about persons, all persons under investigation, all of them were members of your government, not only were they members of your government, they were members of your party. Therefore, for no reason do I ask this question to you because for me, as an representative in HS, you should be an example of how the Croatian government should function, and you should be the person who should disburse all these corrupt stories. So, I'm curious if you, as president of the Croatian government, have done everything possible to disintegrate this corrupt story? Minister Tomislav Ćorić himself says that his path is the most connected to you, to you personally. So if you're as close as Minister Coric says, it's important to know and what you knew and what you're doing that this government isn't building such a corrupt network as it is, according to a USKOK investigation, built by your past government? [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5895	Now let's go to question no. The 12th Honored counterpart Hrvoje Zekanovic also sets it up for Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5896	Dear Prime Minister, I asked you a question exactly a year ago, so I'm going to ask him again because I didn't get an answer last time, and you had a year to think about the answer. The first question was about General Milivove Petkovic, you couldn't remember that General Milivo Petkovic, later I explained to you who he was, today I mention him again because today is September 16th, here's General Medved I suppose he knows very well, the day that Sibenik was attacked and defended in 1991, and General Milivo Petkovic, who chats in The Hague, was a war commander and a man who was responsible for the defence of Sibenik. I know for a fact that you haven't contacted him at all during your term of office, and not in this last year. I call you, here's not only a question but also a suggestion one, even a request, here today call him, there's even a video connection, you can communicate with him, call him, he'll be extremely glad that this hero of the Homeland War, who is in The Hague, gets a call from the president of the government of the Republic of Croatia, so you can ask a friend of Milanovic to call him, too. The second question is about this fashion detail here, which we are wearing, which Mr. Jandrokovic just told me to wear out of solidarity. Your scientific advisor to the government, Mr. Lauc, said it doesn't make sense. If we're gonna be a solider let's go, then everyone who took the pressure pills this morning let's all drink them. So make a deal, that inconsistencies of headquarters again. There's Minister Berosch. People who will be vaccinated tomorrow, someone will want to be vaccinated, will he have to wear a mask because he said it, did you say it either Mr. Jandrokovic or Berosh or does that make any sense? There's also a colleague, Malenica, who's also over it. And finally a short question, even though you would have 100, when are you going to protect your life from its beginning or from conception?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5897	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5898	Thank you very much, Mr. Zekanovic. I'm glad you've recovered from the crown. At one point there were some echoes that, how was it “the root beer against the crown ” and ultimately a severe disease, was it so? You didn't hear right. Okay, you know exactly what I'm talking about. I'm glad you're okay and that you have antibodies and that you're resilient, that we'll all be glad. As far as six issues are concerned, therefore our government as well as all other governments of the Republic of Croatia have actively worked through a number of aspects, legal aspects, experts, support, communication, to provide certain support in the process. I guess you know that. In the Croatian government, the subject is being dealt with logically and properly by the ministers of the judiciary. Talk to Minister Bošnjak, and you will hear details about the activities. As far as these other topics are concerned about your plays about mask, not mask, etc., all these issues are procedural, including announcements, legality and constitutionality of work in HS, I leave HS, I am not the address for that. Okay? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5899	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5900	Mr. Prime Minister, again you have not answered my questions, General Petkovic you did not even mention what I was listening to, you mumbled at the beginning, I didn't really understand you, here are the colleagues mentioning that you mentioned some kind of beer, I don't know now. And look, people get sick here and there and you've been sick in the '90s, so you're well, I'm glad you're well, but I would never enjoy it, so your illness, how you're actually kind of enjoying yourself between the lines, how you're making fun of it, so it's hard to be sick and you've been sick, so thank God you're healthy today, we have a healthy Prime Minister. You didn't answer my question about protecting my life, you didn't answer me. Why didn't you? I don't know why you didn't. I'm afraid you'll take that step today and call the General... Friday's, so here's maybe General Bear does it. Here I invite you generals to take my fellow prisonmate for many years, and he is as well responsible as you that today Andrej Plenkovic is the Prime Minister because he has made it possible for the Croatian people to be free, it would be really nice to remember him. As for the mask, it's not the performances of the Prime Minister, but you have one function that's most responsible in the country, and then I ask you as the most responsible man to take your stand on it. And your scientific advisor here has a clear attitude, so I guess when you pay him, you take his advice. Mr. Lauc made it clear that he has antibodies because he has them, I have them, and Minister Malenica has them, and he doesn't need to wear any more masks because he can't be infected or who he can infect. Why do you pay Lauca if you don't listen to him? I don't know now, do you pay for it? The government's scientific advisor allegedly, I assume you're paying him. Okay, maybe volunteering doesn't matter, super even better, so thank you for volunteering.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5901	Let's ask question number 13, dear colleague Danica Baričević will ask the Minister of Regional Development and EU funds Natashi Tramišak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5902	Dear President of the HS, dear Prime Minister, respected ministers and ministers, respected colleagues and colleagues, I welcome you all together. Here's the minister, by passing the Island Law after 20 years, a basis was created for a better quality of life on islands through demographic revitalization, through a better transport connection, through a more quality economy. Minister, tell me how much funds are invested in the government's mandate of Andrej Plenkovic in Croatian islands, and are the islands now foreseen in this new multi-annual financial framework? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5903	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5904	Dear MP Baricevic. So, as you pointed out to the Island Act, a regulatory framework was created as one of the essential preconditions for further development of the island. What is important here to point out is that in the previous term of Prime Minister Plenkovic's Government, from national funds, almost 450 million kuna was invested from the state budget through various programmes implemented on islands, which in capital investments, promotion of the island economy, Croatian island product, but also what is additionally important for mentioning the subsidisation of the health water price. One of the crucial issues for the island's own and island population, where the government's decision has already been taken in the previous term to increase the subsidized amount of water from 45 cc's to 85 cc's throughout the year without constraint. One of the very important items that the islanders themselves highlighted as very important to improve in relation to all the conditions they had before. So you also mentioned the importance of new programming, i.e. a new EU multi-annual financial framework since 2021-2027. I will point out on this occasion that at the end of the development of the National Development Strategy, it is closely related to new programming. One of the key priorities and areas of intervention are just the Croatian islands, the 1244 island register, is finished, islets and rocks classified according to the law. What is additionally important here is to point out that together with regional development agencies and regional co-ordinators where island coordinators are classified, we will start drawing up an island development plan together with the county development plan. All the projects and programmes that need to be addressed in the island area here, I mention, in addition to what we have highlighted, we will program in the new programming period 2021-2027 in the framework of NUTS 2 of the Adriatic Croatia region. So we expect one bott up approach means intensive co-operation with islands with cities, municipalities and counties that include territorial jurisdiction over islands. In addition, I would like to point out that 5.5 billion kuna has been invested in the development of the island in this past period since 2014-2020. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5905	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5906	Here is the life and work of 140,000 island inhabitants, indeed, of many specific features in terms of life on land, and there are also great differences in living opportunities for those living on large or larger islands than those on land. Indeed, the ministers take care of the islands with a number of specificities, and I am pleased and for every commendation are all these funds and investments by the Government in the mandate of Andrej Plenkovic. I am pleased that your priorities will be within the future financial framework of the islands, and they have indeed now become an area of pleasant and safe life for the local island population, are certainly attractive as a tourist destination and certainly a positive income for the Republic of Croatia. Here as an island girl, I am pleased that tomorrow in the multi-annual financial framework there will be indeed opportunities for craftsmen and entrepreneurs to do their entire annual business on the islands because I always say that islands are unprocessed gold in which it is worth investing in the welfare of all islanders. So, I am convinced that the Government of the Republic of Croatia, headed by our island, Hvar's Andrej Plenkovic, will continue to advocate, especially for the sustainable development of the island in light of island self-sustainability, self-sufficiency in light of the future of smart islands, which is the concept of EU development for islands. And certainly delights me and in the light, here is pure energy, a clean and healthy environment for the life of us islanders. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5907	Question number 14. MP Mirela Ahmetovic is asking the Prime Minister, Andrej Plenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5908	... [[Speech is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5909	I'd like to ask you to step off, dear colleague. You can go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5910	Dear Prime Minister, Milan Bandic and HDZ co-operation has been going on since 2016 when Milan Bandic offered 2 hands in the assembly for the parliamentary majority, and you took them all the same. However, HDZ has always skillfully supported Bandic, that behind the back, behind the eyes of the public, but you are also responsible for this co-operation and this partner-corruption relationship because, indeed, HDZ is under your direction, and has strengthened this relationship in the Zagreb Assembly. And this relationship, or agreement, is very simple and understandable, Bandic can devastate the Zagreb budget, and you have the parliamentary majority. Today, all of a sudden, the Zagreb HDZ opens its eyes and says Bandic is leading Zagreb into a abyss, and your hand has pushed our biggest city right into the abyss and you can't escape from it. So I ask you, Prime Minister, does the lack of HDZ support mean a report on the implementation of the Zagreb City budget that Mayor Milan Bandic no longer has your political protection and we can expect both here and Croatian citizens to finally see him go to Remetinec, or can he count on your political protection until the end of this term? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5911	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5912	Dear MP Ahmetovic, for a moment I closed my eyes and thought Mr. Maras was still in the assembly. I don't know what caused you to come from the island of Krk here and colleague Baričević is an islander, you have a bridge, but Krk is an island, you open a topic, you come from VIII. The constituencies that have nothing to do with the I. Electoral Unit have to do with the City Assembly of Zagreb. So, my standard friendly response to your predecessors here in the assembly, who used the Croatian Assembly and this assembly for the topic of the City Assembly to address your fellow members and members of the SDP in the City Assembly and to raise city topics where they belong. Your illusions, the illusions that someone is enjoying political protection, and then something is going to happen to him, or it's actually going to happen to him as we are these days in a broader process of disclosure, it's a very important word in this context these few days, as you look at it. So that means it's some colleague of yours you're voting with on some budget then you'd probably be protecting him. Therefore, I suggest that we talk about LNG for the second time, that we talk about the floating unit for admission, storage, exploitation, that we talk about that the ship currently travelling to Croatia will be operational from December 1st, that there are significantly reduced costs from the original EUR 380 to EUR 233 million, that in this way we will ensure energy independence, diversify gas supply, that Croatia will thus strengthen its position on Europe's energy map. These are topics that I sincerely expected you to be interested in, not to engage in anything caused by the city's assembly, the topic of the capital. When the elections come, and the elections will be for all units of local and regional self-government it will be in May this year, then HDZ will have its candidates as it always has for all key duties, all cities in particular large cities and for the City of Zagreb and for all counties and I am confident that we will trace these fantastic evaluations of the results of your colleagues' parliamentary elections and candidates in the SDP presidency elections which had just asked the question again a little better result than you are projecting in your analyses, and they were about 68 MPs on July 5th, so it was barely top 40 and with 10 partners. Here, I thank you, and let these topics be discussed in the city hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5913	Before answering just a second, a colleague of the Voice raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5914	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, you have failed to warn Mr. Prime Minister that he has defiled Article 14. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, which gives the right to a parliamentary representative in this case, the MPs to ask the prime minister whatever he wants in the Croatian Parliament, is there a guest and he has to answer politely, not to document what she should ask him, and what she should not ask. It is of public interest to know and hear the answer to the question why why the citizens of the Republic of Croatia have already been victims of corruption, the corrupt agreement of Milan [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Bandic and Andrej Plenkovic. [[Intruder: Fellow Voter Thank you, time is up.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5915	There was no breach of the Rules of Procedure here. The Prime Minister can answer the way he thinks he's good, he's right. Of course, then Croatian citizens will judge whether they liked the answer or not, but there is no breach of the Rules of Procedure here. If you were to take such a restrictive interpretation of this Rules of Procedure, then I would have to make warnings almost constantly. Here's my colleague Ahmetovic, the obvious.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5916	Dear Prime Minister, we could have talked about LNG when it came to him, but you refused, you didn't respond to any of my memos, and then you lied to the cameras to communicate with the local self-government unit specifically the Omisalj municipality. You've never made contact with me, ever, because you don't care about the people of the Omis municipality. And your pompous answers and behaviors tell you everything about you, and someone in your face has to tell you that. You've lost your moral compass and it won't last forever. No one's burned until dawn, so neither will yours. One day you will have to stand before the Croatian citizens and answer for all the corrupt actions that are happening under your patronage. What I have to admit to you, you're inexorably reminding me of wartime profiter Ivo Sanader, be careful not to end up like him.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5917	What would you do now, my fellow Voicer, if you were me? You would probably tell me to warn my colleague Ahmetovic, but as I said then and now I'm behind it, each of us here is responsible for what he says, what he says, as embarrassing as it is, and falsely sometimes it is. Let's move on now, now it's time for the respected colleague Josip Saric to ask Ivan Malenica, Minister of Justice and Administration, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5919	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, the respected presidents of the Croatian government, vice president and ministers, a question for Minister Malenica. Dear Minister Malenica, there has been a debate in our public space for a long time on the reform of local self-government. The various ideas, proposals, reflections, some suggest the abolition of the counties, significant reduction of municipalities, radical proposals in terms of limiting the mayor's mandate, municipal mayors and mayors, the government has made it clear in the programme that it will raise the effectiveness of state and local and public self-government and regional administrations, one of the measures envisaged to achieve this goal is a significant reduction in local officials and the possibility of functional integration of municipalities. Dear Minister, can you tell us what you have done so far to select a smaller number of local officials in the next elections, what changes are you proposing, and if we could expect these draft laws in the Croatian Parliament? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5920	Your Honor, Minister Malenica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5921	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Honorable Representative Saric. You have well pointed out that in the Government's programme for this term of office, there is therefore a strong statehood and as one of the objectives, a supportive, effective and transparent state. In that sense, we at the Ministry of Justice and Administration have prepared amendments to the three laws relating precisely to the achievement of these objectives. So, the Law on Local Self-Government, the Law on the City of Zagreb and the Law on Local Elections. So that amendment of the law is heading towards reducing the number of local officials. In the 2017 elections, we totaled 1321 local officials, out of that figure, 745 are deputies. These amendments will reduce the number of deputies by 645. Also, while respecting the importance of the representative body of local self-government units, the number of members of representative bodies that are now around 8200 to about 6600 would be reduced by about 20%. The aim, therefore, is to further fiscally strengthen local self-government units through the reduction of local officials and the reduction of local members of representative bodies. Some kind of our calculation framework is that it's a figure of about 100 million kuna that would therefore strengthen the fiscal capacity of local self-government units. As for the abolition of municipalities, therefore, it is the unit of local self-government, so it is a subject that is always active in public space, in political space. You who come from one unit of local self-government, not just you, but a number of MPs here, understand the importance of the unit of local self-government and how much of the total number of units of local self-government and regional 576 we have in the Republic of Croatia, so much more important the quality of the services provided, the standard of these services and the satisfaction of citizens in those units of local self-government. If we were to compare this with some countries that are similar to Croatia like Slovakia where there are far more units of local self-government, we are going in this direction to strengthen the quality of services, to increase the standard of people living in these local self-government units in this sense, so we are going towards functional integration of local self-government units. What some think is never going to happen, so already happening, we also had a meeting at the Ministry of Finance on the subject this week, we have next week and meetings with the Association of Cities, but 3 municipalities have shown an interest in functional integration so that I believe that this functional integration will lead to certain results, that actually citizens will worry more about the quality of services than whether there are 576 or 428 units of local self-government. So through the implementation of the Government Programme, I think that we will come to the point that citizens will also be satisfied through a project of optimization of local self-government units where we will have information in one place about all units of local self-government that will therefore be the basis for us in this functional integration and increased efficiency in the work of local self-government units. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5922	Dear Representative Josip Saric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5923	I thank Minister Malenica, I think this is a good road, functional integration of municipalities. Namely, I am the mayor of the 7th term, a little unusual for Croatian occasions, so I allow myself to say that I understand very much the local self-government, which is exactly what I would say, and I would say that just as you have commented here that Croatia does not have too many municipalities, cities and counties if we compare ourselves with other European countries, I would say that we have a well-hitted local self-government that we have done since 1993, that is to say, during the time of President Franjo Tudjman and HDZ, then this model of local self-government was established. The results of such a structure are much more functional, much built, much more quality local self-government, much better living conditions in all our environments, from the smallest village to the largest city. Another important detail in the development of local self-government is happening precisely with the government of Andrej Plenkovic and this reform that is currently being implemented, and I especially want to focus on functional and financial decentralisation by introducing so-called. The Alignment Fund, there is Minister Zdravko Maric, and I congratulate you on that. In this fact, the introduction of the JLS Fund, all small municipalities, smaller cities, those environments that could not finance their normal life, the development of projects, the development of municipal infrastructure, have now come into a position to finally develop evenly as other parts of the Republic of Croatia. So here's what I think is a necessary word when we think about the future of smaller municipalities and cities that we do with them. Thank you very much. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5924	The 16th question will be asked by the respected representative Krunoslav Katicic, Deputy Prime Minister and Finance Minister Zdravko Maric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5925	Dear Vice-President, Prime Minister, Minister and Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. As he said, the question was addressed to the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance Mr. Zdravko Maric. It is known that Croatia is on 10 July 2020. entered the European Course Mechanism, so-called ERM 2, this is kind of a lobby, meaning entering the EUR-o. We have to stay in it for at least two years. and, and the recent conference "Golden Key", the conference of Croatian exporters, discussed all the advantages of the introduction of the EUR, since the disappearance of the so-called "Golden Key". currency risk, exchange costs by facilitating the conclusion of the business of Croatian entrepreneurs or to the business of foreign companies in our country to attract investment more effectively, drop interest rates not only for the economy but also for the citizens. But in front of Croatia, so-called Many measures of convergence economic criteria to be met in order to enter the European zone, from exchange rate stability, prices, low inflation, interest rate limits and some other conditions. Given the situation related to the coronary crisis, how much is Croatia in the beginning of this challenging autumn to continue to meet and how are these criteria? And as a matter of fact, after this so-called. The grace of the period of power, will it enter the European zone in the term of office of this government? Thank you very much?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5926	The reply of the respected Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance Zdravko Maric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5927	Thank you very much, Vice President HS, Your Honor, thank you very much for asking and for your comment. As you yourself have said, this colloquial term lobby, so one long process of introducing the EUR, deliberately speaking and mentioning the word "process" because it is indeed something that, as in the present stage, things have not happened overnight, so neither is what follows ahead of us. I'm just gonna go back and elaborate and confirm these words that I'm saying. So you are well and correctly confirmed when Croatia formally entered the exchange rate mechanism 2. A year before that, the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the CNB signed a letter on our intention to enter the foreign exchange exchange exchange exchange exchange rate mechanism, and we would also come into a situation where we could send such a single letter to be considered at all, certain steps should be made, above all, in the field of fiscal policy and the budget itself. You know it's a long time ago, until 2016. Croatia had very high budget deficits, a growing public debt, and certainly there were no circumstances in which the country could address European institutions with such one intention. We have been responsible for this business, stabilised public finances, and among other things we have met the conditions that we can move on to these further steps. The Corona did not offer us in this way or in some way deter us, we confirmed our credibility and in general credibility and everything we did because, in such difficult circumstances, we fulfilled everything in the letter itself in some way, and now we have a period in front of us which, as you yourself did well in the matter and in your comment, implies with yourself the fulfillment of these so-called so-called things. convergence criteria. As regards the timeframe, the minimum 2nd year, the experience of the present countries that introduced the EURo, from Slovenia 2.5.g. up to Lithuania as much as 10.5.g. So, I repeat again, nothing will happen overnight, so there's still a lot of work ahead of us. Price stability, exchange rate stability, interest rate stability, these are all things that our citizens know very well and translate these convergence criteria into the language of each of our citizens, I think it is not necessary for me to say, but it is enough for them and I can understand it. At the same time, the stability of public finances has just been confirmed and demonstrated over the past years, which actually means when you have no balanced public finances and when you have below the investment credit rating and everything that is related to it and to interest, but also to some of your reputations and business conditions and everything that you as a country offer to any domestic or foreign investors. As far as our plans are concerned, already in the budget for next year, despite the fact that the provisions on temporary suspension of fiscal rules are still in force, because the circumstances are as they are, we will surely propose a budget which will be credible, which will respond to these challenges which are still prevailing because the vaccines still do not have, there is still a lot of uncertainty in all considerations and reflections, but also a budget that will be strong and strong enough for Croatia to maintain such things, but also to send a clear message that Croatia plans to meet these convergence criteria, not only because of the EUR itself and the process of introducing EUR, but also because it believes that Croatia has a strong and credible fiscal policy. In any case, the answer to your last question, which is very short, I believe that during our term of office Croatia can introduce EURo. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5928	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5929	I thank you very much for the very comprehensive answer I think that what you have said, the continuation, means the implementation of these.../incomprehensible/... proposed measures will in a way significantly strengthen and revive and strengthen our economy, which is likely to have for the finale and for the purpose of falling interest rates, which is quite important in all the turbulent times that have been happening, especially for Croatian citizens. When this situation is being added to this, especially with a large part of Croatia located in Zagreb, we need to enable, be careful and take great care of the so-called. public finances to enable interest rates and credit institutions in some way to enable citizens, as well as the economy, to finance. I think we're on a good track, I think all these measures you said yourself are going very well. I'm glad to hear you're not stopping with that, that they're not... As far as the crown of the crisis is concerned, I think it will all be ultimately for the benefit of all our Croatian citizens. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5930	Question No. 17, counterpart Miro Bulj sets up Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5931	Prime Minister Plenkovic, I would like to ask you a question since you were in Split-Dalmatia County yesterday. I don't know if they're familiar with you that people in the Dalmatian Zagora are not safe from illegal migrants who have become increasingly aggressive lately, literally endanger people, kidnap people, steal their property, destroy their vehicles. I don't know if you'll use and protect these people, as you call yourself, safe Croatia, people down there are insecure, they don't feel safe, whether, in accordance with the law adopted on the 2016 border, you'll direct the army, Croatian, proud, to the Croatian border and finally respect that tool, that law and respect the Constitution for the citizens of Dalmatia and the Dalmatian Burn, and so does our entire borders because the police are doing their job, but there are not enough material and technical conditions. Once we see that the Slovenians have headed for the border towards Croatia, when we know that 60,000 illegal migrants are now on the border, we know that they will escalate the problem in Greece, so everything will come, basically in Croatia. Will you ensure the safety of the people of the Dalmatian Fire? Also, I'd like to ask you, yesterday you were talking about projects for Dalmatia. Two years ago, you had a government meeting for 2 billion kuna. 0, nothing came true, you promise 22 billion now from potential European funds. Tell me what's going on with these projects. And another question at the end for you. Corona's crisis has revealed a lot of bad policies, you've stated that you've identified the National Staff's mines. Can you tell us, parliamentarians, who, who choose the government, are the ministers of the National Civil Protection Staff? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5932	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5933	Thank you very much, Mr. Bulj. I don't know how you, as a sovereign and defender of the kuna, are now suddenly talking about 22 billion euros. I thought my colleague said we should speak 165 to 170 billion kuna, that would be correct. Is it true? To be consistent. As far as migration is concerned, I will repeat our policy to you once more. Our policy is to protect Croatian police borders. More than 6,000 Croatian police officers are day and night guarding the Croatian border, which is long, which is complicated to keep in certain parts because there are no natural borders like rivers and certain migration pressures exist. That's why all this time since 2015, '16. so far in this eastern Mediterranean or so on. The western Balkan route has been shown by Croatian police as the institution that is acting on the trail of protection of Croatian interests, on the protection of the Croatian border and does not allow illegal migration. And for that, on behalf of the entire government, I thank them once again. True defence from a possible new migrant wave should be formed at the border between Greece and Turkey. Between Bulgaria and Turkey, possibly. I was personally there, as you remember, in early March and unlike earlier, the left Greek government, the government headed by our party colleague, my colleague Mitsotakis, therefore, the government of the European People's Party, is maintaining a firm Greek-Turkish border. It is tightly guarded and does not allow for walking through Greek territory towards the countries of Southeast Europe and further towards Western Europe, or EU member states. At this point, we do not see for now any valid reason to engage the Croatian Army. If ever some hypothetical circumstances are such that the tasks currently done by the Croatian police are such that because of the number of people and material assets and technology we use cannot be done on their own, we can consider other options. Now that's not the case. However, at the level of the Ministry of Interior, at the police level, we communicate with us neighbouring countries on the issue of migration, we take care of this issue at EU level and we seek to protect our borders, our citizens and their property, and we will continue on that trail. As for the Split-Dalmatia County, yes, I was in Split yesterday, I talked to the mayor and the mayor, we discussed a number of projects, and we also remembered that the government’s decisions of workers employed in the private sector in the Split-Dalmatia County were paid to preserve jobs of 600 million kuna. 600 million kuna from this Croatian government for the preservation of jobs in ev. let's say so to our Split-Dalmatia County, Representative Bulj. As for the projects, numerous projects, and Minister Butkovic, I don't know if he is there, is in Split next week to discuss a series of infrastructure projects that are primarily related to his portfolio and continue to implement conclusions, government decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5934	It's an obvious fellow Bull. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5935	Thank you very much. The prime minister's response to your colleague Troscott when you returned me to the euro and kuna you were in your speech too much Balkanism and cardioism. I hope it comes out of this assembly, that it's past time. And as for the migrants themselves, here a few days ago in the Slovenian media, Chancellor Kurz said Austrian that the open door policy was a mistake and that everything would be done so that illegal migrants would no longer enter. In HS, you did not allow discussion of the Marrakesh compact, and this is part of the plan, all the countries and neighbours did not accept the Marrakech compact. The prime minister of 60,000 migrants is currently at the border of a thousand kilometers, where our police are unable to control it with all their efforts. People are at risk of lives, lives and property. They literally kidnap people with a gun and recently an old man at the age of 77 led through the woods. People are afraid, it's not your agenda, safe Croatia, people are down insecure. And anyway, the few people who've been promised a free project that's gone, there's very few left, they don't feel safe about themselves. As for the projects to the prime minister, 2 billion kunas three years ago has been promised, so far nothing, zero this government, nothing. The fast road compound Sinja on the highway, irrigation of the Sinjsko polje, irrigation of the Imotsko polje, a compound of Knina, a tunnel that is promised through Kozjak, through Ravce-Drvenik 10 times opened, Dračevac military, means only promises. And what you gave Dalmatia, Dalmatia much, much more in the tourist season. You didn't give anything to Dalmatia, you only take Dalmatia and that's why people leave. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5936	Let's move on, counterpart Damir Habian asks Darko Horvato the minister of spatial planning, construction and state property. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5937	Thank you very much. President-in-Office of the HS, the Honorable Prime Minister, Minister, Minister, counterparts and colleagues. As you said, I'd like to refer my question to Minister Horvato. Here is a new public call for subsidising housing loans published today, which has so far proved to be an excellent demographic measure, taking into account in particular that more than 13,000 young families have benefited from the same measure in 2017. If we look at the report on the implementation of that measure, nearly 8,000 families have settled their housing issue by buying an apartment, over 3,500 by buying houses, and 1,300 young families have built a house. Given all of the above, the very simple question, are you planning to continue with this commendable project in the coming years? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5938	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5939	Thank you, Your Honor, for the question and for the fact that someone has noticed that a public invitation has been issued today. Therefore, in order to resolve the housing issue, primarily young families, the Croatian Government adopted the Law on subsidisation of housing loans in 2017, a law aimed at fostering the demographic restoration of Croatian society, urban regeneration of the settlement and the reduction of the number of young families moving out of the Republic of Croatia. In September 2018, 2018 and 2019, and in March 2020, and today, the competitions in question have been opened in September, and since the 28th of this month, young families with an interest will be able to submit their documentation and apply for such a subsidy. The grant for residential credit lasts for five years, increases by two for each newborn child and subsidies range from 30 to 51% depending on the index of development of a particular municipality or city on which the property is to be built or purchased. The decision to grant credit subsidies has been made so far, and will continue to be made by APN or the Real Estates Agency. In this year 2020, subsidies continued, so the first tender was opened from 30 March to 30 April, 3,681 requests were received, and with including today, there was a conclusion of 3,014 subsidisation contracts. To this day, more than 13,000 families have in this way resolved the housing issue, and more than 1,750 children were born within those 13,000 families during that period. From September 2017 to September 2020 The Government of the Republic of Croatia paid a little more than 243 million kuna for this incentive measure, in 2017 slightly more than 2.4 million, in 2018 slightly more than 41 million, in 2019 slightly more than 73 million, and so far this 2020 slightly more than 126 million, which is cumulatively more than 243 million kuna paid in the form of such a subsidy. We in negotiations in preparation for this contest invited all banks to join this programme, responded 14. They offered a better interest rate than she was in any of the competitions so far. So the interest rate inside the banks ranges from 2.12 to 3.5%. Today, a public call has been made. The making of the documentation is already at full stage, we have been examining, by preliminary examination of the general interest in the competition in question came to the opinion that in this competition there will also be a registration of just over 3,000 they will begin to receive since 28 September. Assets for the payment of that subsidy to banks By the end of this year, it is secured in the state budget. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5940	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5941	... Minister for Response, and I hope that this debate and this information that you have presented here today and the conditions will therefore certainly interest all these young families who think to answer the public call in question, and I think we can all agree that housing is certainly one of the conditions, you mentioned it yourself, in fact the remains of young families in our country and Croatia. [[Specially enabled.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5942	The 19th issue, respected counterpart Marin Lerotic will ask the Prime Minister, Andrej Plenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5943	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Prime Minister, here are some 1,600 workers and 500 OPGs directly related to the Kanfanar factory, the Bat factory in Kanfanar, and unfortunately we are increasingly hearing about the possible relocation of production plants due to unfavourable business conditions. When we know that the plant or BAT makes nearly 5 foreign investment in Croatia, then it is clear to all that leaving the factory would be a major blow to the Croatian economy and the Croatian budget. You visited the factory in June, however, so far there are no concrete answers to the question of what is going on and whether production in Kanfanar will stay, and workers and their families are waiting for answers. Here, I ask you this way to give a concrete and clear answer to what you're doing about the rest of the production in Kanfanar. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5944	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5945	Thank you very much, Honorable Representative Lerotić. As far as our Government's engagement in these topics is concerned, but also a number of other topics that are related to the Istrian County, I think we have shown this in the past term, and we will show this in this mandate that Istria is important to us, that the Istrian economy is important to us, that the Istrian infrastructure is important to us, as well as that it is important to us to complete the Istrian Ipslon, that we have a particularly important General Hospital in Pula, that we have important investments in tourism, that we have an important key signal for the recovery and operation of the Oilics within the new society based on the decisions of our government, and that we also care for further activity of the British American Tobacco factory in Kanfanar. It is true, I visited the BAT in June, I spoke to the company's leaders, as you know in Croatia after they bought that factory from the previous owner several years ago. When they bought it, I wasn't a salesman, neither were you. As far as I understand the agreement between the seller and the current owner at the time and the buyer was that they would stay in Croatia for a minimum of 5 years, and if they leave early to pay for certain foams, so I understood that there were circumstances. Therefore, it is very important that the public has full information and understand this context because it cannot be understood from your question. It is very important for us as Government to keep our jobs, to keep foreign investors, as well as to maintain a link between tobacco producers, for example in Virovitica-Podravska County, there is a Minister of Ex Bedekovic from that county who knows very well what it means for tobacco producers as well as for workers who are in Kanfanar. Minister Maric is having talks with the BAT representatives and I am confident that we will find a solution that is in line with the government's general policy and also with certain topics put on the agenda by the company's representatives. Therefore, the government is engaged, the talks are going to last, we will be sure to come up with a quality framework which will keep workers and allow this company to continue to be present on our market and with production, and not only with products and to continue to be export-oriented as it already is today. Therefore, the government will find a solution for BAT.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5946	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5947	Thank you for your response, unfortunately it was not unequivocal, we will continue to follow and hope, as you said in the end, that you will find a solution in order to continue production in Kanfanar. What is also important to us is that Croatia simplifies the business process in Croatia to all entrepreneurs, not only tobacco factories in Kanfanar, and in such a way that we try to encourage direct foreign investment as much as possible. As for the hospital and the Istrian capital that you often say when it comes to the investment of your government in Istria County, you know for yourself that the Istrian County in the matter of payments to the state budget is already 30 years in surplus or much more in payment than it is being paid back so that we welcome these investments, however, not enough for us in IDS, but primarily citizens and citizens of Istria to be satisfied, and therefore we expect further, further investment in the area of Istria County. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5948	20th question, dear counterpart Milan Vrkljan, again goes to Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5949	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, the respected prime minister of the past term, the Croatian government ended 2 months ago, left 10 billion debt behind in Croatian health care. In this 2 months. The new government where you are headed, the debt of Croatian health care in only 5 largest Croatian hospitals, in the KBCs, has increased by 300 million kuna of a new debt. I won't ask Minister Maric if he thinks it's justified as soon as possible. and half a day put 500 million kuna into that system, the results are nothing, and I will not ask Minister Beros why this is happening, because if you remember, the notor Dr. Zadravec has kept telling our minister in that video that she is protecting people who have devastated financially and professionally our hospitals specifically hers, and he answers with a calm voice, but "Diana, you know that I am not deciding" and for this reason I will not ask the minister of either one but you, what are you going to do in health so that every couple of hundred million kunas are not thrown in every few months, but that the system is being taken away from the hands of the people who professionally, financially and in any other way devastated and that there is not one area in which all of Croatia can go bankrupt? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5950	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5951	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Vrkljan. I read here and I get it very well, and you work in Vinograd? ... Do you work in Vinograd? ... [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Well, that's easy, then. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Well, then that's it. We got Mrs. Wess here. Ahmetovic, who has so far been speaking about how someone will be burning candles and by the time, alluding to ending in a sense that should be a charge of corruption, and now, instead of asking that topic that you've singled out, the health funding of a colleague, Beros, who comes from the same hospital as you, Sister of Mercy, you're raising a theme towards me, I guess I'm deciding about hospitals. I don't make decisions. We all decide on the Croatian health system together, we decide on the problem he has, we are aware of the growing costs of Croatian health care, we are aware of the need for rationalization, we are aware of the problems for better organisation of the supply of medicines, especially expensive medicines. As much as it seems to me and there have been many of those here who have insisted on expanding the list of medicines that are particularly expensive, we today seem to be spending, Zdravko about a billion and 700 million kuna on particularly expensive medicines and this trend continues, so the costs are always more and I don't see initiatives coming from the system for rationalization. As far as health reform is concerned, it is a key task in this mandate of Minister Beros, and it will focus 100% on all activities concerning the successful work of curbing COVID 19 in the Republic of Croatia so far. Therefore, I also call on you as a doctor and a man who understands this subject that in the talks with the minister and through the committee in charge, you give initiatives that will help reduce debt above all in Croatian health, rationalise costs, better connect hospitals and reduce costs of procurement, because that is how far I feel, as far as I am concerned, a framework on which we must continue to do everything possible for our citizens and the costs that are on the other hand are sustainable and especially in the new context of our fiscal circumstances. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5952	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5953	Your Honor, Mr. Prime Minister, I am deeply convinced that a colleague of Berosh I've known for 30 years, if he has his hands free and can draw both the human and financial moves he personally considers to be correct, that he will run health care and get him out of this mess. You must know that 60,000 health care workers listened to this response that wasn't adequate. I remind you that the Republic of Croatia is the country with the most amputations of patients with diabetes in the EU. I remind you that HZZO is the only insurance house in the EU that does not follow the outcome of treatment. That HZZO is the only house in the EU that does not follow the outcome of a drug that has been placed on the market. Mr. Prime Minister, that is not the consequence, it is not the consequence of the system, but of the unhappiness and incompetence of the people who run this system. I'm asking you nicely to let Minister Berosa do his job, I said I've known him 30 years from the Wine City Hospital and I know he's competent to arrange the health care system properly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5954	Comrade Vrkljan, I'm just asking you to speak with a mask like everyone else. Let's move on, there's now a respected colleague, Ermina Lekaj Prlaskaj, who asks the question of Tomislav Čorić, Minister of Economy and Sustainable Development, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5956	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, Honored Prime Minister, Honored Minister and Minister. As it is known in the Republic of Croatia and mostly in the Primorian region, it is doing several thousand seasonal craftsmen. In their seasonal crafts, they work mostly in hospitality and tourism up to nine months. as self-employed persons, and throughout this time there are active insurance and pension and health insurance bonds. Thanks to both the good part and the engagement of the Croatian Chamber of crafts, seasonal crafts are included in support for the preservation of jobs from April and beyond. This enabled the payment of cash aid for about 7 and a half thousand craftsmen, which also contributed to the preservation of jobs. Dear Minister, my representative question concerns the further fate of the season craftsmen, and I ask you to answer me what measures the Ministry of Economy and Certain Development plans to take further and do this in coordination with other institutions or independently? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5957	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5958	Dear MPs, Lecai Spray, thank you for your question. Therefore, as regards measures to assist the economy, they are continuously implemented in the coordination of all economic resources of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, in this particular case the Ministry of Economy on the one hand and, of course, the Ministry of Labour on the other. Seasonal craftsmen or craftsmen, as well as other groups of entrepreneurs in the Republic of Croatia, are covered by measures to preserve jobs that involve, as you know, subsidising part of the salary, in their case up to 2,000 kuna on the one hand, and by measures to preserve jobs through increased liquidity of economic operators, in particular in the case of craftsmen. As far as these credit lines are concerned, they are available at HAMAG-BICRA. These credit lines, as such, include loans or credit arrangements worth EUR 1,000 to EUR 25,000 which actually enable liquidity and survival to be settled in these unfortunate times, especially in the context of the fact that you refer to the seasons located in the coastal part of Croatia, so they usually work in, during the tourist season in tourist activity or catering. For artisans who before the crisis had credit lines or used credit lines, the start of the crisis was arranged for a moratorium by the end of this year. What we're going to do at the Ministry of Economy in the next period is actually extend measures as you know and that decision was taken at government level a few weeks ago. On the one hand, measures to preserve jobs and subsidise salaries and, on the other hand, more intensive lending of economic operators, as well as craftsmen. HAMAG was granted an additional billion kunas a few weeks ago for covid-19 loans. In that direction, we'll go beyond New Year's, of course, in the next phase. So, logic is very simple, and with this I will end up, on the one hand we are working on preserving jobs through co-financing, and on the other hand we are working on all commercial entities that need to get liquidity through credit lines, in this case HAMAG-BICRO, in cases of larger companies of course HBOR. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5959	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5960	Dear Minister, I thank you for your response and I hope that these measures you said will be implemented within a reasonable and appropriate time. I also hope that these measures taken to overcome the current crisis are also the only guarantees for the successful recovery and development of our economy. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5961	Now it is up to a respected colleague, Ivan Penava, who points his question to Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5962	Thank you very much, esteemed President HS, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, esteemed Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia and Ministers. Citizens of eastern Croatia, Slavons, Srijemci, Baranci, have no conditions for living as other citizens of the Republic of Croatia, conditions for a man of dignity. It is said rarely, unfortunately no one at the level of the state is involved, but the citizens of eastern Croatia have, for some time, actually lived in the curfew regime because they simply cannot stay out in the open like all normal people, because it is simply impossible in those parts of the time period between 19 and 22 hours. It is impossible to perform established ordinary shops, walk the city, stay in nature, be in your own backyard, work in the garden. It's for our citizens a luxury that unfortunately I can't afford. The reason is mosquitoes. According to the results of the monitoring of CDC traps in the area of VSZ was caught in Babina Greda 202, in Vukovar 356, Bobota, a village in the municipality of Trpinj 412 mosquitoes, while everything above 150 is considered unacceptable. Data from the Osijek-Baranja County area speak of numbers over 10,000 mosquitoes caught in the same traps. The measure of the spiral man method, which means within 15 minutes where the man is actually a bait in the city of Vukovar, there were 277 landings and stabs in 15 minutes. Like this. But I didn't hear a warning or anything. [[Employer: Comrade Penava, time is up]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5963	Well, now it's going to be your answer, but I don't know what you wanted, two minutes at your disposal, here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5964	Question, if I may direct, will the state take this issue, will they do anything about it?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5965	Thank you, fellow Penava. Here you go. Turn off the microphone.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5966	Thank you very much, Mr. Penava, for this matter. Of course we're familiar with the mosquito problem in the east of Slavonia, but also in other counties. Last year, we made certain decisions at government level, adding additional funding that allowed so many mosquitoes in certain cities and counties to be prevented. You know that this is a topic that is in the jurisdiction of both cities and counties if the state with its measures can and should be helped from its level. We are, of course, prepared to make it easier for our citizens to endure and run from 19 to 22 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5967	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5968	Thank you very much for your answer. So, one fact saddened, and before there was a company, it was called the Industrial Aviation in the Slavonia area, or in particular Osijek, was numbered in its composition of 22 aircraft. Unfortunately in Slavonia these days and these years there is one single pilot, 64 is authorised or licensed to fly is unfortunately not worth it to anyone. What we witness in Slavonia, the closure of the company so that sugar can not be paid for, that milk is not paid for, that the largest biodiesel plant in Vukovar is not paid, but unfortunately when we can't and when it's worth producing milk clearly that these companies can't exist. This kind of thing is clear that according to the law and according to the law, the units of local self-government are in charge, but I must say that we, as the most residual part of the Republic of Croatia, are merely on the example of the City of Vukovar, setting aside about a million and 300 thousand kunas on a continuous basis throughout the year, the treatment of what is lurvicid, which is adductic acid or mosquitoes. It is simply that unless aid comes from the level of the state and this problem is accessed comprehensively it will never be solved if this problem is the point of solving each unit for itself, especially when considering that we are living in the border area where it is needed and that we are talking about an area of even five counties where a comprehensive approach is needed. And in that direction, I will see this answer as satisfactory, expecting support in terms of the law that we're going to make. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5969	Let's move on. Now it is up to MP Vesna Nadj to refer the issue to Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5970	Thank you, Mr. President of HS. Dear ministers and ministers, colleagues and colleagues. I have a question for the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia. Mr. President-in-Office of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, having in mind an affair over state-run examinations and former State Secretary Josipa Rimac, which you have taken to prevent officials in the Government of the Republic of Croatia from trading in influence and abuse of positions and powers in the future? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5971	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5972	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Nadj. As far as this whole process is concerned, part of the penalty policy is also prevention, deterrence. I believe that many who might think of doing such a thing in the future won't do it anymore and that's good.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5973	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5974	Thank you very much for your answer. It is indisputable that we have a strategy to combat corruption for the period 2015-2020 and an action plan on the strategy. In the 2019-2020 Action Plan, the Anti-Corruption Strategy provides for the development and public presentation of an online anti-corruption manual for state officials on the prevention of corruption, the prevention of conflicts of interest, transparency and public procurement and financial responsibility. Obviously, there is a major problem with political corruption or large corruption, large corruption among senior state officials who use their political power to play the legal system and to gain even greater political power. We can bring anti-corruption strategies and action plans, but if you name officials the positions of people who do not have ethical integrity, if the organization culture in the government is by system I help you, you help me, and God help the citizens, we are sick of all strategies, action plans and laws as a prevention of corruption. It's all actually on the team that you chose and the obvious lack of control mechanism. How could it happen to you to refer to the Council for the Prevention of Corruption established by the Government in 2017 as Josipa Rimac? When you let a cat in the mice, she won't just play with them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5975	Question number 24 of the respected counterpart Ante Deur will be asked by Deputy Prime Minister and Croatian Defence Minister Tomi Medvedu. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5976	Honorable Prime Minister, President of the Parliament, respected ministers, fellow MPs. Your Honors Minister, given the need for veteran centres to advance this project and how pleased are you?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5977	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5978	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Deur. You know that our government is fully systematically and responsibly accessing all those programming areas and issues related to the relationship with Croatian defenders and victims of the Homeland War and of course is one of the measures that we have been monitoring, directing and now we are in the process of building them. Therefore, these veteran centres will provide professional assistance related to psycho-social empowerment and physical rehabilitation, advisory assistance, support for employment, involvement in the retention of entrepreneurship and work of associations. After we regulated all the administrative processes and related to developed ideas and main implementation projects, issued construction permits, implemented public procurement processes, we started the process of reconstructing construction of the building for the establishment of veterinary centres in the locations Daruvar, Petrinja, Sibenik and Sinj. The total value is 328 million kuna, and I particularly stress that 85% of the total finances and 280 million will be co-financed by the European Regional Development Fund. And here I stress the importance of Croatia's EU membership and the investment of funds in order to create a prerequisite for a better life for Croatian defenders and victims of the Homeland War. The grant agreement with the EU Ministry of Regional Development and Funds was signed on 17 December 2019. In May of last year, with all these cities that will be built, or where veteran centres are being built, we signed agreements establishing our mutual relations. The works started in Daruvar on 8 June 2020, in Sinj 10 June, in Sibenik on 17 July and in Petrinja on 22 July 2020, the deadline for the construction of all 4 veterinary centres is 18 m. Since the beginning of the work. The preparation of procurement documentation for all 4 veterinary centres is under way and the public procurement process will be launched in the fourth quarter of this year. The programmes that will be implemented within the veteran centres will certainly include, or will include, all those details and all those proposals in cooperation with local stakeholders that participate in the measures provided by the Croatian Defence Ministry to Croatian defenders. So this is one of the programs that the Croatian Defence Ministry is fully supporting the entire government and the Prime Minister is following and we are confident that it will be realised within the planned time period.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5979	There you go, the obvious.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5980	Dear Minister, thank you and thank you to the entire Croatian government headed by the president, certainly as you said yourself, these projects are very important, important for Croatian defenders and members of their families, but above all, this is a good thing that you emphasized that all 4 of these centers are certainly these 18 months. a good deadline which proved as well as the centre in Lipik that this was excellent and that Croatian defenders very well accepted both health and the situation as a whole. Thank you again to you and the Croatian government.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5981	Now let's go to Question 25, Representative Sabina Vosovac is asking him to the Prime Minister, A. Plenkovic, please. No, no, it's off.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5982	And I'm sorry, I got the wrong key, thank you. Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable President of the Croatian Government. I believe that you yourself have had the opportunity to follow in the media these days how Mr. Vuksan, a longtime HDZ member who has acted for 22 years as Head of the Municipality of Podbablje today acts as Head of School in Zagvozd, employed in the accounting of his school, his daughter, by chance or by no means, also to a member of HDZ youth, but in a protest he is not only employed by his daughter but also by his bride and his niece, but we return to our daughter. The end of other candidates and candidates with experience in accounting affairs, the director chose his daughter as he said in a hilarious but also bizarre mini interview in one press, she was poor unemployed, worked for years in insurance, shops, trades, and without constant incomes, complained just as her husband, his son-in-law who works at the baustela. At that time, this director introduced a new concept of urinalism and created a new definition of rope and wider family, namely, says that in this employment and suspicion of nepotism there is no word because she is no longer his daughter because she married and left. Mr. Prime Minister, do you see in this case potential nepotism, abuse of position and authority and system error in the system, or is this normal for you? If this is not normal for you, my question to you is what will you do in this mandate in order to arrange a school employment system and thus, and this time, to give some comforting word damaged in this process of getting a job but also to count others in public competitions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5983	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5984	Thank you very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, I've only seen the titles of that case, I don't know the details, in any case it doesn't seem normal or usual to me, I believe that those who need to check it, check and make appropriate decisions and conclusions, believe that it's not easy from the position of the Government, or the Minister of Science and Education to have insight into all the details of competitions in some cities or municipalities and especially in educational institutions. Let him see everything in that case, so let the decisions be made, I have no problem with that, though.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5985	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5986	It's actually quite simple, the skirt and scissors are in your hands. I'm sorry you've been through the last four years. We missed the introduction, which you missed or kicked out of the law obligation to license the director that would lead to professionalising their call, but also reduced the impact of policies on school staffing. Equally the previous 4 years. You've introduced a new norm into the law, and that's what it is. the testing of school employment, which unfortunately serves many in practice only as a fig leaf or the law-making of pre-arranged tenders, because actually those candidates, or that candidate or candidate who will be chosen, are getting questions very often in advance. Mr. Prime Minister, these are all the things you've failed to do in the past four years, but it's not too late because you've won the vote's trust recently. And I am saddened that you do not see in this opportunity to send a very clear message, I will fight against nepotism, abuse of position and authority in Croatian schools. But unfortunately, I am not surprised at you because you are unable to fight these phenomena or in your government from which as many as 10 of the 15 ministers left in the previous term because of serious suspicions of corruption. I'm sorry that you're so elegantly blinking from things that are very much about your responsibilities and you don't want to take responsibility, take responsibility. Something rotted in the state of Denmark, and it's up to you to move that rotten apple because it could infect the whole, the whole basket, but you just don't want it, it's just a question of whether or not you want to, fight corruption or protect corrupt trade by influence and position?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5987	26th question, dear colleague Dario Hrebak will refer to Oleg Butkovic, Minister of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5988	Thank you, well-respected President HS, the esteemed Prime Minister of Croatia, ministers and ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs, respected and respected Minister Butkovic. Since 2009 Bjelovarcani, residents of the Bjelovar-Bilogor County, expect a fast road to reach Bjelovar. Unfortunately, until 2016 very little has been done about this, but here I have to be satisfied with the good cooperation and the city of Bjelovar and your ministry, thanks to the government's support since 2016. Much has been done about this and since the opening, so the fast road to Farkaševec, here are currently 5 kilometers away from Farkašec to the town of Bez, which is the suburbs of the town of Bjelovar, but there are 12 kilometers left, 12 kilometers left that residents of the town of Bjelovar and Bjelovar-Bilogor County are eagerly waiting, eager to see the final fast road and the 12 kilometers reach the town of Bjelovar. My question is, when can we expect competitions to be called, what is the status of these remaining 12 kilometers, we see daily, we go to Zagreb, we travel to see how this section continues to Beza and the good intensity works, but here are our fellow citizens asking me when, we can expect a call for the remaining 12km of the road to the town of Bjelovar? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5989	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5990	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Representative, as you mentioned in the question and said, building a road, a state road D12 that is actually going from Vrbovac knot to Bjelovar, so Virovitica ends up at the border crossing of Teresa's field, it is part of the total value somewhere around, the total length of about 87 kilometers and in 2017. There is an open section to Farkaševec and after that we are going in, according to Bjelovar and the first 5 kilometers after the contract and the contracted works are under way, the works are ongoing, and the complete technical documentation is being prepared by the end of 2020, so by the end of this year. We're going to open a public tender for the remaining 12 kilometers somewhere in early 2021. By the way, as far as the value is concerned, what we're doing right now, these five kilometers is somewhere around 110 million kuna without VAT, and the rest of them, those 12 kilometers will be about 300 million kuna, we already know that. So early in 2021. the tender will be opened and, of course, agreed as soon as possible, it is now depending on the percentages of complaints, etc. The entire section of this road, since it is probably interested in further or Virovitica most in that part, we have, for one short share from Virovitica to Spilic Bukovica, also launched a tender for implementation, and the entire project, which is totaling about €100,000 and €800 million, is all prepared from environmental impact studies, which is made out of all the documentation that will be needed to run according to the entire project, according to Virovitica or Teresa's field according to the EU Funds for the next operational period, so that we go further with the whole project, we are particularly emphasising Bjelovar, but should also mention Virovitica which is very important to join in this mandate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5991	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5992	Thank you very much for your response, I'm pleased to know that the last 4 years. What we did was that everything was as we agreed, as our fellow citizens in Bjelovar-Bilogor County were expecting. I remind you that this road is also in the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the next four years, and here I am pleased with this response. I believe that's what's really going to happen because everything we've done in the last four years. to suggest that it will also be in the future and that residents of the town of Bjelovar and Bjelovar-Bilogor County, but what we are particularly pleased about and the residents of Virovitica-Podravna County will be looking forward to further continuing the construction of a fast road towards Bjelovar and Virovitica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5993	Now, counterpart Josip Boric will address his question to respected Minister Nikola Brnjak, Minister of Tourism and Sports. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5994	Thank you very much, esteemed president of HS. Honorable Prime Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. I'm going to ask my question to the Minister of Tourism and Sports Mrs. Nikola Brnjak. Dear Minister, in 2020, a specific year of life in our homeland, but throughout the world, marked by a pandemic of coronavirus causes. In the election open and have a tourist season or not in such a year, the government of Andrej Plenkovic decided to have a tourist season despite all the risks, all the possible risks she carries and despite those who were against and even the political options that even here in the Assembly do not say that having a tourist season was a big, big mistake, as one SDP colleague said. I couldn't believe the SDP's position was that we shouldn't have had a tourist season. However, we are having a tourist season and what we must say is that we may be among the best of all EU countries and it is good that it is still going on. I come from the island of Rab which today records more than 2,000 registered tourists and can tell you or pass on to you and the satisfaction of the catering workers, tourist workers, small tenants with this tourist season compared to the expectations we had before it started. My question to you, distinguished minister, despite the COVID crisis, and since we are learning in the 9th month, can you tell us more about the current course of the tourist year and the measures that will preserve the tourism sector in the future? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5995	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5996	Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you, Honorable Parliamentary Representative, for this matter. So, even though the projections themselves showed that it would be a decline in tourism traffic by 70%, we achieved good tourist results, especially in July and August. In July, we had 53% arrivals and 61% overnight stays, in August it increased to 54% in arrivals and overnights to 64%. When we look at it cumulatively, we're about 53% compared to last year, which we can really say is good tourist results. So, the most successful day of this season was 11 August with more than 10,000 tourists visited by the Republic of Croatia, and these are tourists from emitting markets most from Germany, then Slovenia, Poland, the Czech Republic, Hungary and Italy. As for most of the capacity during both July and August, we can really say that they were satisfactorily filled. When we look through the OPGs and look through holiday houses, they reach even 80% of last year's capacity during the summer months. There is, of course, a boat and marina with about 70% traffic compared to last year, charters with 60%, and also very good results are recorded and hotels as well as camps with about 50% of last year's overnight stays compared to when we look at the month of August. We believe that this season has been extremely good for a number of reasons, primarily because we have applied all epidemiological measures in time and thus provided the Republic of Croatia as a safe destination for both foreign tourists and domestic guests who have very well recognised it. The government also took measures to preserve jobs only the day after the 3,250 kuna earthquake during two months of March, then for April, May, June, July, August of 4,000 kuna, and we continued as you saw with the support measures of those most vulnerable, which is precisely in the tourism sector. Also through the digital tool Enter Croatia has made it easier for tourists to enter the Republic of Croatia and the workers themselves who were in the tourism sector have their work, their adherence and epidemiological measures show that guests are both domestic and foreign safe within the Republic of Croatia. I am here to say in daily contact and in conversations with tourism sector workers who are delighted to accept these measures and to continue measures. Why? It is also important for them to prepare, to continue and prepare for the next tourist season. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5997	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5998	Thank you very much. Your Honor, I am pleased with your response. These announced measures are certainly good preparation for the next tourist season and we really need to be active both as a ministry and as a government to help continue the tourism sector because the 50 million nights that have been reached are good let's say one, good bet or stock or even a break, let's call it that, to all those who have been afraid that we will welcome the next tourist season. They are still expecting the help of this government and I hope that we will really do everything we can to keep the tourism sector in the maximum possible form because it is certain that, given the experiences we have from this year to next, we can say that we expect a much better season than this one was in 2020. Once again, thank you for supporting the tourism sector and all tourism workers, and for the fact that we should have had a tourist season let them think carefully about whether this is a good way and a policy to follow.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u5999	The 28th issue, Michel Jaksic, asks the minister of the sea, transport and infrastructure, Oleg Butkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6000	The Honorable President of HS, colleagues and fellow MPs. Of course, the Honorable President of the Croatian Government, Minister of Ministers. My question will be for the Minister of Transport, Mr. Oleg Butkovic, and at the very beginning, I must say that I thank my colleague, Mr. Hrebak, for the ball. What is historically written back 15, 20 years ago is that when it comes to connecting the fast road with Zagreb and the rest of Croatia, our part of Croatia, was always talked about the sub-Bylgorian ipsion. In the past 4 years, according to Bjelovar, there have been certain investments, according to Koprivnica, the investment was not even one metre, and I also hope that the loss of shares according to Koprivnica was not found in the official government programme that we adopted just over a month ago. Therefore, my question for Minister Butkovic is, at which rate and at which hodogram we can expect a continuation of the work on the section from the Križevci towards Vojakovak Kloštr and also, at which rate and at which point we can expect a continuation of the work towards the town of Koprivnica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6001	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6002	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor. Thank you for your question, but since I was somewhere at the beginning of my term in the last term, where I was in Koprivnica in 2017, so I met with both you and the mayor, I would not say and I would disagree with you if nothing had been done in the past term. We must be all aware of this, and this also applies to Mr. Bulja's question, we had a meeting of the Government 4.5.2018 in Split and then on that day for all major infrastructure projects in Split-Dalmatia County, and this also relates to Koprivnica-križevska County and other counties and all major infrastructure projects, it is not possible in 2 years or 3 to start from 0, to make all projects, to create all studies and to start building or building some major infrastructure project. This is not possible in Croatia, it is not possible in some other modern and better countries that Croatia is looking for. Let me go back to your specific question now. As for the road, State Road 10, which goes from St. Helena to Dubrava, towards Gradec, Križevci, Koprivnica and ends at the border crossing in Gola. The road came to the Križevci, it was opened at the end of 2016, and we immediately started designing and making all the documentation, it was also necessary to coordinate and, of course, spatial plans in your area, which you know very well, and that was not the case. And we have called a tender and arranged the works for the first section of Križevci-Kloštar Vojakovici total length of 7.5 km, the performer was selected and very soon the works on that section will start. The total value of these works is 270 million kuna without VAT and Croatian roads are starting to build. The rest of the stock according to Koprivnica, we signed at the beginning of this month, i.e. the Croatian roads signed a contract to develop an environmental impact study and all ideas with a total value of 4 million kuna, meaning we are also attacking that share, project and study, and as soon as it is done, the competition will be held to end the road to Koprivnica, and the rest towards the border crossing of the Gola, it is still not defined because we have to agree a merger point with our colleagues from Hungary or the Republic of Hungary, so it is in some procedure and that is, here, some dynamics. So the cloister, the Križevci-Kloštar Vojakovsky shares, begins with the works, the performer is selected, and the documentation is continued according to Koprivnica. I must also mention that in Koprivnica-križevci County today the largest infrastructure project in Croatia is being built. This is the continuation of the Križevci-Koprivnica-Hungarian border, financed by the Connecting Europe Facility. It is 350m euros, so we are very much present and, of course, we are taking care not only of Koprivnica and Križevci County but of the even development of the whole of Croatia, of course we will continue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6003	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6004	Thank you. You've turned my question around, not God, to say you didn't do anything. It's been a lot of paperwork, although we have to say it's sad and ugly, but it's something that's been told a lot more than you and I have had in our years, that after 30, 40 years of discussion about that road we're back on paperwork, but, what you've got, with that nod. I said that in four years, not one foot towards the Military Kloštr and Koprivnica, which is true. I welcome what you have said and it is certain that in the first shovel, given how many promises have been made so far, I will express my satisfaction with this and what I must just point out is that this is one correction of the historical injustice because the first major international corridor that went through the Republic of Slovenia in 1873 was exactly the track on which the European project is now being implemented, and in the future some drawing of road corridors carried out in the Republic of Croatia, this very corridor towards Koprivnica was usually bypassed for some reason. I must also point out that the economy of Koprivnica and the Koprivnica-Kristevnica County has earned this because we have always made more payments in the state budget than we have ever had before in Europe's projects since this crisis we have now had, due to the Corona, has shown how important the economy of the Koprivnica-Crysing County in the Republic of Croatia is because, just to remind you, one of the first companies that has paid their own profits in Koprivnica and in the markets it has just been... So I welcome this initiative, but because of the years of promise and prolonging, at the first shovel, I will express my satisfaction. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6005	Now, respected counterpart Mario Kapulica will issue a question to Davor Bozinovic, Deputy Prime Minister and Interior Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6006	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Prime Minister, dear ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs. Illegal migration, which is why the issue is and managed by the Minister of the Interior is always contrary to the laws of the state. Both the origins and the transit and the destinations to be entered, and sometimes it succeeds, without meeting the conditions of entry, residence or work in those countries. These are all topics dealt with in a legislative sense by both this Assembly and the previous sessions. However, of all the cities of illegal migration, and there are several, the most dangerous are those organised by organised crime groups, and the system that stands against these most dangerous illegal migrations is primarily border police and customs that are on the first line of defence of Croatian borders and whose ability and efficiency is often as well-intentioned as possible and unwittingly challenged. And in this House we have heard various assessments on this subject and on this system, mainly in the context of seeking to challenge the Croatian army to our borders, until our border is easier to cross as an illegal migrant than a Croatian citizen. How important is the issue of trust in the state and its institutions, for every country and its functioning, I ask you, how resistant is our system to organised illegal migrations? Have you so far detected any cooperation of individuals from the Republic of Croatia with those behind the organized... migration and how do you comment on statements that question the functioning of the system? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6007	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6008	Thank you very much for that, counselor. First of all, thank you for reopening the issue of illegal migration, which is one of the biggest and continuous security challenges for the Republic of Croatia, and because of the circumstances primarily caused by the coronary crisis, this is a little less discussed although this challenge does not give less than when we statistically observe the numbers of those people who want to enter Croatia illegally and the Croatian police prevent them from entering it, let's just say this year more than 16,000. You also opened a very important issue of organised groups because these people would not come to the Croatian border, they would not have come long before the Croatian border if someone had not helped them. There's a wide range of different spectrum of those who help them, but in these final stages, it's mostly organized crime, we're up to the first eight months this year. So Croatian police filed 406 criminal charges for 374 people who participated in organising illegal entry and crossing the territory of the Republic of Croatia. So far, Croatian police have arrested more than 2,000 such persons, so organisers, of them 30% are Croatian citizens, so 2/3 are not. I can only say roughly that the members of these or the perpetrators of these works are more precisely, coming from 31 countries, mostly European but mostly from the neighbourhood. So, when we talk about the challenge of this kind, Croatian police have been organised back a few years through operational groups involving mobile teams and all police families so that you can finally see and by media reports, it doesn't pass a day, two that there is no information about a group of illegal migrants, their helpers who have been arrested. And this is a challenge that we will unfortunately face for a long time because the problem in our area is that they are trespassing particularly in BiH, so the eastern border of BiH is practically not a problem for them, we see that the political situation in BiH is complicated because what we have pointed out is happening, especially in the UN-San canton, that this will be a major problem for BiH. We will continue to protect Croatia's borders in accordance with our, in accordance with European legislation, however, and make a contribution to the creation of a common European policy in this respect and it does not go as easily as you know, given the large differences in the migration issue that exist between Member States. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6009	There you go, the obvious.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6010	Dear Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues, I asked this question assuming but I didn't know all this information and answers. Why? Because we are all aware that they are growing security risks on many issues, including illegal migrations, and that there is a need for the system and for the people in that system to invest so that they can adequately respond to these challenges, but it is not enough to invest, one system cannot function optimally if there is no trust and support for the citizens and the public in what it does and how it protects the Croatian state and its interests, and that was precisely the purpose of asking my question, I am grateful to the minister at this answer, the response that sends to citizens the message that incidents are incidents, that there are organised criminal groups that threaten the Croatian border, but that the system has detected both such people and those who are on the Croatian side of this project, that it is very effective and I think that this is the basis on which we need to build citizens's trust in institutions and it is a two-sided process which is achieved with this way of work and I think that we need to support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6011	Question number 30, respected colleague Sandra Bencic will refer to Minister of Economy and Sustainable Development Tomislav Coric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6012	... a role in the guessing affair for the investor in the wind power plant Krš Padjene. [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]] The key event that points to the possibility of favouring the investor is your abolition of your predecessor, Minister Dobrović, 2017, which ordered the investor to carry out the main assessment of the acceptability of the modified project for the ecological network. By abolishing this solution, you directly allowed the investor to be free of that obligation and to implement the necessary part of the investment by the end of 2017, thereby retaining the status of the privileged electricity producer, at the tariff of 2013 which is exactly 118 times the tariff which would have been worth abolishing. Since you have actually made it possible for the investor to earn an extra billion and 200 million kuna in the next 14 years, I ask you, have you had a meeting or meetings live, either via telecommunications with investors or investors themselves, which was the content of that communication and whether you were asked directly or indirectly to abolish the solution? I also ask you, did you have any communication with Josip Rimac at the time and with your assistant Validzic and what was the content of that communication? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6013	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6014	Dear MPs Bencic, above all I thank you for your question, so the solution that was made on July 31st 2017 really meant the annulment of Mr Dobrovic's solution issued at the 3rd month of that year. This solution did not allow the investor to retain the status of a privileged producer since this solution did not come about by the investor based on the status that you have received as you yourself said on 30 and 31 December 2013 in fact already had the status of a privileged producer with a contracted price of electricity of 71 lip. The second part of your question was whether or not I had communication with the investor, that we had on several occasions, since the investor was in the ministry on several occasions, and I said that to my lawyers. The exact terms of these meetings are probably known to the ministry services, so we're talking about two terms. At these meetings, the investor introduced us first of all to legal actions that will form the basis of Mr Dobrovic's solution, and these legal actions are also well known because I showed them in some of the public appearances. Namely, on the 27th of April, 29.3. The CEMP submitted a motion to renew the procedure, on 27.4. it submitted a letter to the National Attorney General of the Republic of Croatia, namely we were constantly in communication with the State's Attorney's Office before the adoption of this solution, which is probably the same thing you know, namely, and I informed the Croatian public about it. So, in the context of what you said, there was communication on several occasions with the investor and his lawyers. As regards the third part of your question, therefore, Mr Validzic, the assistant minister as a state official at the time did not participate in the adoption of this solution, given the fact that the issues that were addressed by the amended solution were environmental. And finally I never had a chance to talk to Mrs. Joseph Rimac on this subject. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6015	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6016	Thank you. So, from your answer, unfortunately you did not respond earlier to the press that you did have meetings with the investor prior to making a solution that abolished the solution that requires the obligation to carry out the main assessment. Since the meeting was with lawyers, I assume it is here that you have succumbed to pressure where you are likely to be threatened with investment lawsuits, however, I must point out that your action to abolish such a solution has cost Croatian citizens a billion and 200 million kuna over the next 14 years. I must also point out that regardless of the decisions of the Administrative Court later, because we will pay more electricity, if you do not understand, no, their tariff is different. Furthermore, the Administrative Court, regardless of its decisions confirming the legality of your solution, did not take into account the assessment of the impact of such a solution on the implementation of the Directive on.../incomprehensible/... and for this reason further damage to the Republic of Croatia was caused because this year we received an official notice from the European Commission requesting to conduct an environmental impact study on the wind power plant Krš Falled under threat also to the European Court of Justice. So this is about multiple damage to financial and legal for the Republic of Croatia. I believe it requires the highest degree of responsibility from you as minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6017	Now a respected colleague, Peja Grbin, is asking the president of the Republic of Croatia, Andrej Plenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6018	Thank you, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues, dear Mr. Plenkovic. Unfortunately, everything we can see in the last few months shows that leaving the economic crisis caused by the pandemic of Covid will not be in the form of that letter V, as we hoped, but leaving the economic crisis will be a little longer and harder. It will be harder for the state, it will be harder for the Croatian economy, it will ultimately be harder for Croatian citizens. In the next few weeks, especially when we are making a budget for 2021, we will discuss this and hopefully hear from you what measures the Government of the Republic of Croatia will take to make this exit from the crisis faster and the damage to the state and the economy smaller. However, what cannot wait to discuss the budget which I want to ask you now, and I hope that I will get a clear and concrete answer to that, is the position and help of Croatian citizens. I assume you know that banks have stopped self-initiatively volunteering to offer a moratorium on loans. So I ask you, will the government finally propose a law that will make this moratorium mandatory for banks and will we thus help our citizens who, for example, lose their jobs or lose their expected seasonal employment? But at the same time I'm asking you, given that in exactly one month, the moratorium is running out, will you do something about it? Will you extend the moratorium and what measures will we help the citizens to this expected Don't you think that's what's going on here? [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6019	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6020	Thank you very much, Mr. coat of arms, for your question. As for the economic situation, I think we need to take a realistic look at what is happening in the world, what is happening in Europe, what is happening in Croatia. So we had 31.8. more employees than it was before the COvid-19 epidemic, more, not as normal as it would have been if the tourist season had been another record season because I'm sure it would have been like that if it hadn't been for this global pandemic, but we had more. Thanks to the government's measures and fast measures, I said the other day who gives a quick double, and you know what it means, we gave 6.3 billion kuna, to whom, Croatian workers, employers for workers. We made a decision a few days ago, and I announced it to the government through HZZ and its administrative council that we would continue to measure 4,000 kuna for another 4 months for particularly endangered activities. Why am I saying this? I'm talking because we've been taking the whole of our measures, and now I'm going to be quite precise, out of care for health, means fighting an epidemic of covid-19 that many have tried to question, so it was successful, and it's still successful, making sure that we provide the Croatian health and social system and everyone else with enough protective equipment that was the same topic at the beginning of the epidemic, and we've ensured it, so it's not provided by someone invisible, but by the government and third, we've provided concrete financial economic support to not only those in the state and public services, so all the salaries, all the pensions, everything has come in time and no one has had short receipts, but we've understood the special situation of the private sector and we've provided them with any means of pay, any credit for over this crisis. Why am I saying that? That's what I'm saying because it's facts. And I oppose those who create panic, panic in economic and financial terms, when the government has taken measures in due time to avoid greater job losses and growth in unemployment, this is extremely important. And you're a lawyer, and we've been talking all this time, regardless of how we found a solution to postpone our duties, we've said that the obligations that citizens take, which legal persons take over, must be fulfilled. So there can't be some write-offs in private or committed endlessly, it's just not real. You have to pay the bills, you have to pay the loans. The state can't say everything, there's a huge global crisis, and now no one can pay for anything. We have taken action, there is no Minister Maric here now because we are rotating because of these epidemiological frameworks and according to banks and Minister Malenica is also talking to public notaries to facilitate the situation for all those who are in a more demanding or difficult position than that the circumstances are normal. But once again, we can't, so ultimately it wouldn't be fair to forget the obligations that people take privately, it's not real. In a crisis to give money to pay that, forget all private obligations it's just not real. I don't know how you as a lawyer... By what principle? [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6021	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6022	Dear Mr Plenkovic, when you're doing your work, and you've just done it to Croatian citizens who, for example, lost their jobs or didn't get a seasonal job that they expected because they didn't pay a debt of 500 or 600 kuna, and that's why they're going to be prosecuted, and at the same time you're headed by a government that only owes 8 billion kuna in health and finds a solution for itself that doesn't want to give Croatian citizens then it's hypocritical. I didn't expect such hypocrisy from you, I expected concrete answers from you, I didn't get them. However, if this isn't just a criticism, I'll suggest what we should do. First, in HS, we need to bring the Moratorium Act to pay off loans for a year that won't be charged interest because it's good for the state, it's good for the debtors, and ultimately it's not bad for the banks because otherwise it's gonna happen to us again like 10 years ago that people end up on the road, and banks with a huge real estate fund that they can't cash. That's what you have to do, it's your duty as a government, and I expect you to do it. Second, as far as executive procedures are concerned, it's been five months since the moratorium was introduced, five months. In the day you know when the moratorium stops, in the day. And you haven't done anything in five months but talk to Mr. Malenica about public records. Mr. Plenkovic, delay the moratorium for another 3 months, use the 4 months ahead of us to pass the new Executive Law to enable this debt to be paid off without conducting the executive procedure through a settlement ensure that we do not burden the system and do not make life difficult for Croatians [[Intruder: Thank you.]] To the citizens. [[Intruder: Thank you, colleague Grbin.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6023	We are going to the 32nd question respected colleague Ljubica Lukacic is asking him about the minister of labour, pension system, family and social policy Josip Aladrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6024	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister, at the beginning of the pandemic, I would say, with God's help, especially with one smart, discreet, socially sensitive government of quality measures of the Civil Protection Staff that they respected, and our citizens Croatia is successfully struggling with the crown crisis. In early September of this year, the Prime Minister announced a continuation of measures to help the economy, including measures to preserve jobs. We all already know that measures so far have made it possible to keep jobs, to preserve liquidity, to prevent more significant increases in the number of unemployed, and for all of this, as the prime minister said earlier, a 6.3 billion kuna was set aside. Please say more specifically perhaps a little what the government has done to preserve jobs especially in those activities that are particularly affected by the coronary crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6025	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6026	Dear Mr. President, honourable MPs, respected MPs and MPs, above all, thank you for this question, the Prime Minister answered this question in part in the previous presentation, i.e. two questions before, but I will still repeat everything the government has done to preserve jobs and to protect the labour market. First of all, it is important to note from the political and economic aspect that the measures were very rapid, that they were adequate and that, now we can confirm that, when we see indicators from the labour market, they were effective. The first measures were taken in early March or mid-March practically within 2 weeks of the outbreak of the coronary crisis or the time when we had the first patient in the Republic of Croatia. We went with measures for March, April and May with 3,250 or 4,000 kuna for the remaining 2 months, and that was what at that time lockdown, the moment of economic uncertainty preserved jobs, and later during the months we followed the situation all the time we consulted with our social partners, we also talked with the Croatian Employers' Association, the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and, in fact, always the rule of the month, so once again we can also see analytically quality, constructive and adequate measures. 15 days ago, we adopted measures, i.e. the Administrative Council of the HZZ, and for the rest of the year, and from 1.9 to 31.12.200, which is why we want to enable the expectations of our entrepreneurs, the expectations of our employees and workers to be brought into line with the real situation and to provide them with support in a relatively long time for such a situation. So far, we've invested 6.3 billion kuna, and we're going to invest about 800 million kuna for job conservation measures and measures for micro-entrepreneurs and between 400 and 500 million kuna for short-term measures. It's one truly generous investment, but on the other hand it protects our labour market, which is now that we see the data that today, when we look at them today, we have about 14,000 less unemployed than at the top of this crisis. We have about 11,000 more employees, and.../incomprehensible/... employment gaps and the total number of employees last year at this time and this time is getting smaller. So we need to absorb the labour market at this point in the Republic of Croatia is certain, for this are the most deserved measures of the Government, but also the resilience of our entrepreneurs and all that we have done in the previous period. When you ask the question, or when you ask what we have done for all those groups of societies that are even more exposed at the moment, we have included in our measures integrated workshops and protection workshops, all those who hire and persons with disabilities and indeed these measures have, when we look at concrete and correct indicators, shown that the Croatian Government has been able to deal with this crisis, to know, and this gives us the certainty that we will know it in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6027	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6028	I thank Mr. Minister for such a detailed response and, of course, I can't, and I don't particularly thank you for the extent you've put in place, as you yourself have said to help protect the integrated workshops because at these moments in the Republic I would say the largest number of people with disabilities, you've allowed them to stay on the labour market, which in any case I would say not only useful but also one lifelong professional rehabilitation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6029	Now MP Domagoj Hajdukovic will address the question to Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6030	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr Plenkovic, your past government will remain known in history for the fact that only a few ministers have experienced or survived the entire term. Most of those who have left have gone on suspicion of corruption. Recently, German media wrote about how the European Commission proposed that Member States have access to money from the European Funds in accordance with the respect for the rule of law. The policy you've confirmed to me that you support exactly in this assembly. Corruption is a phenomenon that seriously violates the rule of law. During August, German media reported that this could also apply to Croatia. Namely, Die Welt, and then Deutsche Welle writes that the Czech Republic, Hungary, Romania, Bulgaria, Slovenia and Croatia are problematic by that criterion. As the aforementioned media sources from the European Council for International Relations, I quote, corruption is a major problem and exists at all political levels, end quotes, and say it includes the judiciary. These sentences, of course, are very unsavourable sentences that refer to Croatia. Also, Croatia is in an impressive 63rd place of the corruption perception index. I would like to ask you a comment on these facts, as well as an answer to whether Croatian citizens will be deprived of EU money because of your poor policy.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6031	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6032	Thank you very much, Mr. Hajdukovic. As for your reading of foreign newspapers and comments, it's not the first time now, so it's some established practice, someone's writing something somewhere, one sentence, one half sentence, some unnamed source, and then it causes you such happiness, the satisfaction that it immediately becomes a major topic. To tell you the truth, I don't know, I didn't read that article in Die Welt or know who was talking about it, but what I do know, I know very well that certain procedures are when it comes to the rule of law at EU level. And I know better than you and better than any journalist who might have written an article or some source from some institute. These institutes and people working in them, and even these journalists, did not sit on the EU council. They haven't negotiated for five days, and they haven't, I'm sure, like me, been aware of how we're going to formulate the rule of law mechanism for what, to spend European funds. And I did. And I know what I was saying and what I stood for, and I'm convinced, Mr. Hajdukovic, that you were there, and if you'd heard what I was saying, then you wouldn't be now an agitator and a propagator of an article by an author in some foreign daily newspaper. It takes a little bit more to be the first violin of foreign policy in this round-cut SDP composition on the subject. They knew you had stronger configurations. So that's the first one. As for respecting the rule of law, Croatia, but not by anyone, never in any way, and especially not in the term of office of me as Prime Minister, nor in this one who is behind us or in this one who is coming, will come into some society where you, by your standards, should say that we are in trouble, I guarantee it to you. Unbound by your criticism, it is good for Croatia, good for its international position and good for our influence. And you see, with our principled position on the subject, therefore, our position has been clear all this time, we absolutely respect the principle of the rule of law and the use of European funds, with everyone having to know clearly in advance what this applies to. It's very clear in advance that we know that now. Because there are procedures that concern the Commission's initiatives, concerning the EU's parliament, some countries are passing through, we as the chairman of the Council of Ministers are very high-quality, very detailed, very impartially, very objectively doing both these topics and these topics, therefore, without any arbitration or discount, however, and what is important to us is that in these negotiations, we have ensured, so that these doctors of European themes from the Most say, the potential of 165 to 170 billion euros in the next 4 and 7 years, respectively. Now, that's when you draw a line. It's about engagements, influences, lobbying, understanding, and not even at the very least dealings in some corridors that they're alluding to, some kind of corrupt network they're supposed to say, we're going to give 22.5 billion euros or 164 to 170 billion kuna, and then I guess in return you're going to buy French rafts. That is what we are witnessing in today's Croatian Assembly, so your questions are unfortunately at the level of these international experts on European and global topics.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6033	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6034	Thank you very much. Well, Prime Minister Plenkovic, I am extremely proud to have such a prime minister. Well, no one's equal to you. No scientists, no journalists, no one, so you know more than anyone. And well, I can understand that you're underestimating some media, but Die Welt is just a little bit odd to me that you're underestimating, which is more of your political spectrum, so it tends more conservatively. And it's good when you talk, and I'm glad I heard about you guaranteeing that we won't be cut off by this criterion in any way because we're still going to follow it. And as for me personally, as well as the articles I read, Mr Plenkovic, I am very sorry that you do not read the EU press. I guess I should read some HDZ messengers or something like that to see how wonderful and beautiful you are, and how you know more than any other science and anyone who deals with European politics, who deals with public finances, because here, I don't know, you talk to Charles Michael daily. Well, I don't have to do that in order to know some things, you'll allow it, Mr. Plenkovic. And also, I would use and quote that article again by some irrelevant journalist and ignorant from Deutsche Welle, but.../incomprehensible/... or Die Welta and I would say that he described Croatia and you personally, Mr Plenkovic. He says like this, I quote, popular tourist destinations with Andrej Plenkovic, there is a smart head of government who is well networked in the conservative European populace, but behind that facade there is a dark side, and the dark side, end of the quote, of course, this is my interpretation, the dark side is what we can experience right now because of the 63rd place on Corruption Perceptions Index and other disasters you lead us to, Prime Minister Plenkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6035	The 34th issue, respected representative Andreja Maric, will refer to Health Minister William Beros. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6036	Thank you, Mr. President. Since we were hit by a coronary pandemic due to a lockdown, only emergency patients and COVID patients were taken care of. The doors of the health institution are slowly opened, but health services are not fully provided because, on the one hand, the epidemiological image does not allow this yet, testing is required on COVID before certain tests, hospitalisation, surgery and the like. On the other hand, we have been witnessing for too long in many patients, and delays have been received, and I point out that there are too few preventive checks. There are more and more people who, because of the above situation, add earthquakes, experience stress or mental disorders. Medical professionals, so doctors, nurses, nurses also missed the housekeeper before the pandemic, and because of the above, the situation with regard to staff shortages is even more pronounced, especially in clinics. In fact, the existing staff has been further engaged in the so-called so-called ". isolation and COVID departments, and many were or were in self-insulation. My question is, have you updated the status of all health institutions in relation to the organisation of work and compensation of unexplored searches or reviews, and have you also updated the status regarding the number of staff systematically systematizing jobs in order to make the health system more accessible, i.e. will you allow institutions that inform you that they lack staff and require urgent employment approval, primarily healthcare professionals whether specified or undefined? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6037	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6038	Thank you, Mr. President of HS. Respected and respected SS representatives. I'll tell you that these problems in the functioning of the health system that you have presented, which are related to the global pandemic, are not specific to the Croatian health system alone. They also affected all health systems not in the world, but we tried to adapt. You mentioned well that at the stage of a certain lockdown in the health system there had to be a whole new way of functioning of the same one because of the possibility of entering a virus into a health institution which would have undetectable consequences for both patients and doctors. That is why, from the beginning, even before the threat of an epidemic was declared, and then the 11 March epidemic itself, we sent instructions to health institutions on how to function. They were very clear, detailed, of course, in the best way to cover all possible events, and they were just pointing out that emergency care needs to be provided to patients, patients who are priority patients, who require urgent medical attention, but we also specifically stressed on oncology patients. We also witness in the opening phase that we have gradually opened the health system and in some ways enabled normal functioning, but of course within the frameworks and under the frameworks of the new normal. We also know that the virus is among us and that there is much work to be done to prevent this virus from entering medical institutions, which is why these triages that are needed and which I believe have contributed significantly to the epidemiological situation in health institutions. What I could agree with you that certain national preventive programmes that are of paramount importance and that safeguard the health and lives of Croatian citizens were not implemented during that health lockdown, however in June they gradually began to activate and implement. Of course, we have sent out specific questions about their organisational and personnel problems to all health institutions, and we try to look at this issue and help. As for the lack of number of doctors and nurses, according to EUROSTAT in recent years, the number of doctors, especially residents' specialists, has been growing in the Republic of Croatia, but since the start of my mandate, I say that adequate human resources should be managed and managed. So this week I signed a new five-year training plan that was first adopted and will soon be published in the National Journal. With this new five-year special training plan, we planned to hire 5,092 specialists in the next five years. This is not as was the case so far just a list of wishes of certain county hospitals, health homes, but we tried to reflect the real needs of the Croatian health system. Apart from the doctor as you mentioned, the problem is with sisters, and last week I had a meeting with the Croatian Chamber of Nurses with their union and we discussed the current problem. We have agreed to establish a particular working group that will evaluate this problem because we are witnesses now at this point to produce some personnel that are not needed in the health system, and on the other hand we do not produce those that are needed. Therefore, it is necessary to find an answer to all these challenges in some way, and I believe that this government and my littleness at the head of the health resistor will do so.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6039	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6040	...of course, in preparation for this issue, I didn't say it by heart, but I can easily check the data in different hospitals, so I pointed out no clinics. You can all check the situation, for example, only in my hospital is missing dozens of what the first grade, which is medium nurses, also doctors and maids, according to the systematization of jobs that exist and is not filled. There are interested nurses, but competitions are not being debated, so there is no respect for the systematization of jobs, that is the problem. Of course we all respect the situation and understand that COVID has not only affected Croatia but the whole world, but I say the problem is before COVID itself. I would also point out that as doctors, I care about patients, but also about health and not health care professionals who carry this health system on their backs. I welcome that you have said that here you have started to actually collect data about the situation in certain hospitals and I certainly invite you to continue to do so, to request a detailed analysis and demonstration of the institutions on the number of employees, to respect the mentioned job systematization, whether there have been any irregularities in employment, why in some institutions every few changes in systematization, because you will agree, as Minister of Care and the availability of health care for our fellow citizens, but you also need to be important and health professionals, as they do and how they are satisfied. And, of course, both of which I mentioned, depending on how many people are employed in a particular health institution, it's not the same as clinics or not clinics, what is the number of people who provide health care, how much work is done, how many residents It's gravitating. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6041	Let's go to question no. 35th Honored colleague Katarina Peovic sets it up for Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6042	Prime Minister Plenkovic, I would like to know how you intend to achieve one of the basic tasks of your four-year plan, which is security. You said you wanted to secure safe jobs, secure salaries, safe pensions. But I will remind you that you promised that the workers of the refinery Sisak would not be fired, that the Sisak Refinery will not close, as you know with October 1st, the workers of the refinery, 250 of them are fired. This practically creates the corporate interest of MOL and the refineries in Croatia are being extinguished regardless of what we heard from Minister Coric, who boasts that some restructuring was carried out in 2018, and we know that it is now ensured that oil is being transported to Hungary. 300 Crosco workers have already been fired. Workers, 160 of them Maggle will be fired by going to Meggle, 280 milkmen who will lose their jobs, closing the tobacco factory in Kanfanar, not answering the question of how you're going to solve it, closed the sugar shop in Virovitica, leaving Saipem a large firm from Rijeka, top 200 engineers will be fired, shut down Brodotrogir, and rubbing the hands of one of the wealthy investors Danko Končar who wanted to just open a luxury marina, which will now be made available to him, etc. The pyrotechnicians were on strike here the other day, or warned, and 70 of them got fired, and a hundred more will get fired. It's all going to the top wave. I'm interested in how you intend to ensure job security and pay if in every situation you say it's private companies, that you have no influence and that you can't Help the workers? [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6043	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6044	Thank you very much, Mr. Peovic. As for your questions and a series of these companies and our plan on safe Croatia and a safe job, the safe health of Croatian citizens, a safe pension, so look at the number of speeches for yourself, you may not have been in the assembly when I answered one of the representatives earlier. Once again, I will underline this, the number of insurance companies before the Covid-19 pandemic, so February 2020, the number of insurance companies on August 31st, so after the season which had about 50% of the result compared to last year and was such that we had more insurance now at the end of August than in February. If you need to translate what it means to have a government like ours say that we're going to make moves without precedent, I don't remember any government finding funds out of the budget to pay workers in the private sector in this way, I don't remember it, maybe it was, but I don't remember it. Talk to the workers, talk to the employers, talk to the craftsmen, who would be at the Employment Office very likely, many activities would have stopped if it hadn't been for our measures. These measures cost 6.3 billion kuna. When they add and contribute, it was over nine billion kunas to you. We are not talking about various forms of credit that went through HAMAG-BICRO, which went through HBOR or a series of other measures that were taken to keep jobs, to keep people working, and that those who are private take the air and overcome this crisis. So in this policy, I'll remind you, everyone who works in the state and public service got paid in time and in full, in time and in full, everyone who receives pensions got their pensions. We provided funds to keep the budget on the domestic capital market, so we went to the international capital market and got, thanks to our maintaining investment credit rating and having a reputation for government and country that knows which direction to lead economic and fiscal policy, according to the most favourable conditions. And we still went to arrangements with international financial institutions and funding for this year secured. It has been ensured to this extent that a few days ago we said we have the strength for another 800 million kuna to help those sectors that are particularly vulnerable. You mentioned it, I think, Maggle. As far as I know, there are interested companies who are willing to take over Meggle and keep their jobs in Osijek, formerly Osijek's milkman, and that's also important. As for the other companies you mentioned, we have reached a conclusion on the government regarding all shipyards, and on 3. The May Guarantee has been given, and the Uljanica guarantee has been given to Brodotrogir's competent Ministry of Economy to work on the necessary documents to support the shipbuilding, according to which some of your thesis mentioned here is not correct and as regards INA and Sisak, Minister Coric has spoken several times already. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6045	There you go, the obvious.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6046	I'm very glad that you responded in this way, I listened very well when you mentioned the number of jobs that are supposed to be bigger than COVID, so you're frisking these statistics for some other opportunities, what's quite unquestionable statistics that you can't answer in any way is that we're in a group of countries with the lowest employment in Europe, that we're at the top of a scale of insecure labour contracts, we haven't had 14% of the population moved out because of new experiences, that we have one of the lowest salaries in Europe, and that, in addition, on a scale of material indicators of poverty, we've also found ourselves at the top. I'll just give you a few details you may not know. Almost a million people are at risk of poverty, 53% can't settle unexpected financial expenditure, 7% can't heat, 10% can't afford a meat meal or equivalent, every fourth is blocked, every seventh has moved out. Of course, there is no security for the Kraš worker, for a worker in Meggle, for a shipbuilder in Trogir but there is security for corporate powers, there is security for those who have salaries of more than 30 000 kn who are about to take down income tax for 6% and the one who has 26 000 will get 1,500 kn more, of course there is security for capital because you will get off on capital which is the lowest, among the lowest in Europe, you will still take it off. The 4 stages of the wave of tax reforms took place by Minister Maric, we have no evaluation why we favour large capital, why we are not going after the fact that we are pleasing people who have minimals.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6047	Thank you. Let's go to question number 36, dear colleague Nevenko Barbaric is asking him to the Minister of Foreign and European Affairs Gordan's throat, Radman, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6048	I would like to thank the President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Minister. I appreciate the interest. The purpose of the Republic of Croatia and the entire Croatian people, our survival and survival and survival in BiH, that is the state and the Croatian people, there is our home, our sanctity and our cultural heritage, our honorable history. The condition of staying and survival is equality, is the life of freedom modeled by the democratic world, certainly the quality of living conditions, the optimal development of the economy. We are neither equal nor free in the right sense of that word, we must work on the development of the economy. I am absolutely convinced that we will not, we cannot and must not give up and that without the help of the Government of the Republic of Croatia our goal is too far from saying, unreal. As a representative in the Croatian Parliament, I have an obligation to lobby, advocate, initiate and do everything in greater economic cooperation because it is in the interest of both states, to advocate more significant, more substantial cross-border cooperation and resolving issues and projects of interest for our citizens from both sides of the border, we need help not necessarily financial, power of agriculture, tourism, because these are our economic potentials, our development opportunities, we need to learn about EU funds and experience of the problem of demographicism, we have problems in implementing the Law on the rights of Croatian defenders, we want stronger and stronger cooperation in the fields of culture, sports, especially education. I do not want to say that these issues have not been worked so far, I do not doubt your support for the esteemed Croatian Prime Minister, you are on several occasions during the year among the Croats in BiH, the question is whether we can honor the ministers, expect your colleagues on these topics, their assistants, State secretaries, resolving these issues, this is all in the spirit of the Declaration on the position of the Croatian people in BiH. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6049	Here you go, Minister, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6050	... Ladies and gentlemen. [[Specially enabled.]] In fact, you have already given some of the answers that I agree with, the fact is that Croatia is among the first countries to recognise international and legal subjectivity means integrity, BiH independence and is an active advocate and an honest, European path to BiH. Of course, we will also be very pleased to fight for EU candidate status, but this depends first and foremost on the government, on the Council of Ministers but also on the Presidency which unfortunately does not reflect the right situation when we talk about Croats and BiH, since the presidency member is not legitimate when it comes to representing Croats in the presidency. Therefore, Croatia strongly advocates amendments to the Electoral Law, which will firstly precede the implementation of the so-called The Ljubic case, I think that certain current electoral engineering is revoted means Croatian voices, Croats must feel BiH as their country, which means they must have fundamental rights. Any solutions imposed that threaten both political and legal and economic national, cultural and linguistic identity cannot be acceptable to Croats in BiH. First of all, the unconditional support of Croats is not only from the signing of the Dayton Agreement but also from our constitutional obligation, and we will work hard on it above all, Croatia as a member of the EU, a democratic state that has accepted all European values, the rule of law, human rights is in the interest of having a direct neighbourhood with which it will all be shared together. Croatia will never leave the Croats in BiH and we will use all international forms, forums on which to highlight, advocate, we will talk to all actors of course when it comes to the interest of the Croats in BiH. Here, only you mentioned that the Prime Minister was in Mostar, however, and all the ministers and all the State Secretarys could also say that I was 4-5 times this year, and last year also, tomorrow I am going to Plehan, I just want to tell you that yesterday we are in Split, where the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia hosted the Secretary of State of the Holy chair, Pietra Parolin, who also showed interest, interest but also concern about the situation of general Catholics in BiH, Croats, as well as the Holy chair could help. In BiH you have a lot of bishops, you have an institution, you have a building, but there are gray zones. What do you want with all these institutions if there are no people, if the people leave home? So, we don't want to let this happen, we want to fix this demographic bad picture, and Croatia will actively advocate it. This year we will have the same 25th anniversary of the Dayton Agreement and we will also make our contribution. As the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs, the new regulation envisioned a special establishment unit for BiH. So you can see that we have also shown interest in both politically and legally and economically, and you have seen that we have also helped Croatians in the crown virus in BiH. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6051	Thank you. Dear Representative Barbaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6052	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. We are truly grateful to the esteemed president of the Croatian government and to you ministers for everything you do on the road to a complicated, complex path towards achieving the equality of the Croatian people with the other two peoples in BiH. The right to choose its representatives is a minimum under which we cannot, different freedoms, languages, cultures, freedom of faith, a channel in Croatian, is the same minimum under which we cannot. It's one process that lasts we can't, we won't, and we can't give up on it. The request is also that we work parallelly on stronger economic cooperation, it is of interest to both countries, we need a stronger relationship in the fields of culture and sport, education, EU funds, projects of special cross-border cooperation, we can make a more significant step, all this will contribute to the quality of life of Croats in BiH. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6053	Thank you very much. The 37th question will be asked by respected representative Zlatko Hasanbegovic, Minister of Science and Education Radovan Fuchs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6054	Dear Ministers Fuch, as you know, may not be the assistant of your officer, Mrs Lidija King Algebra, on June 2nd, this year generously accepted the request of our distinguished synergy Miss Dana Budisavljevic, issued written consent for the presentation and interpretation of the film "Dnevnik" Diana Budisavljevic in primary and secondary schools. In historical terms, which is only relevant for the introduction into the teaching of history is produced a mediocre and boring clished and anti-document film panflett which is not contrary to established historical facts, but is especially bizarre and with published manuscript Dijana Obexer Budisavljevic, which has been screen-pastified in a multitude of half-truths, lies and nonsense that could be secluded for hours by historians. Only one example in the film is Zagreb's archbishop Alojzia Stepinac described as a coward and hesitant who washes his hands and is irradiated as quoting the film dialogue by the director of Jasenovo camp, which is the paraphras of the wisdom of Alexander Vulinc about Stepinac as Ustasha Vicar. Minister Fuchs, my question is whether and when will you annul the former assistant's decision, and if you won't answer me what is the interest of the Croatian state in school teaching, the presidential introduction of a cliched anti-documentary film pamphlet whose anti-Croatian promotional potential except.../incomprehensible/... recognized and financially touched and Vucic, Vulin's state film centre for unintelligible Serbian.../incomprehensible/... Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6055	Thank you. I would ask you to wear a mask when you speak. The reply of Honored Minister of Science and Education Radovan Fuchs.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6056	... and curricula or curricula in teaching programs in Croatian schools are the part that prescribes teaching material. [[Specially enabled.]] Nowhere in these curriculas, and mostly now we're talking about what's in history is not prescribed this part of the material that can be used in school classes. Certain authorisations for the use of other materials are equally prescribed so that they can be used if consent is given to them by the Education and Education Agency. In this case, it wasn't like that, and I'll take a look at it anyway and see what happened at the ministry during Assistant Minister Mrs. King. After we look at what it's about and how the procedure has run, the ministry will give its position.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6057	Dear Representative Hasanbegovic, please lift the mask.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6058	So, in this context, I report to you in advance that at the end of October in Belgrade, the announced premiere of the film Daro from Jasenovac, Mrs Obulen, can inform you of what is also the abundance of several millions of euros from the Vucic Film Centre of Serbia's funds, but in the announcements praised in the same Vučić media agitprop RTS Sarapin and Pinks who are looking at, where without moral doubts and shame she performed and represented her film and Miss Dana Budisavljevic. For your information after a decade of unsuccessful tour of various budgetary statements, Vučić's Film Centre of Serbia had mercy on the moaning of the Croatian directorial classic specialized as the elderly know of documentaryly founded film spectacles from the Croatian history of Lordan Zafranović and decided to release the Serbian budget bag for his film "Children from Kozara" thematically and contentally coincided with "Dnevnik Diana Budisavljević" and "The gift from Jasenovac". Ministers Fuchs, if you do not cancel the decision of former assistant King, there is no reason not to include in the school curricula "The gift from Jasenovac" and Zafranović "Children from Kozara" for documentary and historical reasons of course for writing, please answer me in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6059	Thank you very much. I'll ask you, put on a mask and don't touch your face. I've watched you, you've always touched your face, it's the most dangerous thing for you to spread a covid.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6060	I have permanent allergic problems on people and phenomena.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6061	The next question will be asked by respected cultural and media minister Rada Simičevic, the respected Nina Obuljen Koržinek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6062	Dear Vice-President of HS, the Honorable Prime Minister of the Croatian Government, Ministers and Ministers of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, colleagues and fellow MPs, viewers and viewers in front of small screens, I welcome you all. I refer to the question of the Minister of Culture and Media Nina Osten Koržinek. Today when we have on one side cynics and opportunists who deny the pandemic of the coronary virus, and on the other hand, the sick and dying people whose families suffer immensely, we can't say that everything is the same as it was before the coronary pandemic. Nothing is really the same anymore and all the layers of human society are affected that cannot create and create new values and only thanks to the Government of the Republic of Croatia have managed to preserve jobs. Those who suffer are our artists and cultural workers who live off their performances and artistic creation, who cannot place their consummations or their audiences. Your Minister, please tell us what measures have been taken in the crown crisis to encourage and restart cultural life as well as production and distribution and cultural and artistic content? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6063	Dear Minister of Culture and Media Nina Obulen Koržinek.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6064	Thank you, Mr. Representative, for your question. The truth is that all areas of action in society are affected by this root crisis, but culture is certainly one of the areas which, with tourism, transport and other services, are the most affected because the suspension in March of cultural events actually took place in the immediate absence of income for a large part of the artists who act independently, but also for all those who deal with the organisation and production of cultural events. What did we do? I could share it in two groups, one of the measures we took in that emergency closure situation when we ensured the flexible spending of software by the government's decision and funding of the Ministry of Culture and the Culture Nova Foundation and the Croatian Audiovisual Centre. We provided a complimentary fee to the Croatian Employment Service where we provided support to independent artists who are in these statuses, as well as to artists through support from professional associations. We have launched a whole series of measures also for the media from early layoffs of the Pluralism Fund to equally support measures for self-employed journalists. What is important, we began to plan the exit strategy relatively quickly after this immediate crisis, at which all events were suspended both in cooperation with colleagues Beroshe and with the Institute of Public Health and with the Staff, we were one of the first countries to enable cultural events to happen again, especially in summer events and festivals. I think we're the only European country that's been able to make them real. We have instructed all organizers to employ Croatian artists maximum but we have also launched significant support programmes 35 million for online culture, 300 million kuna credits to support entrepreneurs in the cultural and creative industries for which 100% guarantees the state. And also our National Support project for entrepreneurship in cultural and creative industries where we have financed increased production costs under these circumstances. What we are now focused on, and in cooperation with professional associations, is depending on the development of the epidemiological situation, how cultural events can take place in these circumstances, we follow what is happening in other countries. We have secured funds in the Ministry of Culture through the covid fund, and together with the Prime Minister and Finance Minister, we are planning the same thing for next year and we will quickly respond to very targeted measures that will go towards independent artists in a situation where they will not be able to react, implement their programmes, but also to producers and organisers to invest part of the funds under these changed circumstances in order to reduce their production costs and in these circumstances, in these circumstances, the development of cultural events is as sustainable as possible, unfortunately we cannot talk about cost-effectiveness. I also thank you in this place for all the professional associations that are constantly in communication with us and with the headquarters and I hope that in the months ahead we will also ensure that cultural life takes place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6065	Thank you. Dear Representative Šimičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6066	Minister, I'd like to trouble you here, and here's the minister, so without culture, you can't. Can theatre performances be excluded from this gathering or not be treated as pyres and baptisms or prom parties? So people come to the theater with masks, sit in their seats, watch the show and leave the theater. So, the theatre should be allowed at least that sitting on each other, possibly and third seat, but I think that each other can satisfy and that would give extra wings to our artists who created quite those works, and I can't present them to my audience. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6067	The next issue will be the respected representative of Silvan Hrelje, addressed to the Minister of Regional Development and EU funds, Mrs. Natasha Tramišak, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6068	Your Honor, ma'am. Minister, two years ago. HSU took part in an initiative to install elevators into multi-story residential buildings with funding from EU funds. According to estimates, more than 800,000 people over 65 live in the Republic of Croatia, more than 500,000 people with disabilities, and about 700,000 live in residential buildings of which more than 16,000 entrances are not installed. Given the data presented and the possibility that, as part of the operational programme, EU coherence and cohesion, the EU co-financed 85% of its installation costs, it was expected that competent institutions, primarily the Ministry of Regional Development and European Funds, elevator manufacturers and repairers recognise interest and need, and respond in time. We estimate that because of the non-reaction and all of this situation in Croatia 40 to 50,000 people have very limited movement or that they are trapped in their living space. HSU and HT pensioners' Association conducted polls where about 10,000, pardon, 20,000 signatures in questionnaires were sent to former Minister Žalac and asked him to do his job, Minister Pavić did not even answer, but I agree that the new minister was not instructed to tell what the predecessors were doing, but for us these are indicators of the needs of citizens, especially older, sick, but also young people with children. My question is, is there any chance that this project will be implemented in the financial period which is before us as an independent independent project in function [[Intruder: Thank you]] mobility of citizens? [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6069	Minister Tramišak's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6070	Your Honor, Mr. Hrelja, thank you for asking. As you mentioned, the issue of installing elevators in multi-state buildings, but I would also point out here and mention the need to install lifts in all public buildings, should also be seen in the context of accessibility for people with disabilities and for all persons with reduced mobility. As you mentioned, the 2014-20 programming period missed the programming opportunities essentially for such measures and separate activities so that they could be reported as a stand-alone project. What was done by 2020. within the framework of energy efficiency measures both multi-state and public calls made for public buildings, there was a possibility precisely within the framework of EU horizontal policies, and we are primarily talking about policies that are intended, meaning to improve the accessibility of buildings and public and multi-state persons with disabilities, there was the possibility as one of the activities of installing elevators. How much of these opportunities were used depended, of course, on the users themselves and those who proposed the projects. In order to intensify these activities, the project users, future projects, should certainly be worked on by the Ministry of Regional Development. What I can tell you about the new multiannual financial framework, the new perspective, is that at the beginning of the creation of strategic programming documents at national level within working groups and in the context of the inclusion of all measures and priorities in the objectives of the thematic EU, we are also considering these measures. What is important to mention is that we again have the possibility of using in policies and objectives of greener Europe, new calls, new opportunities for energy recovery and public and multi-state buildings. This will certainly be put in place as one of the very important activities, not only as horizontal topics but as the possibility of funding them exactly to encourage them to use this option more. In addition, of course, we will consider in other programmes how we can solve these problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6071	Honorable representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6072	Yes, I agree, Ministers, because the recommendation given to EU members is that pensioners, older people and more difficult mobile persons should stay in their apartments as long as possible while providing adequate informal care, so these are acceptable projects for funding, since they provide practically normal lives for all of these persons, without being placed in, and no pressure on homes. So what I would like to say in conclusion, I feel that we are only at the beginning of this term, I feel in some way, I have a strong impression that in this Government the Ministry of Regional Development has the right person in the right place without the intention of complimenting you, but it seems to me that this could be the third happiness, because we are only looking for, not or/or, not the installation of the elevator only with the restoration of the facades but also on our own, so I think it's clear to all of us what we're looking for. The Croatian party of pensioners will in all available ways assist interested partners, associations and citizens in the need to encourage the competent ministry together to recognise the big problem and accept a very simple solution. The installation of lifts would significantly increase the mobility of citizens, especially older populations and disabled people, who, without lifts due to their age and health conditions, often become prisoners in their four walls, would increase the efficiency of all services, especially those that help older, powerless, disabled people, but would also increase the quality of life of parents with small children who, too, are not easy to climb to the fourth, five floors without lifts. I thank you for your approach and for your response, but for the large number of interested citizens, I would like to ask your written response. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6073	Thank you. The next question will be asked by respected representative Vesna Bedekovic, and will be directed by Minister of Science and Education Radovan Fuchs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6074	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Parliament, my respect for the Prime Minister and all present ministers and ministers, and I give you Minister Fuchs the following question. In fact, it has been ten days since the start of the school year, which in the context of the Covida-19 pandemic is unique and challenging for many reasons, and of course the primary goal was to bring the students back to school and this was done, with the basic priorities being primarily the safety and health of all our students and students. Please inform in this context, therefore, that the current situation in our schools is and what the Ministry of Science and Education is doing in particular to ensure appropriate conditions and certainly adjustments, I would say on a daily basis in the newly created epidemiological conditions that we see change from day to day, and I am also interested in whether you have information about what the practice of other countries is and how other countries adapt to epidemiological conditions, if then I ask you to compare the model that you are currently using and using all together in the Croatian educational system with the models of some other countries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6075	Dear Minister Radovan Fuchs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6076	Thank you for asking the question, distinguished representative Bedekovic. Of course, since the very beginning of the government's mandate, the Ministry has been very intensive in making all documents and preparing for this school year and school year, because school and teaching are not the same, the school is calendar and starts on 01.09., and the teaching starts on 07th, as well as the academic year at universities takes place as much as possible in a way that some of the applicable normal conditions and teaches face-to-face. Of course, while respecting all epidemiological measures and the current situation regarding Covid-19 infection in Croatia, we had to make first instructions in cooperation with the Public Health Office, very detailed on which to organise the stay, movement and teaching in schools, but also on high school institutions, and then further made recommendations with a whole range of different options, so as not to allow school principals and founders who are allowed to give me thanks once again for their excellent work, made it possible to adapt the teaching processes as easy as possible to ensure the maximum safety of children and employees who live in these schools. For now I have to say that the situation, let's say it's relatively good, because at this point of 27000 grade departments in the Republic of Croatia only 10 departments follow the teaching online, which is for now I would dare say a very good result and in relation to a number of countries in the environment, and of a total of 2300 schools. What we are, of course, still doing, is that we provide all possible support and assistance from our call center at the Ministry, but also call centres that are located because of the provision of specific information in individual specialised agencies of the Ministry of Science and Education, but also in CARNET itself, this is done on a daily basis. On a daily basis we also follow the situation in all schools, we are in contact, I personally held meetings with all the directors of all schools in the Republic of Croatia online, as well as with the founders, and we have made an application based on which we can every day have insight into the situation in schools in the Republic of Croatia, how many students we have who are positive, how many there are in self-insulation, equally for teaching and non-teaching staff. Of course we do that in very close cooperation with HZZ and we are in daily contact with them, and moreover, we are consulting on a number of issues. When you asked me about practice in other countries, it is similar and different I would say, of course, that the thing always comes down to it, teaching everyone at school, partly at school and everyone at home, we have applied a rather specific approach and that is a fairly flexible variant where the Government of the Republic of Croatia has approved the use of all three approaches and we are all training on which approach will be applied. at school, dropped to local headquarters level. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] We are most similar to Denmark and now we see that the World Health Department has applied some of our principles.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6077	Thank you very much, esteemed representative Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6078	Thank you very much. Ministers, here you have also mentioned and highlighted the instructions you have issued that have actually chosen a quite flexible approach where the three models A, B and C have been elaborated in detail and I consider it a very good approach because I have really carefully read all the instructions, it is really impossible to prescribe a one-brave model for all schools in Croatia and a uniform model for all our regions precisely because the epidemiological situation and the situation change from day to day, and therefore it is good that, in cooperation with the founders, in cooperation with teachers, teachers, teachers are therefore allowed this flexible approach. I will repeat and emphasise that, of course, first and foremost, the primary priority is the safety and health of students at school, and then there is certainly responsibility on society itself and therefore on all segments, because we can ensure safety and take care of health at school, and we do, and it is certainly necessary to develop those segments of responsibility when our students are located outside the school, especially on high school students. You mentioned the experiences of other countries, I am particularly pleased that we are similar to the Danish model and that this is exactly what is going towards adaptation and flexibility in order to actually include this educational component and students actually taught and developed responsibility for them or to develop a culture of responsible behaviour and adaptation to the new normal conditions of pandemic COVID 19. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6079	Thank you. Lastly, the 41st question will be asked by respected representative Josip Djakic, defence minister to respected Marija Banozic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6080	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. President of the Croatian Government, Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers. My question, as announced, will be addressed to Mr. Defence Minister Mr. Banozic. The OSRH is one of the main pillars in defending our Croatian countries, they contribute to international security and stability, help at given times and civil institutions when needed. Today we see that the global strategic environment is marked by extremely dynamic political, social, economic changes that we must all be prepared and react to. The descent of the Croatian flag in Afghanistan officially marked the completion of the 12th Croatian contingent's participation in the mission of support for peace Resolution Support. When someone analyzes our contribution to the preservation and construction of measures in that war-torn country, then I am convinced that it will be written that the Republic of Croatia and the Croatian Army have made an immeasurable contribution. Croatian soldiers have once again proven to this mission that they are worthy heirs of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War. Given the importance and value of the Croatian Army or Armed Forces, am I interested in the status of drawing up a new long-term plan for the development of the Croatian Army? What are its basics? When will it be made and when can we expect this document here in the Croatian Parliament?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6081	Honorable Defence Minister Mario Banozic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6082	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, Your Honor, MP, I would like to thank you for your interest in the defence portfolio. You mentioned the first multi-purpose combat planes that have been talked about a lot in recent days in the media, in principle this process began much, long before the formation of an inter-resor commission that has put together several requests for initial offers and sent to 7 countries... Hold that planes could be good for the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In particular, it's about new planes coming from America, F-16, new planes coming from Sweden's Grippen, also used planes that are European production... Italy or Rafal France. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And in part three, the F-16 used planes that came from Norway, Greece and Israel. 9.9th Inter-resorship Commission was in line with a set of tenders requested, 4 countries submitted these offers, specifically America and Sweden, i.e. France and Israel, respectively, until Norway could meet the criteria and Italy and Greece could not meet the deadlines set. Thus, an inter-resor commission has entered into one process of validation and evaluation that will take place within 3 months. end the full story of the best and final offer where it would simply try to determine the best price and best conditions under which a government or supplier would be proposed to declare and also, the Government to make a decision under what conditions. We are aware that planes should be here as soon as possible, but this is one process that should benefit all of us for a clearer and more quality adoption... Also, the issue addressed to the military university, a story that was started long ago, which was defined by the National Security Strategy. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Namely, the Military School that is currently in development, which develops personnel in the Croatian Army, celebrates 30 years next year. In these 30 years, various forms have been changing, i.e. trying to monitor what the HV needs in its training and development, but also to monitor what is happening around us in terms of security, in terms of education, officers, officers. The military university is a story, which would follow all the existing positive regulations, the establishment of a university, but also, the specificities of the Ministry of Defence, or all those requirements that this resort requires. It would continue to develop from the Military University, so there would be no new financial procedures in the budget because these funds are thus provided. So it's about one transformation that would keep the existing three directions, military management, military engineering, military shipping. These are 3 directions in which we are developing quality personnel in cooperation with the Zagreb and Split universities, and in this case it was a unique university and these 3 directions that have already been accredited in the existing universities, would now be re-enabled by the accreditation process with the help of their own staff from, who are currently employed in the MORH and the OSRH and the Military University, as well, people who will be activated as external associates. These are just two of the projects that we see that will not be able to end overnight, which will require several years of work and development, looking for various sources of funds, so they will also be defined, in the long-term development plan that should be adopted early next year here through the parliamentary procedure in a way that will monitor 10 years of development, with the difference being relevant to the previous long-term development plan which will clearly contain sources of funding in relation to implementation. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6083	Dear Representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6084	Turn it off. Okay. Okay. Thank you very much. Thank you, Mr. Minister, for your concrete response with a tendency to the important things that will be in the next period. This document will certainly consist of those things that you listed, and will serve to protect the sovereignty of the territorial integrity of the Republic of Croatia, the defence of the Republic of Croatia and the Allies, which includes protection of the airspace of the Republic of Croatia, protection of aquaculture, under the jurisdiction of the Republic of Croatia, intelligence, protocol tasks, support of the host countries by Allied forces, search and rescue, deter the potential aggressor and the defence of the Republic of Croatia, including the call for an article. 5 North Atlantic contract to defend NATO members. I believe you will strongly, as you have indicated so far, lead the Moreh which, as I said, is one of the main pillars of the defence of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6085	Thank you, honourable MPs and MPs. The Honorable Prime Minister, the Honorable Ministers. The current morning is over. Thank you, everyone who participated in the current afternoon, it's over. - Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Forests, first reading, P.Z. Number 8 Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia based on Article 85. Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Agriculture, the Committee on Environment and Nature and the Committee on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yes, the Honorable Minister of Agriculture, Marija Vukkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6087	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, the forest law regulates the way in which forests and forest land are used, managed, managed and available in the Republic of Croatia. Funds for the financing of such sustainable management, management, use, availability of forests and forest land in the Republic of Croatia, among other sources, shall also be provided with compensation for the general services of forests. The compensation for the general services of forests is also a dedicated source of funds used to preserve the ecological, economic and social functions of Croatian forests, to improve them, to preserve them especially where they are the most threatened areas, such as Croatian karsts. Legal and natural persons who are bonds of this fee for the general services of the forest are those whose annual income or receipt is more than 3 million kuna in respect of natural persons. According to the total number of such registered business entities, which include legal and natural persons, which are payment bonds of around 5.5% in Croatia or slightly more than 20,000 compared to 350,000 registered legal and natural persons carrying out economic activity. The fee at which the obligation is determined as a percentage is 0.0265% of the total income or receipt, and the structure by which the purpose structure of this fee is paid is 39% for demining, 20% for fire work, 37% for the management of state forests, 12% for the management of private forests and 1% for scientific research activities. The virus's coronary epidemic was and is a strong blow to the Croatian economy. The government of the Republic of Croatia has, on several occasions, brought different packages of measures aimed at strengthening the resistance of the Croatian economy to these impacts, primarily by safeguarding employment and liquidity, but also by helping other goals in the Croatian economy. Among others, in order to mitigate the consequences of the virus's coronary epidemic, an action plan has been adopted to relieve the economy of non-taxable and para-fiscal duties, and such a plan provides for the amendment of the Forest Law with two measures. One measure relating to the reduction of the rate at which compensation is paid for the general useful functions of the forest and other measures increasing the established limit for the achievement of the annual incomes or receipts for taxpayers of such determined compensation. The first measure refers to a reduction in the rate at which compensation is paid for the general services of forests from 0.0265% to 0.024% and 10% respectively, and according to the total revenue achieved last year, a dedicated revenue from this compensation of 206 million kuna is determined and projected the disbursement of the Croatian economy of 19 million kuna. The second measure envisions an increase in the income limit, i.e. in receipts to determine the taxpayers of this fee from 3 million kuna to 7.5 million kuna, and is projected savings for the Croatian economy of 14 million kuna. In this way, the action plan for the recovery of the economy is implemented, and changes to the laws and forests provide for a total reduction of the burden on the Croatian economy by 33 million kuna. I believe that no one is going to be able to help not only affected sectors, but everyone who is engaged in business activity, and I hope that our representatives will support such changes as will help Croatian entrepreneurs to spread your business over a challenging period of time and contribute to the improvement of all of us through their business activities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6088	Thank you very much. Stay, ma'am. Minister here, we have several replicas, the first respected representative of Zmajic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6089	Dear Vice President HS, dear colleagues and colleagues, dear ministers. These amendments to the Law on Forests and Proposal Measures provide great assistance to the economy, but I am interested in what will provide new financial resources to preserve the common useful functions of the forest because now the fee which is the intended salary of about 5.5% of business entities, and these amendments of the law would pay about 2.7%?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6090	The reply of the Honorable Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6091	Thank you, well-respected MPs, for asking the question. So, as I said, the general useful functions of the forest are those relating to the preservation of the ecological, economic and social immeasurable values of the Croatian forests, which account for almost 45% of Croatian territory. Under the Recovery Fund, the Ministry of Agriculture has reported various programmes and projects relating precisely to meeting the objectives of the Green Plan published by the Commission as communication in November 2019. and which is further discussed between the other and the two strategies, the 'Biodiversity' strategy and the 'From Field to Table' strategy. What we have reported and we think that it is fully in line with the guidelines of the Fund for Use and the Recovery Fund are programmes and projects relating to demining worth 3 billion kuna, programmes relating to state-run management forests worth 362 million kuna, private forest 112 [[Intruder: Thank you]] Green Dalmatia without fire 75. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6092	The next replica of respected representatives of Vesna Vuciilovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6093	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear Minister, my question is on the trail of what my colleague has put in place, and I'm particularly interested in it, so this part that concerns demining because we witnessed last week here and the protest at Mark's pyrotechnics market, you've now answered that you've applied, but when can these funds be expected? So we all know that this process is still going on for a while. This fee, this kind of dynamic payment, is there going to be a disturbance and when can we expect these funds? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6094	Dear Minister Vukkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6095	We do not expect this 33 million kuna savings to disrupt the percentage of demining that is not only financed from the compensation for the general useful functions of the forest but from many other programmes and projects. Among other things, we have the demining of agricultural land from Operation 5.2.1 of the rural development programme. We have not yet applied since, since we are all still at EU level, we have provided a project idea collection and a proposal, but as I said to the Ministry of Agriculture in the context of the proposal's collection, this has given this as this proposal of around 3 billion kuna, to the competent restoring, resolute ministry.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6096	The next line is respected, oh, please, I'm not.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6097	In short, so the Recovery Fund will be used quickly, the expected use time is 3 years, at first 70%, at the last year 30% from reserves.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6098	Thank you very much. The next replica is respected MPs Romana Nikolic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6099	Thank you, Vice President of the Parliament, Your Honor. As a new measure to help the economy resulting from the pandemic of the Coronal Virus, you are proposing a normative regulation of the provisions of the Forest Act in a work relating to compensation for the use of the OkFŠ through two measures, to increase the limit for the determination of payment obligations and to reduce the rate of compensation, however, by which instruments, which, as well as how and when you seek to maintain the functionality of the forest if the rate for the calculation of KEFŠ compensation is reduced, the concrete sustainability of fire and demining activities, since it is necessary from the European Green Trade Plan, to improve the quality and quantity of existing forest surfaces and the need for increased investment in general, which is contrary to what will result from these changes of the laws? I apologize, but this mask is killing me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6100	Dear Minister Vukkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6101	Here, I hope that I understand you well, as I said, the Ministry of Agriculture is planning to use significant funds from the Fund for Recovery precisely for those functions financed from the OkFŠ, but in addition, the Ministry of Agriculture and the Croatian Forests are working on a large-value Croatian Natura Vita project worth 350 million kuna, the Ministry of Agriculture is already programming a natural national strategic plan for the use of future regular funds of multi-annual financial frameworks and plans to spend significantly more resources on operations so far under measures 4 and measures 8 of the rural development programme, which relate to the conversion of degraded forests to improving the conditions for woodworking and improving forest infrastructure. Quite certainly, I am convinced that this redundancy of the economy is much more important to the economy itself than it will do to the damage of the OKFŠ and the applications we have filed are much larger.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6102	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6103	Thank you very much. Any measures that are taken to help our economy, essentially unnecessary fees that we have in this case are being reduced is a burden on the economy, but when we talk about forests, then we have to talk about... A much wider law, on protection and, above all, the economic use of the forest, of course, I said at the beginning, I support a reduction in fees and an increase in the reception of those who will be, means that more businessmen, natural and legal persons will be involved, but when the export of oil is finally stopped very important and these are forests, economic resources, that additional value is created on the domestic market and not that people are moving together with our balvanies to Italy. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'll talk more about it on behalf of the club, but here's what you're doing about starting the domestic woodworking industry.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6104	Thank you. Dear Minister Vukkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6105	Thank you very much, Reverend Bull. In the first six months. In 2020, as we all know, the rate of GDP decline was around 15.1%, but the drop rate related to the activity of agriculture, fisheries and forestry was 2.9%, while agriculture almost fell, fishing grew something, and the biggest consequences in these 2.9% were forestry, but we will all admit, we are pretty well thanks to Croatia's farmers, fishermen and foresters, we are pretty much all well maintained. So, I also want to say that the fall in the wood-processing and furniture industries sector was in the first six months. 15 per cent, however, in the first 5, forgive me, but in the 6th month. the decline was reduced to 10%, with such a reduction causing and being conditioned by growth in furniture production, hence those activities which generate the highest added value... For over 30%. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6106	Thank you very much. That's what we're done with the replicas, my colleague, Bauk, he's raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure, which hurt the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6107	Mr. Vice President, he's hurt. In 293 a Rules of Procedure, because it is stated that on behalf of the club HSLS and Reformers speak Mr. Klasic and Mr. Hrebak and they have the right to one person in the hall. Well, since we can't exchange at the replicas, they can't share in the debate on behalf of the club, so I'd be begging for your correction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6108	I can, you can share time, but you can't be there, you can't be there. Don't worry. You can share the same time in two, so no injured Rules of Procedure. And you made a bit of a mistake in the article, but we're not talking about the little things right now. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Then I'm going to open up a debate with the fact that I just want to say in advance, all the clubs have practically called for a debate and an extremely large number of parliamentary deputies, and I predict that it will last at least eight hours, so you know you're about to schedule your time. So we'll start in a row, the first one will speak on behalf of the Representatives' Club of the Independent Lists Most Honored Representative Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6109	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, a respected minister with her co-worker. In this law, in these amendments to the law, it is essentially proposed that the Law on Forests, the reduction of burdens, the compensation of our entrepreneurs, our economy, and I believe that this is the right way. However, only changes to this as I have said are not enough as far as the management itself is concerned, as far as this proposal is concerned, of course no one will support the Tribal even to reduce the fees and the Tribal would increase these amounts. In my opinion, I would talk about forests as a resource here, but when we talk about this law because here the minister, it was not often a chance for us to see the Minister of Agriculture in the last term, and it was important for the Republic of Croatia, mainly for self-sufficientness, so that when I talked about self-sufficientness and prime minister and predecessors, they gave me all kinds of names and that these were my thrusts, here's the crown crisis that said that we're going to approach this particular issue more seriously now we're talking about this part of the law about, about amendments to the Forests Act, and otherwise about the forest management of one resource along the water of our Adriatic, our country of agriculture have a wealth of sun, we've got all bad wind, terriblely exploiting it, mainly forests, which is why forests. It is not clear to me how sawmills and mini sawmills in Gorski kotar, for example, can anyone explain to me either the minister or someone how they can fail while at the same time we export this balvan of good quality, our tree, the raw material in Italy, we have people, we have tradition and these people go to Italy to do extra value in Italy with our tree, our man goes there with the family and it returns to us as an additional value in the Republic, and the profits only have meaning Italians. So, we're emptying our area and using forest resources is one of the key issues that we need to protect as a national resource, the Tribba Constitution to protect, the Constitution, just like we have drinking water that we're trying to use the Constitution to protect. Likewise, in order to be self-sufficient, we must protect our sustainable, sustainable development, the exclusive economic belt that is the government's respected minister always refuses. To protect us, you mentioned our fisherman, our forester, our farmer, and in fact we didn't protect anything. This change we're talking about, of course everyone will. I wish it was even less of a burden in person, but I can't accept that we mismanage our forests. That our wood growers can't satisfy certain quotas that they have to in the sawmills down from my Dalmatia, from my Sinj, otherwise the largest entrepreneur in the town of Sinj left one drink that employs people, he to reach quotas, i.e.. In order to obtain quotas in order to produce products that are even exportable cannot obtain quotas, then they must fire people, you understand, they have to fire people and the export product is while anyone knows how to export raw materials. our forests, our finished product. I think that you, you have a chance, I will support you the same way I suggested, and now I have referred again to the agricultural land procedure to facilitate the distribution of agricultural land to our peasants. So protect our forests but make it easier for our wood growers to use forests as an additional value where new jobs are created, the survival of people or in Slavonian oak or in the area of Gorski kotar their forest or in my area where I come from. But there's always a lot of pressure on our domestic producers, and that's the key to those unfortunate, and the vermin that are unfortunately in the ministries are import lobbys. Also on our junk, check why, in what way, I have spoken to you in the forest area as I can no longer stick to cattle, what will stick to the valleys in junk than cattle, so people have problems reporting to me with keeping cattle mostly cattle in the karst area by Croatian forests because their Croatian forests as a dams to hold cattle. Of course here is all, since you are the Minister of Agriculture what I said at first on behalf of the club that what goes on in reducing and encouraging, in reducing expenses and sucking out of the pocket of a pair of businessmen and our citizens that of course we will support, but our resources are not used in the Republic of Croatia mainly in our forests. I would ask you a comment, do you think that this national resource in our sawmills and mini saws that could be sustainable, unfortunately, are not sustainable and competitive, while our raw materials go to Italy and third countries where the product is competitive. It's unthinkable for me to have an empty mountain cotter, and a full stop of drinking and driving trucks to Italy, who knows di gone. So, we can't let our national resource that the tribune would be for the survival of the people in the Gorski kotar of rent that the tribal would invest in local self-government of these forests to go all the way to the central cash registers and essentially decentralize the money the way you want it to be. according to some.../incomprehensible... what the Prime Minister said today, we gave to the Dalmatian valleys, in Dalmatia we gave to the Split-Dalmatia County 60 million kunas to the economics. What did you give? So as far as you got out of Dalmatia from tourism.../incomprehensible/... don't give us any more, don't take us, here, we'll decentralize it so it's the easiest. I mean, it's such a shameful statement to Dalmatia, so embarrassing, and towards the Gorski Kotar as well as that the Gori Kotar must have their mayors and captains where the exploitation field of forest goods has to be asked to keep the municipal roads accessible or after snowfall, after trucks destroying their transport infrastructure they have to ask for money, I'm holding and printing, I've been with these people, people have to ask the state to give them money to restore the roads to the truck of satir that exports our boulders from their areas. So it seems to me all unsettled that in the Croatian forests they don't even care how it works. So it should be devoted to these national resources such as forests, I repeat, and we have others, and I expect that during this term MPs and MPs will be much more aware of responsibility than in the past term when only the majority was counted and when the extended arm was the Croatian Parliament of the Croatian Government. We must be aware that the Croatian Parliament has appointed the Croatian Government as well as on the proposal of the Prime Minister and Minister and that we who have an obligation have been an opposition or were in the majority to protect this national resource. I repeat, the Kotar Mountain is empty. For what? Why can't they live off that forest, that raw material they can't live on? Which is why the debris is stopping, i.e. Brake? Incentives are given to cattle only if they have seen cows or not now is another question. Mostly the Minister has fulfilled her obligation to pay off everything. Who's paid? Incentives have never been encouraged again, never been imported again, in very karst areas. So the Minister's area of forest in Croatia must be an area of life, a lot of production, a child's salary in maternity homes, not just motor saws without people. You've almost opened the foreigners to this foreign law without quotas... yet to come drinking to us strangers. We won't even have our own people to drink because cheap labor will do that part of physical work. The resources we have an example in Gorski Kotar must be the resource of the survival of people in the area, not the advantage of the import-export lobby and their profit through some quotas and the opening of companies as domestic because they essentially do not exist, but exports have huge profits. So local self-government can also be helped in this area. They don't have to be dependent on the central state and this resource of the forest because now this amendment to the law is small, but I expect that soon we will have a forest law that will be developed for the survival of our people in these areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6110	Thank you. The next one will speak on behalf of the Homeland Movement, the respected representative Vesna Vucilovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6111	I thank the Honorable Vice President of the Parliament. Dear Ministers, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. Every reduction in tax, non-taxable burden on our citizens and entrepreneurs we all warmly welcome. That's not questionable. Therefore, in my presentation, I will be referring to parafiscal burdens, untaxed fees of which are only one of over 400 parafiscal charges paid by our entrepreneurs and citizens for the use of the common useful functions of the forest. Let me remind you. Many times people ask me what parafiscal abuses are. So these are, the parafiscal impositions, or the non-tax-free giving of different taxes, are not the revenues of the state budget, which is why they are parafiscal. And on behalf of these charges, our citizens and entrepreneurs pay billions every year. According to the available data, nearly 9 billion kuna was paid on the basis of these and such parafiscal charges in 2018. If we look at the financial amounts then infamously 1st and 2nd place bear HRT's fees and fees for renewable energy sources. I have already talked about this fee in this House of Highs about absurd situations and how unnecessary this fee is even from the perspective of investors, so I won't repeat myself. And HRT's fee is essentially one relic of the South-Communist heritage that is paid not because you consume the service i.e. You're watching some of the four programs, but because you own TV. Of course, it should then be used accordingly for certain purposes. But what and how it's funded by the foundation of that HRT fee, I won't waste my words because these 10 minutes are still too little. So the fee for using general forest functions is among the 10 biggest non-taxable fees paid by our entrepreneurs. Once again, the infamous 1st place holds a fee to encourage the production of electricity from renewable energy sources, and billions are being poured into the foundation of exactly that fee. Where and how they end, we will see it after the end of the Krš Fallen affair and potential other affairs related to wind power plants, which are obviously becoming an unsanitary source of media inscriptions due to the premium model and the spilling of money from our citizens and entrepreneurs into private pockets. I'll only give you some of the strangest parafiscal duties. Therefore, the fees for verifying the full documentation in the process of amending the decision on the registration of plant protection products, and then the fees for authorising legal persons to meet the prescribed conditions for the production of general use items. It means any production. And my favorite is one of the most unnecessary in this digital home fee for printouts and mailing. Great. Our entrepreneurs have been pointing to problems that are related to the signs of these parafiscal accusations for years, and they feel that height is definitely inappropriate. They are of the opinion that these amounts do not receive any service, right or right so numerous, that they pay membership fees to the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and have never used any of their services. They also have no impact on the case when there is an increase in parafiscal burdens, and the charges due to HRT are so common that they best talk about how to charge these charges. In addition to the technical examination of the vehicle, we pay compensation for the use of public roads, in each litre of motor fuel we pay again a fee of 80,00 lip for roads, 20,00 lip for highways and 20,00 lip for railways, of course we pay for all of this on the highway through tolls. All in all, no road we're driving is free. In addition, all of us from Slavonia pay for railways in every liter of motor fuel, and we do not have a direct line for Zagreb. Croatian railways directly call the line where you have two precedents and you change several means of transport. According to Slavonia, there are no low - floor trains, and on some of the sections trains drive 60 and even 20 kilometers per hour. About the abandoned condition and the appearance of the Central Railway Station building in Osijek, I'll just say that a stranger who miraculously strays into the train and comes to Osijek, probably thinks he's out of the time machine he threw into some ancient past, not out of the train. The list of pointless imposes is too long and full of absurd situations, so we welcome the reduction of one of the more than 400 imposes on our economy and citizens, and each day they put a noose around their necks through the executive procedures, of course there remains a question that is inevitable, so did we need a coronary virus to reduce parafiscal burdens, so this government was three and a half years old in which macroeconomic opportunities were extremely favourable. Apart from the fact that an action plan has been made, nothing too significant has been done, there is little we have to say, but entrepreneurs and citizens have not felt it too much. The question is constantly raised and why this membership in Croatia is mandatory to the economic chamber, why it is not on a voluntary basis as it is in most countries which we often point out as an example. Also during the debate on the Foreign Law, there was a lot of talk about digital nomads, and then Estonia pointed out as a very good example of a country that handled it in a good way, and I really agree that Estonia is a country that can be a positive example in many segments, so here I am going to point it out. So Estonia has an electronic vote in the elections, and we have the security issue number one, which nobody can solve, and Estonia has implemented systematic digitalisation of public administration, Estonia has the Agency, Enterprise Estonia Development Agency, which is concerned, now watch out, means about export growth, tourism development, country branding and attracting foreign investment. Worthy people, these Estonians, look at how much work you've done in just one agency. In Croatia, it does so on dozens of different institutions from ministries, agencies and associations. And the worst part is they unfortunately do it badly because investors are visiting us at a wide port, and existing, like the Maggle company in Osijek, are closing production plants and continuing production in Kragujevac and Bihac. Most say that exactly the expensive and inefficient state is one of the reasons why they leave. This Enterprise Estonia has an annual budget of €81 million, which is approximately €607 million to you. Just add up the annual budget of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and the Croatian Tourist Board, so you will probably get a number that significantly exceeds the budget and Enterprise Estonia, which is responsible for a whole series of activities. Maybe that's why Croatia is called an earring, and our entrepreneurs are crying for tax discharge and parafiscal charges. Estonia entered the European Union in 2004, and then significantly lags behind the Republic of Croatia in all areas. Today it is the 27th country of competitiveness in the world, and Croatia is looking at the back, not only Estonia but many EU Member States, and also countries that are not members of the European Union. When we talk about digitisation, Croatia has a number of agencies dealing with this, the Central State Office for the Development of Digital Society, sectors in the Chamber, a series of offices by other ministries and so on, all this leads to uncoordinated investment, negative selection of personnel, the engagement of always the same IT companies and a lack of strategy that ultimately leads to devastating results. As long as that is the case, the digitisation of the public administration will be an impossible mission, both for this and for all future governments. Finally, I will point out once again that we hope that this is the beginning of a thorough reform and reduction, as well as the abolition of non-taxation or parafiscal burdens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6112	Thank you. The next is the Club of Representatives is one of the HSLS and Reformers on behalf of whom the respected representative Darko Klasic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6113	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, dear Minister. Here I see that all the previous Clubs of Representatives in Exhibitions agree with the promotion of measures that enable discharge and economy and encourage employment in the Republic of Croatia, and so we will support these measures. By implementing these proposed measures, we expect a positive impact on the business of economic operators and the preservation of activity. Through the implementation of these measures business operators are also expected to be disbursed in the amount of around 19 million kunas as we have heard, and compensation for the general useful function of forests for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs up to 7.5 million kunas of income is lifted, those large ones are reduced moderately. This is a measure that should certainly be praised in encouraging entrepreneurship and economic activity. What this Law should cover and regulate, and it is not, is the distribution of compensation for the general useful function of the forest, as we have heard from the replicas of Mrs. Minister, it has been drawn seriously that, through the addition of the provisions of the law, the funds collected on behalf of the compensation can be used in the event of certain specific circumstances for other over-needed purposes, that is, in this case, the impact of the covid-19 as we have heard on the economic activity in the Republic of Croatia. Refunds for the general useful function of the forest are provided exclusively for the aid and management of forests which are not profitable, e.g. In the coastal... In fact, those roads are being maintained for the approach of fire vehicles and for the cleaning of forests, which is extremely important to us during the Adriatic fire season. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] I fear that this could lead to a reduction in these funds and a lack of maintenance of these routes, which could cause long-term consequences. That's how we actually protect our natural wealth. This distribution is therefore questionable because this way we will not achieve the objective of the existence of compensation for a general, useful function of the forest. A country like us that is said to be under the forest is 49.3% of the land area of the state or 2 million 759 thousand acres of forest where forests themselves with normal management produce 2% of the natural growth of quality wood building i.e. Only with rational management and cutting control can the translated forest generate a 2% annual income. Here I see that a colleague referred to Estonia, we have the same exact opposite, despite the fact that the forests themselves can achieve 2% of natural growth annually and 2% of income, our forestry and wood industry with the support of the state achieves only 1.37% of GDP, while the comparison of Finnish forestry accounts for 4% of the GDP of national incomes, although their timber is significantly less quality, is about Montenegrins and escapes while we are in charge of, with a higher quality oak. We have also witnessed the last years of the great cutting of the forest from like to Slavonia as seen from the annual report of the Croatian forests where the i.e. is increased. The use of wood is in 10 years. It's up almost 50%. Then I won't even mention the problem of concessions that it has, it's questionable how the lords, how many wood constructions are actually cut in relation to the real state and the large Croatian furniture industry has mostly been shut down in the last 2 decades, and the production of furniture today in Croatia has been reduced mainly to crafts or small and medium-sized enterprises. The management of our cut wooden mass was mainly based on the sale, export of basic wood and raw materials such as African countries, which sell their natural resources in invaluableness and imports of finished products. Croatian forests as a public company for forest management and forest land in the Republic of Croatia have been given the trust of all of us citizens to master our natural wealth in the best interests of Croatian citizens, and we need to make it possible for them to be better regulated by law. In any case, this law requires, in due course, a comprehensive revision and a new strategy for the development of forestry and wood industry as a whole. As the amendments to the laws in this proposal have been made exclusively in the direction of redistribution of entrepreneurship, we consider it a positive step in the right direction, but we also propose an urgent revision of the whole law. That's why we're going to support this law, hopefully all these others, but I think this law needs to be seriously worked out if there's a series of things that aren't well regulated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6114	Thank you very much. The next club will be that green-left block on behalf of which will be spoken by respected representative Sandra Bencic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6115	Your Honor, thank you. With this proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Forests, it would say that at a more cosmetic level, part of the natural and legal persons who have so far paid for this parafiscal imposition, compensation for the use of the common useful functions of the forest, as they will, in fact, remain at the level of the entire Croatia, 33 million kuna, we can agree that it is certainly not a sum that will save the economy in the coronary crisis, but we can say that it will probably disburse the economy in one part. However, the promoter himself states that the consequences of the adoption of this regulation will be, among other things, the reduction of activities in those activities that are crucial to us, which are demining activities, fire and forest management activities. Among other things, it is possible to reduce other activities that are very important from the point of view of nature and the environment, which is why the promoter himself states, such as raising new forests, rehabilitating and restoring forests, preserving biodiversity. Otherwise, these are all also our obligations stemming from the European Green Plan. The proposal further states that the funds will be compensated from other sources, indicating the need to make an effort to find these other sources. Today we heard from the minister that these other sources are European funds. However, we have to say here clearly that the European funds whether it is a recovery fund, whether it is a new financial perspective, will not be seen in the most optimistic case before the start of 2022, because we have not yet made a recovery plan. We have to hand over the final plan by 4 months next year, and now in the middle of the 10 months we have to hand over the Draft Vog of that plan. So as long as it is approved, the commission has a few months to approve it and then program how these funds will be spent while the tenders are being held, I'm very optimistic when I say early in 2022. Why am I pointing this out? Because we're asking you to budget for 2021. clearly sees how the budgets will then compensate for the lack of fire and mine action. If we don't make it up to the budget in 2021. We're going to have a catastrophic situation in the demining sector where already last week people protested here in front of the assembly, they don't get paid, they've been cut off, we've had before when their salaries weren't paid in time, we can't afford to have one of those important groups of workers come into crisis and actually lose them. Also, what we also wanted to point out is that we need to transform the way of management and Croatian forests and forest management in general, so we do not generally support such pointical changes of law because we need a complete turn. I specifically mean that many corrupt affairs are bound by Croatian forests, whether they are links for members of the management of the Croatian Forests, that we have applied for excessive cutting, that we have doubts about illegal exports of logs, the theft of wooden buildings reported by citizens, etc. and also the relationship of the Croatian forests to the domestic forestry industry, the wood-processing sector, which tells us overall that there is no good work to be done and that we need to establish a different control over the work of the Croatian forests that will integrate both the civil and professional surveillance component. Also what we wanted to ask about Croatia's forests and forest management, what has been done in particular and what has been done in the Croatian forests according to the officially established lack of wood construction in the state forests of Medvednica where in the past 10 years, there has been a lack of over 300 000 m3 and some value estimated at 100 million kuna? These are data that is kept out in public by the Veteran Association, so the association of the Vidra defenders and their Green Squad. They are also wondering why the illegal actions of the Croatian Forests have not yet been handled by the employees of the Ministry of Agriculture in 2014, and when it was mentioned less than 400 million kuna, with clearly listed branches where these deficits are mentioned. For all of these reasons, we believe that it is necessary for all of us to organise ourselves here as representatives, but also for the Government of the Republic of Croatia to agree, as part of the implementation of the new national development of the strategy as well as the recovery plan, to define a new framework for forest management, to define within it the role of Croatian forests in forest management, but also their role in strengthening the circular economy and the resilience of the domestic wood-processing sector where the issue of redistribution of Croatian forests is particularly important, because Croatia's forests, namely, some 60% of the profits they make at the annual level, are being paid into the state budget. We believe that the purpose of these funds should be predetermined and that they should go ahead with these activities that are actually going to come at risk with this reduction of parafiscal burden. We also think that it is time for the state to actually solve the question of the relationship of the Croatian forests with the wood-processing sector in a way that truly guarantees people the way they will come to wood construction and, in particular, its predictability, how much quantity, in which period. People can't have especially those who have medium and large companies, they can't plan for 3 months, at 6 months. and not for a year, so it takes predictability for them to actually plan their economic activity and to do what we all expect from one side, which is competitive on the international market, they cannot be competitive on the international market if they do not know whether they have access to resources and at what price. On the other hand, I say, we are aware that actually unprocessed wooden citizens are being exported and that we are losing millions of kunas annually. All of this was actually to be resolved through this Law on Forests where we should define these new objectives and also bring it into line with the national development strategy and the recovery plan that you have already announced will be used to finance some of these activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6116	Thank you very much. The next club is the sovereigns' club on behalf of which the respected representative Hrvoje Zekanovic will speak. He's gone, he's losing his right to speak, and the next one will speak on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, the esteemed representative of Martina Grman Kizivat, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6117	I would like to thank the Vice President, Your Honor, the Minister's esteemed Assistant Minister. At the beginning of the year in the previous session of the Parliament, when the Law on Forests was adopted in the debates, we pointed to certain poor provisions of the passed law, and we are pleased that you have seen some things and suggest that the operations of the accounts and charges for the use of the OkFŠ are returned under the auspices of the Ministry of Agriculture because this model of cooperation with the FINA has not been revived, has not been developed or operational and thus saves funds in the state budget and creates a prerequisite for the adoption of a sublegal act based on which the technical normation of compensation or electronic communication with the bonds will be based on administrative redistribution of the economy. You did not accept this just because it was a SDP proposal and you continued a crazy state-leading policy that automatically rejected all SDP proposals by not considering whether the proposals were good or not. In the last debate, we tried to sensitize both the public and parliamentary representatives about the enormous importance of our forests and forest land, hoping that the ruling would point to at least a little common sense and first bring a quality strategy to the development of forestry, hunting and wood industry that would be voted by consensus and then a good law that would help us all implement that strategy. This unfortunately did not happen but continued with this proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Forests pushes pulsism and the benefits will not be. However, the funds collected by the FCSF are strictly dedicated funds from which the forest is financed among other dreams where the forest has never been, the planting of forests after the fire, demining forests, forest protection, fire and so on. Based on a decision by the Ministry of Health to declare an outbreak of COVID 19 caused by SARS COV virus 2, on 11 March 2020 and in order to prevent the impact of COVID 19 disease on the Croatian economy, it was necessary to implement certain measures to minimise the negative impact of that threat on the Croatian economy. In the absence of other solutions, you have reached through additions to the provisions of the Law on Forests for OkFŠ funds by prescribing that these strictly dedicated funds are used for other over-needed purposes, thus allowing these strictly dedicated funds to be spent as anyone wishes according to the established HDZ principle. We also warned about the adoption of the Law on Forests by which all users, other than fire communities, must develop a spending programme for those funds that must be approved. The funds shall be paid only after it has been established that they have been spent in accordance with the programme. Fire Communities do not have to do this thanks to the lobbying of the distinguished Croatian Firearms Community president and then spends as much as anyone wants. That is why we are lagging behind in withdrawing money from the eu funds because for us, transparency is unknown and completely undesirable in our environment. And now we finally come to the peak of populism, the first measure is tied to a reduction in the rate at which the fee in question is calculated in a way that decreases by slightly less than a huge 10%. These huge 10% is 0.0025%, if we convert it into kuna, we come up with data that a business entity with a million kuna income should pay the entire 25 kuna less. With the forest law, you have prescribed that business entities with income below 3 million kuna will not be bonds of payment. Now, with this proposal to amend and supplement the Forest Act, you propose to release all payment bonds that have income less than 7.5 million kuna. With this measure, a business entity with a income of 7.5 million kuna instead of 1.987.50 kuna will pay 1,800 kuna a year, which is 187,50 kuna less. So do you think that 187.50 kuna a year will save someone who has revenue of 7.5 million kuna? The funds collected for the KEFŠ are strictly dedicated funds from which it is financed as I said planting forests where there has never been, planting forests after the fire, demining forests, forest protection, fire and so on. This is a purely populist measure where it's trying to score political points instead of explaining to people what it's all about. For someone who has a million kuna income, it is not difficult to single out 265 kuna a year if he can go on a trip to the forest with his children or grandchildren, the drink is driven from a source that was financed from these funds knowing that thanks to these means there is no peace where they play. Especially at the time of the pandemic when people are invited to stay out in the open as much as possible to spread the virus through the population. We're wondering where you're going to get the difference? We're lucky there weren't any more fires this year, so there's still some resources left, so do we have to spend them and not as transparently as anyone wants? As previously noted, the reduction from these 10% does not apply to business entities up to 7.5 million kuna, refers to banks, which are not ours anyway, thanks to the HDZ is Hungary, for various foreign corporations, teleopers that have huge incomes and extract profits from the country. That 10% might mean something to them. Specify how from the European Green Plan so-called Green Deala is the necessity to improve the quality and quantity of existing forest areas and the need to increase investment in the OkFŠ and to provide adequate incentives or support for forest owners in terms of conservation of biodiversity and sustainable forest management which will compensate for and increase the financing of the OkFŠ. You should've done that already. For business entities of HRK 7,5 million per year, the amount of kuna 1,987,50 is no large amount, and for those with smaller annual incomes is even smaller and we propose to consider, in the spirit of the European Green Plan, that a rate of 0.0265% should be left or even increased, while explaining to citizens why this money is used and the mandatory transparency of the spending of these funds, including fire departments. We're sure that's what would have caused the citizens' approval. And right now, at the time of this pandemic, the moment is for further investment in forests and the environment, and so once again, stop pleasing your policies to banks and large capital. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6118	The next club of MPs is that of HSS and HSU on behalf of whom the respected representative Željko Lenart will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6119	Dear Vice President, dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Today there are amendments to the Law on Forests that are so minimal and minor that perhaps we should not talk about it. But when it's what it is here, at least someone's going to get a little help working, even though this can be classified as small as micro and nano, so I don't know who this is going to help. People who were released up to 3 million kunas to pay this fee when we help some entities, they won't get any help. Those who have had 3 million incomes so far have paid 795 kuna, those who have 7.5 million kuna so far have paid $1.987 kuna, their reduction will be 187 kuna, which is clear to you on the income of 7.5 million kuna of the company's size that these 187 kuna will save no one, nor will it do much to save the company's jobs and business. But when we go further with the bill we come to those with 10 million that will save 250 kuna in this way, so those with 50 million incomes that will save 1,325 kuna, but we also come to those from a billion, a billion kunas of income, I don't know how many companies there are in the Republic of Croatia, we tried to find this data, but unfortunately we couldn't get to it, but let's say we came to the fact that the Zagreb Bank in 2018 had 4.2 billion kuna income, so in this case they will save 100,000 kuna. I have another feeling that those who need the least will get the most, and those who fight for a few jobs in their company will get almost nothing or nothing. But better a law like this than the one before, and that's why the HSS and HSU Club will support him for who he is. But I would refer to one other thing in the Croatian forests, which is that 2 million and 344 thousand cubic metres of hulls were sold at auctions this year. Unfortunately, our defeat result and figure is that all 0.67% of those 2 million and 344 thousand cubic meters of hulls are finalized. So shouldn't the Republic of Croatia invest more significant funds in the development of the finalisation of the wood mass that we sell the Buddha for why in the European market that ends in both sections, burned by some of our neighbouring countries, thereby reducing their CO2 quota instead of doing so. Let us remind ourselves that wood and renewable energy are also the government in its great sensitivity did not remember the Croatian people i.e. those who are most threatened by the heat on wood mass that themselves make wood in the forest that the price of wood in the forest is on the tree, means the tree that needs to be knocked down too large and that it is brought to that level that today is practically cheaper to heat on gas than on wood mass. So I expect here also from the Government of the Republic of Croatia, but also from the Ministry of Agriculture to make another change in which these people will significantly reduce the price of wood. People who work in the woods themselves are the ones who have, say, the least who want to invest their work to get cheaper, to spend the winter, and I think they deserve to be helped in these difficult times when many of them stay out of work, when they have reduced wages due to the pandemic, and when they look at every lip to survive. What is the second disaster in the Croatian forests, which is that it is a public secret that in the Croatian forests leaks everywhere, that if you are a sawmill, and you need more logs to pay for it under the table, that unfortunately the logs are traded in all possible ways, so let's remember the examples this year in Podravina when the wood-cutting truck turned over, and then the wonders from these trailers turned out to be logs. I've known that information for two years now that it's been traded with logs, but unfortunately, you can't prove it and you can't end it. So in addition to these 2 million and 344 thousand cubic meters that have been traded, there are still a number of cubic meters that we've never seen anywhere, and they've spread on black. That is why I think that we are trying in the wrong way to reduce the effects of the pandemic on the economy especially in this wood sector, I think that we should invest in finalisation and thus improve the situation, but also that we must restrict or reduce or in some way even prohibit the export of troops from Croatian forests to other countries that make significant financial profits. I believe that there is enough knowledge in Croatia, enough creativity, enough good designers who can design a quality final product that can then start the growth of Croatia's GDP, and normally open a lot of jobs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6120	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is that of IP, Smart and GLAS on behalf of which the respected representative Dalia Oreskovic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6121	The President-in-Office, fellow MPs and legislators in the proposal's statement that the purpose of the proposed amendments to the Law on Forests is to relieve the economy in order to facilitate the overcoming of the negative consequences caused by the reduction of economic activity due to the occurrence of the coronary pandemic of the virus. The proposed amendments on the one hand reduce the rate at which the compensation for the general forest functions is calculated, and on the other hand, the limit of the total revenue which is the criterion by which it is determined who is obliged to pay this fee at all. The applicant estimates that the impact of the proposed amendments to the laws will reduce the number of economic operators that are obliged to pay compensation for the general services of forests from the existing 20,000 to 10,000 and that the economy will be charged by around 33 million kuna. We welcome the release of economic operators. But we find the proposed proposal insufficient. Instead of the proposed amendments, we call on the Government of the Republic of Croatia as a proposing to take a further step, so that by the second reading, it proposes amendments to the law which will completely abolish this parafiscal imposition. In addition to this proposal from the Party Club with a name and last name, Smart and Voice speaks a whole series of reasons. Some of them are also imposed from the very explanation of the applicant. In this regard, the applicant finds that the current Forest Act stipulates that the payment of the fees transactions is carried out by the financial agency on behalf of the Ministry of Agriculture, so the applicant further points out that the reduction in the number of payment obligations will significantly reduce the scope of the administrative processing and that the model of cooperation with the financial agency has not yet been developed and operational. As regards the reduction in the number of payment obligations, the proposed law states that there is no longer any need for the accounting and fee transactions on behalf of the Ministry of Agriculture to be carried out by the financial agency, but only the ministry can now do so, which will also reflect the savings of funds in the state budget. Well, it's nice to see even on such a small example that the government is considering savings on the expenditure side of the budget, especially when the savings relate to the abolition of the payment of unnecessary administration. But on behalf of the Party Club with a name and a last name, Smart and Glass we propose to the Proposer to introduce a model by which more will be saved by the second reading. We propose that the obligation be completely abolished for any body, including the Ministry of Agriculture, to carry out administrative tasks in order to determine the debtors, for the purpose of calculating and collecting compensation for the general useful functions of the forest as a completely unnecessary parafiscal charge. It is only one in a series of several hundred such obligations that create adverse business conditions for the economy and thus affect society and the well-being of citizens as a whole. In this regard, we point out that our club as well as all three parties that make it valuable to the forest as a public good is of particular importance and interest to the Republic of Croatia and therefore we point out that forests deserve better and better quality care than those implemented under the provisions of the current Forest Act. We will refer in this regard to the information that the Proposer himself stated in the explanation of the proposal for amendments and additions to this law. The proposal states that the total amount of revenue collected on the basis of this parafiscal burden amounts to around 190 million kuna, and this revenue shall finance, among other things, fire work, State forest management, private forest management, scientific research in forestry. In the light of the importance of these activities, the amount of the compensation collected is not enough anyway to be carried out in an appropriate and satisfactory manner. As a result of climate change every year, there is a growing risk of new fires, and due to poor institutional surveillance and corrupt patterns of behaviour in the country and society in general, and so in the administrations of the Croatian forests there are more and more obvious devastations of forest goods. Because of both these factors, the ecological role of the forest is seriously compromised. Regardless of the commitments arising from the European Green Plan, which relate to improving the quality and quantity of existing forest surfaces and increasing total investment in the generally beneficial forest functions, we call on the applicant to come up with a completely different proposal for amendments to the Forest Act until the second reading. The threat of forests and forest goods that are growing more and more every day does not result from a reduction in revenue collected with unnecessary parafiscal burden, but from poor and corrupt management that is more devastating in our case even from climate change. Croatian forests are a state-run company with a large number of employees. Experience shows that party personnel are often placed in the management post after the end of the term of office at another public office, those who are not on the radar and are not subject to rules on the prevention of conflicts of interest. The scales of political influence on the establishment of a working relationship on lower branches can only be guessed. Until the second reading of the Forests Act from the Resord Ministry of Agriculture, we expect it to carry out a detailed analysis of the state of forest goods in the Republic of Croatia and to design and propose a plan as well as accompanying programmes to withdraw incentives or support from European funds that would provide all the necessary resources to carry out those tasks that have been financed so far from the compensation for the general services of forests. We repeat, it is an unnecessary parafiscal charge and we advocate its abolition completely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6122	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is the HDZ on behalf of which a respected representative, Darko Saturday, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6123	... ministers, dear colleagues and fellow parliamentary representatives. In its very address to all of us here today on this Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Forests of Mrs. Ministers has actually given me the condemnation to say the full reasons for the need of this Amendment Act because, as a new measure to help the economy resulting from an epidemic of the Coronal Virus, it is proposed that the normative regulation of the provisions of the Forests Act be made again in the section relating to the compensation for the use of generalised functions of the forest and, through two measures, directly focused on this non-taxed giving. It was said on several occasions as the first measure is linked to a reduction in the rate at which the fee in question is calculated in such a way as to reduce the same by slightly less than 10% and from the current 0.0265 of this proposed calculation rate of 0.024 of total income or total receipts. We've heard various actually comments, but we all agree that this 10% rate is also very important when we talk about one solution and it's not little, it's ultimately 19 million kuna. The second measure relates to the exemption of compensation for legal and natural persons who are taxpayers of income tax and natural persons, taxpayers of income tax, who have income of less than 7.5 million kuna, by increasing the total annual income limit and receipts from the current 3 million kuna to the newly proposed 7.5 million kuna, would reduce the number of taxpayers of payment fees by about 50% compared to their current number. So, from today’s slightly more than 20,000 taxpayers to about 10,500. By way of derogation from paragraph 1, the amount of the aid granted to the State under Article 107(3)(c) of the Treaty shall be as follows: The proposed measures are expected to have a positive impact on the business of economic operators and their implementation contributes to the conservation of economic activity and liquidity, and ultimately to the preservation of jobs where entrepreneurship will actually be further charged in grants of around €33 million. There was a lot of speech actually and I dare say, about certain "negative" effects especially on those items that are covered by this fee, we are all sensitive when we talk about demining, when we talk about fire, and certainly we who live in those areas where there are forests, to the management of state forests, and also to the management of private forests. I am sure that the government and, in particular, the resolution ministry headed by the minister will find adequate solutions precisely with EU accession funds, which has been many times here today behind the speaker on this draft law amending the law and said. Of course, I will also point out a positive situation in fact just before, and this is the current Law on Forests also stipulates that the accounting and fees transactions carried out by FINA on behalf of the Ministry of Agriculture, that the reduction of the number of payment obligations will significantly reduce the scope of administrative processing and that the model of cooperation with FINA is not yet developed and operational, there is no longer a need for the calculation and payment of compensation on behalf of the Ministry of Agriculture to be carried out by FINA for welcoming it on behalf of the club and that solution that the ministry is actually doing this job itself. In fact, we welcome this proposal to amend the Law on Forests, and I believe that it will actually encounter a huge response or a great deal of approval in general in the Croatian public, especially when we speak in the segment of the economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6124	Thank you very much, we are moving on to an individual debate and will be the first to speak to the respected representative Katarina Peović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6125	Good afternoon, everyone. Here is the debate on the law, on the amendment of the Law on Forests, and what we have tried to stress on the current clock and what we have tried to do on the current Green-left bloc club clock, and to make it clear that every tax reform that has been brought into this country in 4 waves is now going on a fifth wave of tax reform including this law that follows that logic, passed without any assessment of the effects of tax cuts and parafiscal burdens on our economy, without any serious analysis, means current tax discharges, but also an analysis of the redundancies that are re-admissioned, all have a similar logic, and that is the logic that, along with the floscules that spread in public space about creating a positive climate of entrepreneurs, can be done by colleagues and colleagues, absolutely everything, right. This will not be the most dramatic example of reducing the parafiscal burden, there will be only 33 million kunas in the Treasury, but it is really paradigmal and it is really an example of how tax reforms are done, how they work, how they work, how they are brought in and how empty, pointless and without any positive effects on the economy themselves. We didn't get to these negative results that we have, which is that we're on the poverty chart in the highest place just like that. We came up with policies that grab hold of these floscules in the media, in public space about so-called. the need to dissipate entrepreneurs and create them with a wonderful climate in which this particularly protected species will function much better. So here colleagues and colleagues are proposed as we have heard, a reduction in the rate at which the compensation is charged for the BOX by 10% and the exemption from payment of fees for legal and natural persons who are bonds of payment of the BOX and whose income is less than 7.5 million kunas of incomes or receipts. This means that the number of economic operators covered by this fee that were covered by the revenue of more than 3 million kuna, the model that is active in all of these tax reforms so far, is precisely that the number of taxpayers entering the definition of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs is being relieved, without saying, of any projections. The total expected deficit is therefore only 33 million kuna. There are no projections of how this minimum discharge is going to be, we have heard about what the figures of several hundred kunas are about to help entrepreneurs and there are no projections of the consequences and that is what is more dramatic about activities such as demining, fire and other common forest functions. I will remind you that the description of this law already states that there will be a reduction in demining due to this measure, and last week we had a protest of pyrotechnicians who due to very illogical demining plans come into the situation that they were decimated. So 70 pyrotechnics, they have 500ths, so the rate has already been fired, and a hundred is already on the list to get fired. So at a point where we haven't demined the whole country and in truth there's money to demining but they're very badly distributed, we're going to be brought into a situation where the pyrotechnics warned us last week that they would first cancel their work contracts that they would get fired, and that they'd be looking again for pyrotechnicians because the country wasn't demining and they'd really need to be demined. But there's no need for demining at this point. This measure will directly affect the even worse status of pyrotechnicians in Croatia. By law, we do not have any assessment of the effects of this regulation on these activities. It decreases only to appear that even entrepreneurs would go into hand and it is rhetorical because it is clear that such modest means will not help anyone, and at the same time it means some quite concrete measures that would help the wood industry have not been adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6126	Thank you very much. We have one replica. You can stay here. Dear representative Vucimilovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6127	Dear Representative Peovic, I must complete you. So the parafiscal burdens are paid both by entrepreneurs and citizens. It's not an imposition paid only by entrepreneurs. This is just one of 400 different parafiscal duties, over 400. And if in 2018 nearly nine billion kunas were collected on the basis of parafiscal burdens there were about 5 billion entrepreneurs, about 4 billion citizens. So you have in the paper today an example of a grandmother who has a pension less than a thousand kunas and pays HRT a fee of 80 kuna a month. She asked to be reduced. HRT wouldn't let her pay a reduced fee of 50 kuna. So I'm going to repeat again, this is one of over 400 charges, and any reduction in parafiscal burdens in this country should be warmly welcomed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6128	Dear representative Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6129	It's quite clear that we can't put pensioners and entrepreneurs in the same category, and I didn't mention entrepreneurs for no reason. In the light of the introduction of this amendment, the proposal for a law amending the Law on Forests states that this measure is taken to reduce the impact of COVID-19 on the Croatian economy and is proposed to reduce the rate because of the popular way to allow entrepreneurs to breathe. We like to use that expression, so here we can use it again. So, of course, no one's talking about getting retired so that it wouldn't be good for the pensioners to retire and cut taxes on the poor. But this isn't the case. At the same time, we do not reduce VAT which is a regressive tax, which equally affects all or more poor people. That would be a real measure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6130	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Mira Bulja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6131	Thank you very much. Minister, I said on behalf of the club a position on this small amendment to the law. But here's one of the loads is shrinking. However, the fact is that when we talk about strategic resources, they are certainly forests. We must from the woods mean we have before all demographic survival in those areas where we have forests. We've had human potential so far. I'll always mention Gori Kotar where we have sawmills that are empty, we have human potential, we have forests. Which is why and how we have people at this point. our raw materials, logs, logs that are exported to Italy for example are leaving our people, creating additional value in Italy, and remains empty Gorski Kotar and Croatia? What's the logic here? What's the logic here? This national resource, like drinking water, is the same as energy potential, the sun, the wind must serve to remain people in these areas, not for example. when we have wind power plants that are good, but they should serve to have renewable sources, to have better life opportunities mainly in undeveloped areas, not to rob us through renewable sources, through measures to rob these people, to pay us five times the price of electricity. Who? Why? Why Fallen? Why the division of agricultural land, and even forest land to cattlemen get the support of people who are literally, Minister I once said don't know how many cows... how many cows have tits. [[You don't understand.]] They don't know, and that's why we have to use our national resource as an example in Gorski Kotar. Slavonic oak is irrelevant, and we have the potential for people to stay in the area. My predecessor mentioned here a demining centre, last year, last year, I convinced your Government of the Minister, the Minister of Home Affairs, not to shut down the Croatian Mine Action Centre, that it would lead to this situation that was brought about, or write projects, or make funds from European funds, and people who would have to mine, 3 million of us seem to be square meters of our surfaces, mostly forests, forests, our resources, that's not made, and what do we have now? We have a problem that our strategic resource serves only imported export lobbys. Nothing else, import lobby. And I expect since the dream at the Most Club and in the last term was that we would finally protect our national resources, you're the Minister of Agriculture and Forestry, that we would protect our and our foresters, the people who deal with the wood processing industry, that we would protect our fisherman that we would declare the IGP. In the past term, last term, we have twice voted, neither HDZ nor the SDP have accepted the IGP's declaration. It's our right. Our fisherman's right to fish, not vice versa, that our fisherman has no right to fish, and Italian can do what he wants. And, of course, our people will go to Ireland to catch fish or our man in Ireland will plant potatoes from Slavonia, only as weak as he can, and you can see that Ireland is more successful there. How? In us in Slavonia when you throw out the potato he's giving birth. As it is possible never again to encourage, as it is possible for the Ministers of Agriculture, and never more imports, 3 billion kunas to import, and from the forests, our forests, along with this minor law that we now mention, a minor one that needs to be accepted, but a minor one, we absolutely have none of that. How? It's incomprehensible to me. So that we can't together co-workers and fellow Parliamentarians instead listen to those listeners we appointed to the government that we can't together protect our waters, our forests, our seas. It's our right. Our agricultural land, 800,000 hectares of unprocessed agricultural land, 800,000 hectares. The mayor writes this, he writes this, he keeps everyone in, I won't say what they're dancing for. Local self-government, mayor and power and the worst turns out to be a peasant, all in the interest of their private pocket. The national resource is our responsibility here in the assembly not on them. They don't care. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6132	We have, remain colleague Bulj here, in the heat of the debate, this one we still have a replica of the respected MP Miletic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6133	Comrade Bulj, you have discussed the need to protect the citizens, the people of Gorski Kotar. I was the other day, so all afternoon with the people in the Presid in Chabra, we'll soon have no one to protect because there won't be any people in the Gorski Kotar. I wrote that Slovenia feeds us children, so some of them may not have figured it out, Slovenia offers children who live in Presid and scholarships, buses, 5 lines a day, an annual map of 900 kuna, which then children can go to, to the Ljubljana High School for study, and we simply forgot about the people of Gorski Kotar, the people of Presid, the people who expect our help there, so here we hope that the Minister hears this too and that we will do everything we can to get the industry back to Gorski Kotar, in particular we are talking about the tree of the future that it was all destroyed. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6134	Thank you. Dear Representative Bulj, it's not really about the subject, but here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6135	Thank you very much. I was in Gorski Kotar 2 years ago, I had a press conference with the mayors from that area. People, it's such a centralised state that those of these resources that have absolutely nothing, have nothing to do with it, are poor municipalities, cities, local self-government, that they simply cannot restore the infrastructure of traffic, asphalt, those holes patched up that these trucks di-exported to the balvanies are working to beg from the government, begging. So, of all these forests, there would have to be enough money for both education and doctors and health care and yes, and to have free transportation students and all that is needed. And this is not how the government wants it, she doesn't want that money to stay from that forest resource of Gorski kotar to stay in the Gorski kotar, because they want the dependent mayors and the mayors to kneel before them, and then I had a press release with those people and somehow we fought it, so they got these cities at 10 million kuna to rebuild the infrastructure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6136	The next individual debate will be respected representatives of Mariana Petir, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6137	... Minister. [[Speaker not enabled]] Forests and forest land are of good interest to the Republic of Croatia, it is defined by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and the Law on Forests. The need for forest protection has long been recognized by our foresters, with a history of 255 years. The necessary management of forests in Croatia can be commended not only at national level but at both European and global level. On the other hand, the consequences caused by the Covid-19 pandemic and the impact on the overall economy and the economy in our country, but also in global proportions each day, cause additional consequences and demands and economics should, of course, be helped quickly, reduce the duties they have in order to facilitate their business. To this end, this reduction in the rate for the calculation of the compensation for the general useful functions of the forest is also proposed for slightly less than 10% and the exemption from the payment of compensation for legal and natural persons with income of less than 7.5 million kuna. This will result in the disbursement of shareholders, as well as the reduction of the total amount of compensation collected for the generally beneficial forest functions of €33 million. These funds must certainly be compensated from other sources, because it is actually called compensation for generally useful forest functions to finance the management of protected forests and forest land, the production and approval of forest-economic plans of public forest owners, the cost of managing the economic forests of public and small forest owners, demining forests and forest land, fire and scientific and professional works in the field of forestry. By the time the woods are all right, until we get ice-breaking, deforestation, forest fires, floods, or there's no need for demining forest surfaces, I think we're taking the forest for granted. When problems arise that directly or indirectly affect the economy, collapse of wood mass or extinction of forest species or affect us personally such as air pollution, quality of drinking water, UV radiation then we start to think about the role and importance of the forest. All of this is also related to the multifunctional role of the forest that has a direct impact on the retention of the population in rural areas and the creation of jobs in forest-based industries. We have underestimated this role of the forest, unfortunately. In a simple dictionary, the woods will give us back as much as we invest in them and as much as we care about them. In the introductory part of this legislative proposal, the legislator himself warned that the reduction of the resources that will follow the law would require additional efforts and the provision of funds to maintain the existing level of conservation of generalised forest functions by announcing the programming of forest owners measures in terms of the conservation of biodiversity and sustainable forest management through a national and strategic plan for agriculture under the common agricultural policy. As we prepare for programming a new programming period, it would be good to analyse the effectiveness of the measures implemented and, in line with the observed shortcomings of current programming at the expert level at a broader discussion, to consider the priorities and activities planned for the new programming period. Let us consider where programming can be improved in the future, what new measures or operations we can introduce to improve the protection and conservation of Croatian forests and as a Member State manage to respond to the challenges that await us regarding the European Green Plan. I would particularly like to stress that it is important to promote the demand for wood produced in a sustainable way, which is in line with the green public procurement supported by the European Union. The wood must become an important segment of rural development in Croatia, and this is the fact that the wood processing sector has been an important industrial component with exports of about 1.2 billion euros and has employed over 50,000 workers with forestry mainly in rural areas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6138	Thank you. We have one replica, a respected representative of Saric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6139	Dear Vice President, distinguished colleague Marijana Petir, you said in your presentation the importance and role of the wooden industry in Croatia, so let me say that as a man living in Vukovar-Srijem County, which covers the largest part of this spa pool that we in Croatia very often like to raise to say just a few words in this time as far as I have about it. The Croatian state, or Croatian forests, have increased the forest contribution from 3.5% to 10% belonging to the local self-government unit, which is one significant shift. But the fact that much greater shifts can be made in the wood industry, I believe it will also be on the trail of politics that is being led today in the Croatian government. We have some fine examples in the City of Otok we have an excellent investor Mr. Darko Pervan company Bjelin who employs 180 people with the lowest salary of 5,500 kuna. So we have excellent examples of good wood industry in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6140	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6141	Thank you, Mr. Agent Saric, for this intervention. In any case, I agree with you that it is necessary to support the wood processing sector more strongly because it is indeed export-oriented and this crisis has also left its consequences, so it is important that through the measures that we are going to take and program for European funds it is also stronger to support this sector because it is a sector that is employed in rural areas. If we want to fight bad demographic trends, then we must ensure employability for the rural population. It's not necessarily just agriculture. It can be other activities. And as I said, about 50,000 people are employed in forestry, which is a significant number, and it shouldn't be underestimated. Also, what I think is important is to encourage greater use of wood in all sectors because it has proved that wood as natural material is really suitable and is good for health and environment if it is being built in, and it is also important for employability.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6142	Thank you. The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Tomislav Tomasevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6143	I appreciate the words. I think this law is like this one cosmetic law of alleged discharge from parafiscal charges that everyone has mentioned so far has recently been bananad almost in view of these savings that are now of several kunas for business entities. So it's not all about how much revenue is actually going to be reduced in the budget of more than 30 million kuna, but for these entities it's banal, so it's already said that for those business entities that have revenues of 7 and a half million kuna they'll pay less by this 187 kuna if they're released to this second degree or they'll pay 25 kuna less if they're due to this company that has a million kuna revenue at this reduced rate they'll pay 25 kuna less. So I think we should even talk about this right now, and I think it would be banal. However, what I would like to talk about is the forest sector in general, in which we manage our natural resources, and then, in particular, I would like to look back at what some colleagues have so far been more focused on in the debate, which is Croatian forests as a state-owned enterprise which is actually an alpha and omega in the management of forest resources in Croatia, which I think is actually not doing a good job. And from that perspective, I would like to change this law from a perspective on how to manage Croatian forests in terms of not companies but forest resources as a renewable natural resource in the long term and from the perspective of the ecological, economic and social components. I will say that the vision of the Croatian forests is to ensure sustainable integrated management of state forests throughout the area in an environmentally sensitive, economically efficient and socially responsible manner. I think that neither, nor the other, nor the third of this vision of the Croatian forest are currently fulfilling, how much is the responsibility of the resolution ministry appointed there by the administration, the resolution ministers, because we know how it is managed in Croatian public enterprises that are, in fact, mostly party personnel, so the presidents of the administration are also appointed, the supervisory boards are also almost entirely party-set and then public companies are often ATMs for the ruling party that it is. And in particular, if we talk about Croatian forests there we have 90% of total income, and this is again related to the general useful functions of the forest and what goes directly through parafiscal burdens in the budget, and how much of it does Croatian forests actually make through commercial revenues, and how much of it gets from these revenues at the end of the budget payment. So currently 90% of the total income of Croatian forests is from the sale of wood. And here we can also talk about what is the role of the Croatian Forests for the Development of the Economy, primarily the wood industry, which is the role of Croatian forests in this social component from the perspective of selling wood for heating, and I will remind you of how many times the price of wood for heating has increased, which means for our citizens. On the other hand, we can also talk about the ecological function of the Croatian forests from the perspective of insufficient growth, from the perspective of devastation, from the perspective of the diseases that we have had and some natural disasters which unfortunately will only increase in the future how climate change will go. I will also remind you of this same foreign corruption since we know that the President of the Board of the Croatian Forests was arrested only a few months ago on suspicion, we will see what will be further shown in the investigation of the forest land settlement, related to wind power projects, but in any case what we need to ask ourselves is the role of public enterprises such as the Croatian forests because it, their role is not for me to make a profit, even if that profit ended in the budget, their role is to achieve some public interest. Now, which is a public interest behind this social, environmental and economic component, I would like to discuss this and, in this public interest, to evaluate public companies' administrations such as the Croatian Forests and also to extend and change the control of the management of public enterprises such as the Croatian Forests in a way that they are not only party personneled people, but also to be representatives of users, physical users, but also representatives of industry or business users, representatives of workers, representatives of independent professions and then to start not only to make such cosmetic changes to the laws, but to be the whole reform and Croatian forests as businesses and the whole of this sector. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6144	Thank you. You can stay a colleague of Tomaševic, we have two replicas, the first respected representative of Saric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6145	Your Honor, Vice President. Dear counterpart Tomašević, I think that Croatian forests, I am not a forester, but foresters who listen or people from the profession will not agree with me in this sense that we do not manage Croatian forests well. In this economic sense, it may be better and I will agree, and as a man living in that area, he would be happier and happier if we had more benefit than that, but it is not certain that this fact that you said was well economically not mastering. At least I have to agree with you that there were examples when Croatian forests were run by those who were not foresters and that was at the time of the SDP when the president of the Croatian Forests Administration was an informer, Mr Pavelic, I agree. At the time of the HDZ, even the current administration, I know, and I know these people, they're all forest engineers, so people from the profession. And there's one more thing I have to deny you, the forests are very well managed in terms of ecology. The entire Spačvanski pool, 42,000 hectares are in Natura 2000 Here, so much... [[Intruder: Thank you]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6146	Dear Representative Tomašević.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6147	So I can confirm, as you said, that the president of the board is Krunoslav Jakupčić dip. ing. The forestry industry and it has been president of the administration since 20 November 2017, HDZ's staff, I can confirm it, and I also think it stands what I said, that he was arrested on suspicion that he had been eligible for forest land for one wind power plant project, we will see what the investigation will show, but it is neither the first nor the last I know the arrested member of the management of the Croatian Forests in the last 15 years. And what I think is standing, and that's what I've been doing, how public companies operate, I don't think it's disputed that the representative in the assembly is a representative of the Resort Ministry, and I think the administration should be elected in a public competition, that it should not be party personnel, and it's almost as a rule. But what I certainly think would contribute to better supervision of whether public enterprises are achieving public interest, even in this economic sense both ecological and social when we talk about Croatian forests That would be if on the Supervisory Board we didn't just have party-set people... [[Intruder: Thank you]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6148	The next replica is Honorable counsel Petyr, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6149	Dear counterpart Tomasevic, as you know the EU through its programmes it brings, which are facing climate change mitigation, greater use of renewable energy sources, has also given a signal in some way that it is very important to respect and respect the aspects of green public procurement, in this sense it would be desirable in fact to use wood as a resource in a smarter and better way through public procurement, so if I may say so, perhaps even favour it because Croatia really has something to praise when we talk about forest resources and when we talk about raw materials. Over 45% of Croatia's forest-covered area, of which 95% of natural forests, I don't think there really is anyone in Europe, so I'm interested in your attitude around that segment when we talk about green public procurement as well as better wood to place and perhaps create additional jobs.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6150	Dear Representative Tomašević.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6151	So I can agree, I think that green public procurement as an instrument Croatia needs in all segments and so should the forest sector if you want me to express myself to the economic and even to some extent protectionism. It's ecological protectionism, but it's also economic. As we have in agriculture, I can see the reasons why we shouldn't have it in forestry. So I think we should use the green public procurement instruments to favour what you said to the domestic wood industry, not that our woodwork goes to Italy for furniture which, then, means we sell cheap resources, and then we import a expensive complex product. And when we talk about new energy sources here, I also think that Croatian forests have not done their job because a bunch of slices would then end up in some other countries, used there as a renewable energy source, and then it would be shown as reducing the climate emissions of those countries. So here I think that we have not done our job well in different governments and that Croatian forests can and must do better.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6152	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be respected representatives of Rada Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6153	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, the Law on Forests in recent years has been a kind of recordr in the number of changes, additions and additions, i.e. Whenever there is an opportunity to install into it a detail that may contribute to easier and faster and devastation and deforestation of our forests and then subsequently, and here we have heard here and illegal action, or here at least now are open procedures, and there have been before or even concealing the reuse of strictly intended funds. The forest law was amended in 2017, 2018, 2019, in this year, this is the second change, the truth everyone here has said this is a small micro change, cosmetic change, I would say this is a small HDZ PR, because during the pandemic, this has helped everyone, there could be something to help individuals, so there are some criteria, some limitations, but what many have noticed is what will happen to this 33 million deficit that we will not have in our budget, in fact, where it will be redeployed and what will happen to it because the text of the proposal states that these proposed measures are expected to have a positive impact on the business of economic operators and their implementation is a contribution to the preservation of economic activity, liquidity and the preservation of jobs. However, no information shall be provided on the distribution of the funds that are now to be collected or reduced. We know ourselves that this is working here, so we can already say that one part of the natural and legal persons will be suspended and damaged because we only talk about 12% of private landowners will be represented by 12% of the funds, and if we know that the relationship between private and state ownership of the forest is compared to 20 to 80 then we already have at least some discrimination against each other. What some here have shown concern is precisely that, we already know who will be directly denied how we can know from which means then we will take care of what happens to the fire department, what will happen to the mining, colleague Petyr said in research that we may know better about the forest. So, what will happen to what has happened from this parafiscal, fiscal charge before it was paid, but what remains crucial is precisely because the tendency that biological basic forest is no longer charged from the General Forest Functions Fund but from the means in which the Ministry of Agriculture will deploy funds for the management of private forest owners should hear it. So first, we will abolish fees for the use of generalized functions, and then the rights of private forest owners will be resolved. Also, Croatian forests receive increasing resources each year for the biological restoration of forests from the EU Fund, and since Croatia's forests at the beginning of the pandemic, these strictly dedicated funds have allocated themselves to other purposes who will take responsibility and inform the EU of the total lack of funds to restore the forest. The EU has already reported here the Veteran Association of Vidra, which has its Green Squad Forum, which has so far collected over 1,000 pages of documents and people from the Croatian Forests. insiders talking about all irregularities in Croatian forests. When we talk about this, here is just one example, so do not follow the rules of renewal, for example. The economic units of Sljema Medvedgrad Forest Zagreb where the implementation of the biorenovation programme of the forest is only 26% of the 10-year rule from 2008 to '17. Year, 26%. So, in the Croatian public, we all know what all the rhetoric about so-called. fiscal, parafiscal burdens no one is just asking the question of what will happen to the funds that are really extremely small, here we have heard one subscription of television in Croatia is more than our obligations to the ecological Okay, thank you very much. There'll be a second chance. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6154	No, stay here. We have two replicas. She's the first respected representative of the Dark Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6155	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS. Dear fellow Boric. So the theme is that part of the money won't be. At the level of the year is 190 million kuna, we know exactly how to share it. It would be convenient to see this kind of change of law going on over the past five or ten years, what about those funds that were made every year? What's the result of these funds? What made you better? So, of course, we here when it comes to this law have a part of the flaw. We conclude there will be 33 million less to be fully correct, at the level of the year 190 million, which in 190 million over the last five years every year has been 150 million made and that is certainly something that would be good for the second reading to complete and that we have a chance to discuss it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6156	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative, Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6157	Yeah, very interesting, maybe we could get some answers here, some of our HDZ colleagues were talking about who they were. I am aware at this time that in the Croatian forests he is also not the foresteer Mr Filipovic from HDZ and my dear colleague from the Zagreb Assembly, but also the Minister of Agriculture who is the automatically president of the Croatian Forests Assembly, and the Assembly has only one member. So, we have people who might be able to arrange for us a little bit more detail on what with all these dubiosiss and maybe somewhere to run a little bit and here maybe some debate that's happening to us with this continuing devastation of our forests. You have all spoken here, look at the pages when people film trucks with beautiful, healthy Croatian logs that at the price of 1/3 of foreign exits from Croatia, and then come back to design Italian chairs, instead of supporting our own not only wood industry but also our own design.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6158	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Stjepan Shashin.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6159	Your Honor, Mr. President, Ms. Secretary of Parliament. I would like to respond to these frequent remarks that the Croatian forests are managed centrally or in some way too centralised. I want to point to a simple need or justification often times such management because through concrete examples. Here we were about a month ago, having a terrible windwind in the area of Baranja or Danube forests, and since it is mostly soft leaves, meaning European-American poplars, it was just necessary to react to our centrally from exactly the forest direct to include all the forests from the area and Slavonia, and that tree floor, given that it is a few tens of thousands of cubics that exceeds even the five-year-old forest eth in that area, only in this way is it possible to save that tree mass from decay, only in this way it is possible to react in a timely and timely manner. .../Speakers speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6160	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative, Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6161	I'm sorry, I'm not sure I heard you correctly. Unfortunately, we're under masks. I've heard criminally or criminally and centrally and centrally All right, I'll answer what I heard, and I think you were talking about management. [[No, you didn't hear right.]] What is very important is if something called the Croatian Forests and if the state is there in the 80% ownership of something exactly as a colleague should say, it should be a public interest, then it can't happen that in those thousands of pages that the Green Squad has, there are a bunch of harmful contracts where Croatian forests themselves create dumped prices that have not only made the desolation but also what should be economically high values and we lost it. So let's not fool ourselves about how to manage Croatian forests.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6162	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be the respected representative of Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6163	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Here's something I want to say about this first reading about the forest law. I think that in some 6 articles, there may not be much to talk about, since it is very clear what the Government of the Republic of Croatia wants, and it is part of a wider story that has been based on time that has been done in the past three years, but this fourth year and action plan that has relied on the pandemic of the coronary virus that has predicted that the Government of the Republic of Croatia will, through some 50 measures, reduce parafiscal burdens and untaxed payments of up to 530 million kuna. And it's already joined this year, so we've already taken some seven measures, seven parafiscal duties that have reduced the burden on the economy by nearly 190 million kuna. One of these measures in those 50 is this story of the famous OkFŠ, which is often discussed in the Assembly and certainly has its own thoughts. The opposition in its own way, always ruling in its own way, and I think the law is very clear in the part where it says what they want. What the government wants through this law. First of all, it is clear that in the Republic of Croatia from these 280,000 legal persons and 83,000 natural persons of whom 20 thousand are obliged to pay such a fee, first of all wants to reduce the total value of current 0.0265% to 0.024% with the distribution to which it goes, means 30% demining, 20% fire work and the rest of the management of state and private forests compared to 37 and 12%, plus 1% for scientific research. I think it's very clear and follows the government's policy that we want to reduce the burden on the economy. The second thing we want to do at the same time is to reduce the number of taxpayers who, by this law and by increasing that total income from 3 to 7.5 million kuna, will be reduced from 20,000 of which we have spoken to only 10,500, and that is what is the task of this law, to drive the businessmen away in the work they are believed to be burdening them. Someone is underestimating these 33 million kunas, but in a whole story that has been followed for over 4 years, decommissioning means through many of the laws that were passed in this House, it has so far been over 750 million kunas of reduction of the total parafiscal burdens and non-taxable taxes estimated at year level to nearly 8 billion kuna. So taking down 33 million isn't exactly meaningless even though many people feel that money doesn't have to be touched. We heard a club that surprised me again, a SDP club that advocates increasing the parafiscal burden. This famous OKFSH and then we follow their policy in the election campaign, their two representatives at one press conference and say when we come to power, we're going to cut that by 40%, just that fee. We're down, the SDP says we're up. So, gentlemen, I think that maybe the time after you said we shouldn't even have a tourist season, that maybe a little bit of your ranks should be laid down because it really looks bad, that when we're in opposition and we're in opposition and we're increasing, so I think this story is really going to benefit the Croatian businessmen, and it's not the last measure that's going to happen by the end of the year, we have a law that's going to go in order to bring the total burden through parafiscal burdens and untaxed giving, down to that expected share of 532 million kuna. And we will certainly be able to show it as it is said, both by letter and by number because there is a sequence, there is a sequence of the previous 4 years and the continuity of a similar, let's say the same government with Prime Minister A. Plenkovic who has continued to mean a story about this action plan but also the impact of this pandemic itself on the overall state of the economy in the Republic of Croatia, which is why I will support this law because certainly for the benefit of Croatian economies.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6164	We have one replica of Honored Representative Nikolic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6165	Thank you, Vice President. So I would just clarify why we are to increase the limit for the determination of payment obligations, because it suits small and micro-family companies that release fees and enables them to survive, for that reason to increase. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6166	Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6167	It's legitimate for your colleagues to fight for politics, but I'm saying, in the opposition, you're proposing a 40% reduction, it's not that much right now, now you're suggesting that it be more or more equal. So that policy really doesn't have its own line, and every day we're surprised really, I know that you're in the internal party process, but it doesn't look very good on the outside, because even though you've suggested something in the opposition, and the government suggests that we at least reduce in this part almost 10%, it's correct to support it because it contributes to the economy. You think it should be increased. We will deal with this in our own way and we will also show through the amendments to this law that we are ready to help the Croatian economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6168	We still have another replica of the esteemed member of Sanader, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6169	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I would like to welcome the secretary of state. Dear Mr. Boric, you've spoken nicely of this BOX and you've explained it nicely and surely, it's a very important purpose for how the BOX is spent and I... My firefighters, here's one MP who found out that they were driving that... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They share the KEFŠ in both grandma and uncles, so I would just like to say it, but here's your comment, means the KEFŠ which is obtained and which the Ministry signed a contract with the Croatian Fire Department is distributed through the fire departments of the county and the fire department of the county makes a decision to assign their territory to the public fire departments, which means that this is a lie that I have to deny here because the firefighters warn me about it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6170	Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6171	Thank you very much. Well, fellow Sanader, it's clear to us this whole story, I'm saying, it's mostly trying to look negatively at every government move, we witnessed this this morning in the current hour, we're testifying in almost every debate, and the one that makes sense, and it's really going to help let's tell the owners as much as we can without harming again everything else that needs to be maintained with one such fee and so on and the story of fire. We know in the county, I come from a county where the SDP is in power, in which some vehicles have been divided, etc., but it's not a story for this law, I say, I support it because it goes in favour of the economy, and I think that each of us should give the effort to make it easier for them to do their business. Maybe it's insignificant to someone like 1,000 or 700 or 800 kn, and then on the other side we say there's a lot of 5 or 7 kuna. So we understand that policy, but basically we have our own line, and I think we're going to end up doing what we said through the action plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6172	Thank you very much, the next individual debate will be the respected representative of Michel Jaksic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6173	Thank you. Dear Vice President, respected colleagues and fellow parliamentary representatives, so this amendment to the Law on Croatian Forests is when we look only from the corners to reduce parafiscal impose something you definitely cannot be against at the very beginning because every kuna that remains for our entrepreneurs is very, very much important and should mean. It would be great to say today that we will end all parafiscal intrusions and thus dissipate our economy but what I can personally say and what we can personally see is that because of this pandemic crown, because of everything that's happened to our economy, because of everything that's been happening to our wood industry, that of all those meetings that have been done with the branch associations, where we've been discussed, went in the direction of something light, something cosmetic, just to say there, we've helped you. I'm not personally against this, but what I've been able to hear from the field, there have been meetings where it's been appealed that in these times of crisis when large producers remained quite raw materials that they haven't withdrawn, that the same raw materials may be deployed to our smaller sawmills and smaller sawmills, but it simply gave up and resorted to going to public auctions because they won't be in crisis and there won't be any drama. In 2020, Croatia's forests had 37 auctions that sold 54,000 cc's of wood construction, probably 90% of which ended abroad, even though there are some indications that a large majority of them were purchased by foreigners, so we absolutely bypassed our domestic small and medium sawmills, and we probably had no adequate reason to do so. What should be discussed in all these amendments to the law on Croatian forests once and become a topic should be discussed once, which is our strategy with our forests because we always like to boast when we do some films or promotions of Croatia and our natural beauty and our tourism and our economic potentials such as our beautiful country, sea, water, forests. Because from everything that's been going on for 30 years in the Croatian forests, I'd dare say we just haven't done enough. Today, we have all repeated how important Croatian forests are and should be important in Croatian rural areas except that the forests are cut down here and there in all these rural areas, starting with the Gorski kotar, and I personally see it in some places around Koprivnica that have always been recognised in their forests, I do not see that there is even more of a demographic exodus. Also, if we came back before the '90s, we'd see how many wood industries we had back then, how many people worked in the wood industry, not just in the Croatian forests, but how much it works today. And that's why that mantra that we often drag through to export raw materials so that someone else can import design furniture for us, unfortunately, in the last 30 years, it's proved to be accurate. The second thing I already mentioned is that I would like to make a decision once to make the point of Croatian forests creating extra profits, then paying bonuses, that it was also at the time of the SDP government unfortunately or is the point of Croatian forests to develop the Croatian forest fund and also to develop our rural areas with their policies and also to assist our small and medium-sized enterprises dealing with wood, and not only large as it is today that someone can say we have achieved the mega profit and now I will pay off the bonus regardless of which party he came from. And the third thing is that I'm going to absolutely say from the corners of where I come from, the parties change, the administrations change, the coalitions change, we in the Croatian forests when we talk about management structures have already had the same structure of people for 20, 30 years. I'm not going to measure how much of which party or which independent lists or what options. And anyone who is willing to say here that there are no serious doubts that often corruption processes occur in the Croatian forests to sit here in a assembly or behave in a local policy that no one has ever sent him an anonymous and said look at those logs doing this and now I'm going to say here responsibly that he is lying. Because the vast majority of directors in the Croatian forests today would be more than clear that it neither holds water nor drinks water nor makes sense. And once again, it can't be the fault of just one government and one government, just maybe we should, and even in these times of crisis take this as an opportunity and admit that we have one skeletal structure that if we want good to this country, our natural beauty should be cleared up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6174	Thank you. We have two replicas. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I am, this is my fiery baptism, I have taken over the chairmanship of the Academy of Reiner, so here's the Honorable Madam Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues I wish you all successful work and we hope that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we will bring the session to an end. So, we have two replicas, first came from a respected colleague, Tomaševic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6175	Thank you, Chairman. Vice-President of the Assembly and fellow MP, however, I wanted to replicate because I was referring to what I was saying and in an individual debate that absolutely no one can convince me that Croatian forests as well as in some other public or most public enterprises have so much party staffing that we can also talk about inefficiency and unfortunately about corruption. That there is everything in public procurement and that I can also agree with you that I do not see any public enterprises, nor for Croatian forests, that their main goal must be to evaluate public companies' profits, which then goes, even if it goes into the budget. So we had 100 million kuna revenue, get the Croatian forest that ends in the budget, and on the other hand we have the price of wood for heating, which is the big social problem we have. So, I think we should look at wider social functions, public interests of public enterprises and so should Croatian forests. Well, here I was just going to say that I agree with you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6176	Thank you very much, time. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6177	I absolutely agree with you and this is the part that I followed closely in your debate, yes, and that is why I said we must bring a strategy whether we want Croatian forests to generate extra profit to pay for a bonus and a good living or we want to make sure that Croatian forests develop our rural areas because that same tree grows. As for the above-mentioned public procurement and everything that is often mentioned, as we often see in the media, I could personally tell a lot of things, but now is neither the time nor the place.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6178	Thank you very much. We have another replica of the esteemed representative Saric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6179	Dear Vice President, we won't sing a little joke.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6180	I'm sorry, I didn't hear.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6181	I said, shall we sing?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6182	What?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6183	I said, shall we sing?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6184	If God gives in the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6185	If God did, let me just take a moment to think about it, here's a slightly more casual atmosphere with a new vice president on what his colleague Michelle said, all corruption needs to be explored here we all agree, there's no dilemma, today's administration, the previous ones of everyone else. You have the interest of the president of the board when the company does not work very well to pay for the enormous bonus Mr Pavelic and I have something to tell you when you talk about management. If we can really talk about one model way of managing our resources, they are Croatian forests. The age limit for cutting down these rich oaks of ours was 140 years old today, and as soon as that oak was cut down, a new one was planted. So it is not your claim that good is not mastered or planted here and there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6186	Time. Thank you very much, colleague Saric. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6187	So, we absolutely agree about corruption, and I said in my debate that, unfortunately, such a bonus payment took place in the SDP era, i.e. It was implemented against the SDP and I after the SDP. But I personally disagree absolutely, and I have no problem admitting or saying it. And when we talk about the forest century itself, I'm not a forester, I'm going by chance to run into a forest near Koprivnica where the territory of the Croatian forests is, I went there and a small child and I can say that how much this has changed and what I see today, and what I remember from 20, 25 years ago does not leave me the impression that it's transparent and what it takes to run a Croatian forest fund. But that's why I've been in my debate and I think it would be time to open up that debate and say, together with the profession, which strategy we're going in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6188	Thank you very much. Next is the next individual debate, the respected Mr. Damir Habian.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6189	Thank you very much. The Honorable Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, respected colleagues and fellow parliamentary deputies. Here is the proposal for a law on amendments to the Law on Forests, which has actually been a lot of talk here both in front of clubs and in these individual debates. I would say that any measure that goes towards discharging the economy, according to the reduction of the obligation to pay so-called. The parafiscal loads are good, and I think it should be supported. In particular, we have already heard, but here we can repeat, these changes first reduce the rate at which the compensation is calculated for the use of OkFŠ from the existing 0.0265% to 0.024% of the total income or receipt of natural persons. These fees are also reduced by almost 50% and will be reduced from 20,000 to 10,500 due to the change in the value threshold. Total entrepreneurship will be additionally charged for 33 million kunas. In order to ensure the same level of activities in demining, fire and forest management activities, of course, this reduction will be necessary. Since we have before us a bill of law in the first reading, I would like to take this opportunity and mention a particular problem that has recently culminated, and here is the possibility of being covered by amendments or to be resolved in the amendments to this law. In mid-August this year, Croatia can say shocked news of the death of a young motorcyclist in Jelenje not far from Rijeka. Namely, by riding a motorcycle, he ran into a steel rope that was placed between the trees and died on the occasion of severe injuries sustained. Unfortunately, the event mentioned is not the only example of damage in forests in the Republic of Croatia. Lately in the area of Varazdin County, specifically at the site of Cheevo, Kalnik, Marof and many other areas around the mentioned areas, visitors of the forest received injuries caused by different traps, if they can say so under quotes placed on forest roads and trails of nails in boards, ropes, spikes and wires. In the early summer of this year, a runner also ran into such a trap in the forest in the Cheva area and injured his foot, and there are several statements by climbers and runners as they met the traps on the forest roads. It should not be pointed out that this phenomenon poses an increasing threat to all visitors to forests in Croatia, regardless of whether it is mountain climbers, runners, motorcyclists or families with small children. The existing law defines forest owners as any legal or natural person who, as the owner or owner, rules the forest or forest land. Furthermore, by order of the Art. 22. The existing law stipulates that ‘the forest owner is not obliged to take special precautions against forest visitors or may be held liable for any damage or injury suffered by such persons unless they have been deliberately or roughly disregarded in carrying out regular forest management activities’. At the same time, the Property Act and other real rights clearly stipulates how the property is bound or that the owner must not serve his or her own right with the sole purpose of harming others. In other words, it would be good to amend the existing law on the obligations of forest owners as owners or forest owners, as well as to amend or supplement forest land in such a way as to regulate the obligation of forest owners, whether it is public or private, to take care of its forest or to exercise supervision to eliminate such events in the future. Of course, the issue of the implementation of that provision is raised, but I am of the opinion that we must engage in solving this burning problem in the area of the forest, especially given the growing number of visitors. It would also be good to consider identifying forests, forest roads on which motorcycles and quads are allowed to travel in view of their growing numbers in the woods, and all in order to avoid such unfortunate events that I mentioned earlier. So here I suggest, here is the secretary of state, to reason for another reading in some way that this text of the law changes in that sense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6190	Thank you very much. Stay, we have one replica, a respected representative of the Dark Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6191	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS. Dear colleague. You've opened a subject that's extremely interesting. So, when it comes to forests, you can see it through spatial plans and through other documents, we have different purposes, but someone who goes to the woods to ride on a bike or walk in that forest doesn't know exactly what the purpose of that forest is, whether or not he can. So the idea that forests are marked, the idea that both forest inspectors have something to do is certainly a good idea. When we discuss some amendments to the law, we always discuss what the subject of this change is. But absolutely when we have something in two readings, and here the proposer has decided on two readings, it's good to open up some other topics. Maybe not for this amendment to the law, but maybe for some other amendment to the law we always react behind, when something happens to someone, then we become aware that we need to react. It would be good if we really reacted sometimes both forward and predict certain situations Thank you very much. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6192	Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6193	Thank you very much. I thank my colleague. Here, I think you've actually agreed to most of this and what I said. I agree, I said, so this is the law that's in the first reading, so it goes into the second reading, we have room to see, so these things that I mentioned, we try to solve in the second, in the second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6194	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Next is an individual debate, honorary representative of Anka Dark-Taritash, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6195	... Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. [[Speaker not enabled]] Here, I congratulate you on the first run of this session, this even a little while longer and then you'll be able to get to those late evening hours when it takes until midnight, up to one, up to two, it's just those most durable I can handle, and given your previous experience I don't doubt it. But let's go back, understand this well-intentioned, so it wasn't any other idea. Let's go back to the subject, so we have an amendment to the forest law. When it comes to forests and when you have a theme of forest and parafiscal loads, it is logical that a series of our discussions and we are opening this topic at all, and therefore it is not surprising that almost all clubs have come forward, and in an individual debate, there is indeed more than enough. Forests are the value of the Republic of Croatia. When it comes to forests, 47% of the territory of the Republic of Croatia is either under forests or under forest land. So we really have a special sensitivity to that resources resources. This resource really gives us some privileges, and when we talk about forests at all, in terms of nature protection or environmental protection and climate change, we really need to take care of all this. I often know the word, this time I'll say it again. When you compare the cards of the Republic of Croatia, I did it in another capacity, with February 15, '68, then there was an incomparably less space under the woods than it is today. Why? Because there was a lot more farmy land and then as it was less processed, which absolutely... And it was brought to some other purpose, so someone who was a working land turned into forest and forest land. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] We appreciate, I personally appreciate every effort in which we want to reduce parafiscal burdens. Of course, there's always a question if you cut it down somewhere else. And it's really a question of all this stuff that's come out of how it's supposed to be settled. But it would be really good to see a second reading in the last 5 years. How much money we've made, what we've done with these resources, what we've been doing, what we've been doing. I'm always trying to tell some stories because we're here, then we can get interesting. At one point when we introduced also for environmental impact assessments and impact assessment on nature, then we introduced a term that was an impertinent, actually a clumsy translation, a natural one. So how can something return to nature? It's a theme you open with forests, so nature recognizes things itself, but nature, especially when it comes to forests, needs to be taken care of. Take special care in the vicinity of cities where forests become part of something that is living quarters or the use of cities. Of course, this is the closest example for me, and I always like to point out, this is the example of the Bear. In principle, Medvednica became the daily stay of the citizens of the City of Zagreb, who go to Medvednica or Sljeme, walk, children ride on bicycles, they become in the use of all citizens and, of course, it is our special sensitivity when we see no care about forests. You need to take care of the woods. So really, as soon as we have a little change of laws, we always react differently when it comes to forests. I have to admit, there is a provision in this law that I am particularly concerned about, and I'm worried about that provision that says that after a fire blows up a certain forest, then for the next 10 years. it cannot be detained for a purpose called the purpose of the construction area. That provision in the law, I'm sure it's not good because we're always looking at some bad intentions. The coronary virus that is present here and was actually a propagator's trigger to reduce what we call a colloquial parafiscal load for a part of the forest. I wish it was a reduction and much bigger, I would like to really make life easier for the economy, and I would like some other means and other purposes to really take care of the woods, to take care of forest maintenance, to take care of forest management. Tomorrow we'll have an interesting topic, it's a new nature park that will be and we've already got a large area under nature parks where there's a special and different way of managing forests and certainly this topic opens the theme of forest management. [[Intruder: Time]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6196	Thank you very much. Stay a little respect, ma'am. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Dark-Taritash. We have one replica, the esteemed representative Tomašević, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6197	Thank you, Chairman. My colleague Mrak-Taritash, I just wanted to replicate what you've been saying about how we've been growing the surface under the woods statistically lately, and because it's shrinking in actually arable surface agriculturally, and I wanted to confirm it and say something that I don't think might be so familiar, and especially what comes as a surprise from someone who belongs to a green political option. And that's that pastures, biodiversity have more than forest, let alone forest land. So we're killing, killing, the disappearance of livestock, lately and the disappearance of pastures that then heal and turn into forest land, and then statisticalally begin to lead, in fact, we're reducing biodiversity, so of course we need to preserve forests and of course we need to protect forests and of course we need to organically manage forests, but I also wanted to relate to what you said was actually that we're reducing pastures, and it's also not good because then they're turning into such a kennel... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6198	Thank you very much. Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6199	Thank you very much. So as soon as the debate is on either forests or on agricultural land, it goes away and always a little bit wider and it's good to go wider. So, I deliberately said that this one process of shaming was partially controlled but was largely uncontrollable. At the moment when you guys stop working, it first starts in the chicaru, then it starts with these ends of our base, in some other parts something else, and it's also a process that when you don't control it doesn't end every time well. Of course, when you mention pastures, especially those altitude pastures that we have in nature parks, it's actually the point that you have, it's basically that small-tooth cattle that don't go too far now, they need these pastures to fall because it's worth it and it's that biodiversity, that we have this increase of forests, if we don't control it to the end, it's not every time good, at this point it's good But that's what we need to take care of, and somehow, at the end of the debate, I wanted to point out. [[Intruder Škoro: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6200	Thank you. Thank you, and you pointed out. The word came from Honorable Representative Miro Bulj, here you are, sir.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6201	Thank you President, I would like to request a break on behalf of the MOST Club for 10 minutes because we would like to point out once again that the significant management of one of the key resolutions of the Croatian state and these are Croatian forests, because at this point, if we are discussing amending the law, I believe that this minor law, regardless of the removal of certain fees, is minor to what the damages are done in the management of the waste of Croatian forests. I believe that the Ministry of Agriculture would finally have to protect Croatian forests as a primarily renewable source of energy, the other as one of the key ingredients for the development of certain parts of the Republic of Croatia such as G. Kotar, such as Slavonia, Spačva and others, quality wood that serve exclusively and only for export in some quotas through Croatian forests which are the purpose, which are companies of Croatian forests, which are the purpose of myself and not the development of the economy, mostly, in areas like G. Kotar where we have saw mills, where we have people, trained, equipped, people with knowledge about wood production, today we have nothing, we only have trucks that drive our tree outside, for example. Italy and we return to the added value produced by our people in these areas. So what's the common sense here? So with the management of Croatian waters, our drinking water, it is with an exclusive economic belt, with our sea and our unprotected fishermen, in Croatia have the advantage of the Italian fishing fleet, so we have agricultural land and I don't think these minor changes at this time of afternoon bring anything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6202	Time, thank you, dear Mr. Bull. Given your exhaustive lobbying, very eloquently and the fact that I'm running the session for the first time, I'm going to grant you a five-minute break, so we're going to continue at 5:00 and 25 minutes, is there anyone else who wants to take a break? No, if not, we'll continue at 5:00 and 25 minutes, thank you very much. It's the 17th 20th hour. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 5:25 A.M.]] The only thing I can guarantee you is that I'm Japanese correct, so here I said 17:25, we'll proceed with individual debates. Next in line is the respected representative Romana Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6204	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Good afternoon, Minister. The fee for use of the OkFŠ shall be paid at 0,0265 % of the total income or total receipts and shall be recorded as the intended revenue of the state budget or revenue for special purposes whose use is determined by the Law on Forests, the demining of 30%, the fire operation of 20%, the management of state forests 37%, the management of private forests 12%, the scientific and research work in forestry 1%. In the last five years, an average annual amount of EUR 190.7 million is collected for the KEFŠ fee. By that change, the total revenue from the OCFŠ compensation would be on average reduced by around 14 million kuna, which, with the reduction of economic activity and the resulting reduction in the dynamics of the funds collected on behalf of the OCFŠ compensation, would expect a slight reduction of activities in demining activities, fire and forest management activities. It is expected that there will be a reduction in other activities that are very important for the views of nature protection and the environment, so-called ". the ecological role of the forest, such as raising new forests, recovery, restoration of forests damaged by bio and abiotic factors, conservation of biodiversity and the like, resulting in a reduction of the negative impacts of climate change. We must have an obligation to our children to think and invest in the future in these difficult times. The KEFŠ fee enables us to control climate change, release inaccessible areas and invest in protecting and restoring the natural resources of the Republic of Croatia. The Greendeal European Green Plan gives rise to the need to improve the quality and quantity of existing forest areas and the need for increased investment in the OkFŠ, which is contrary to what will follow as a consequence of the amendments to the laws proposed by this Government. The reduction in the fee rate for those with a higher income of 7.5 million kuna can bring a much worse effect for the Croatian economy because the difference goes to large companies which are not mostly owned by Croatia and which will take this money out of the country while demining, fire and forest management would certainly contribute to the development of the Croatian economy because money is spent in the Republic of Croatia, would help reduce climate change and open new management opportunities. Additional efforts should be made and other resources should be provided in order to allow forest owners to maintain the existing level of conservation of the OkFŠ, for example. through the National Strategy Plan for Agriculture under the EU's common agricultural policy, provide adequate incentives or support for forest owners in terms of preserving biodiversity and sustainable forest management, thereby making up for and increasing the financing of the BOX as provided for in the provisions of the European Green Plan. From all of this, I believe that the amendment of the Forests Act is a populist measure and that it is not good because it has far-reaching negative consequences. For example, the Union of pyrotechnicians announces the release of 100 pyrotechnics with existing measures, and the reduction of layoffs will be significant and more, and demining areas less, which is certainly not good for the economy until tourism because the mined country is not a safe country or an attractive country. We are also witnessing negative climate change, earthquakes, floods and leeches, and all of this requires sobering and investing in the rise of new forests, the restoration of forests damaged by bio and abiotic factors, the preservation of biodiversity and the like, resulting in a reduction of negative impacts of climate change because it is not five to twelve, but twelve and five. When calculating the revenue of 7 million kuna, the measure would bring a reduction of 175 kuna which certainly does not affect business, but will have a significant impact on demining, fire, forest management and scientific researchers. I therefore believe that the amendment of the law has been hastened by the Government with the desire to show that it is taking care of entrepreneurs, and not thinking long-term, not thinking about the negative consequences for citizens and in general for the Republic of Croatia, directly affects science to the economy. The change is not fully elaborated because it is said that new incentives should be designed from where, how, when and as such, it cannot be acceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6205	Thank you. There's no replica. Next individual debate, the esteemed representative of Sniša Jankač.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6206	Dear Vice-President, honourable ministers, state secretaries, state secretaries, colleagues and fellow MPs, MPs. So here is the Forests Act, especially the topic is the general useful functions of the forest or the OkFŠ. So this is definitely about one parafiscal charge and the interest of our state, the interest of entrepreneurship, the interest of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in any case is to reduce parafiscal burdens and this is exactly one of those laws that reduces parafiscal burdens. It is interesting to listen to some discussions between colleagues and fellow MPs who, on the one hand, demand a reduction of parafiscal duties, and on the other hand, here condemns this reduction of parafiscal burdens. However, I can welcome such a reduction of parafiscal burdens as a member of the Committee on Agriculture and in any case we can say that it affects the most small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. This is exactly this increase from 3 million to 7 million fees, i.e. those who have incomes of up to 7 million kuna will have the most impact on them and, in any case, it is very important for these difficult times to see such reductions happen. What should be pointed out, in any case, is that we in the Rural Development Programme 43 have the option as local self-government or as entrepreneurs, as forest owners, private forest owners have the opportunity to report to measure 43, which speaks of investing in forest infrastructure where we can now make up for maybe this part of the investment of OKFŠ in the regulation of forest roads, in the cleaning of forest surfaces, etc., so that I draw attention and this particular measure which is still in force and which I believe will also in the future programming period be able to make all units of local self-government that have the opportunities and which have such forest roads or owners of large forest properties, the forest owners use such measures. What I can agree with some colleagues from the opposition in any case, and I appeal that this topic, too, may be a particular topic that should be handled in any case, which is over-exploitation of forest surfaces, especially as secretary of the private forest owners association, and I can say that we have had major problems precisely with the excessive exploitation of forest surfaces that are made up of private forest owners. Publishers of private forests that completely or to the extreme limits exploit and destroy the forest surface leave a wasteland behind. I think that maybe the next reading should draw attention to it, that we should talk about it because if we look at the woods that remain behind those who buy the woods and the question of whether to raise all the signs and to legalize their cutting, then it seems terrible after all. And definitely this is a good law he is on the subject of parafiscal reduction, but in, perhaps in the next reading, we should draw attention to the exploitation of forest surfaces and reduce it to a legal framework in which we will limit the unscrupulous exploitation of forest surfaces. What was in effect for a while, and that was then abolished, is that the police stopped and asked for clues from those who tear down forests, now by raising that quota to 3,500 kunas the value of the goods that you bring down in the woods, means the wood you're tearing down simply these little ones we can say and some forest-crawling people take advantage of that situation and definitely make a lot of riots on our private woods. This measure is a good measure, and this measure should be supported, but I am surprised, and some discussions are held by colleagues and colleagues that this measure should be abolished. So we go completely from extreme to extreme and definitely in any case the measure must exist it is good for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, and in any case from that fee of generalised forest functions are financed by all those all those activities that are very important for deforestation and for all activities carried out in the forest field. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6207	Thank you very much, thank you very much. We don't have a replica, thank you very much. Next is an individual debate, respected representative Goran Ivanovic in the public and among voters known as Lac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6208	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Ministers, State Secretary, State Secretary, Parliamentary MPs and MPs, let me also say a few sentences as a member of the Committee on Agriculture which was here a week ago discussing this amendment to the law. I would say that practically all of these topics that have been touched here in the assembly, all of you who have taken part in the individual debate on behalf of the clubs have discussed us on the Committee on Agriculture and would say that, of course, the forest sector is a very interesting story, so let's be honest, here is how many of you have come forward for an individual debate, and in fact, when you look at one of your exhibitions, it's about a minor one change where something we're changing that savings of 33 million kuna or it's going to disburse the economy for 33 million kunas. That's good, I think it goes in favor of what we're talking about, especially since there's been a coronary crisis not only at the state level, let's be honest local self-governments do a lot to encourage the economy of both municipalities, cities and counties. I come from a county that has more than 100,000 acres under the woods in its space, and I come from a county where we have a lot of wood growers who may be looking for more changes in the forest management law at the moment. That's good, that's a topic that needs to be opened, that's a subject to be discussed for sure. What certainly goes in favour of the fact, the reform carried out by the government of Andrej Plenkovic, is this. Tomorrow we will discuss the reform of local and regional self-government, therefore a series of reforms waiting for Croatia is slowly opening and certainly what makes the Ministry of Agriculture headed by the minister is in this sense very good. The forest is not just a wooden mass, it is very important to emphasize, the forest is a habitat, the forest is all that encourages essentially healthy life, we are fortunate that in Croatia when it comes to the land part of Croatia 49% of our territory is under the woods, over 2.8 million hectares is the forest in our region of Croatia, and over 300 million cubic metres is about the wood mass that we have. It's a huge wealth, it's a huge resource that, of course, needs to be properly managed and managed. What may be one of the topics that no one has mentioned here, and it is very important about Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem, is the great return of forest properties that the former Counts had in their heritage, and Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem are extremely rich in both Pejačević and Norman and Prada, Jankovici, these were thousands and thousands of hectares that returned to them, as they had to be returned to them by law. One good part of the forest that they inherited were cut down, cut down, and they naturally only charged for the wood mass, and they did not finalize any of it. My neighborhood, the Valpovština region, is well known for its wood mass factory, it was a factory in Beliss which was founded in 1884. precisely because of the great wealth of the forest. I therefore believe that what we are going to vote on and in these amendments to the law, this reduction is in this sense a good thing that opens up this broader perspective when it comes to what the forests are, and the forests are certainly one of the biggest treasures of the Republic of Croatia, so I am, of course, supporting the Minister in the follow-up of these reforms, not only in the forest sector but in agriculture in general. I think the crown crisis has shown to all of us that we need to become self-sufficient, that's what can keep us in the greatest crisis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6209	Thank you. We have one replica, Your Honor, Agent Shashin, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6210	Mr. Vice President of the Assembly, ma'am. Minister. I just wanted to look briefly at the discussion of the previous or fellow MPs who spoke about the problem of the security of movement of citizens through the forest or some unfortunate cases that occurred in the forest, and I really think that this issue needs to be further or much more precisely regulated because the forest is not only a forest, the forest is also a water habitat, or a fishing area, and often on the same surfaces we find people who have different needs, different interests, and simply that, their movement and retention in the forest is not sufficiently regulated, is not precise when and at what time and under what conditions who can be in the forest. It often causes problems and noise to the owners because there are simply people who at the time say shouldn't be there, not to talk about accidents in hunting, etc. Yeah, so I think until the next reading you might have be good and make it more specific. [[Intruder: Time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6211	Thank you very much. Replication response, respected representative Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6212	Well, I can only say that I absolutely agree with Agent Shashin when it comes to this whole complex. So it's not just about one segment, it's about the overall coverage, of course, that hunting is one of the essential features when it comes to the woods not only in terms of hunting but also in terms of protecting the savages that live in that area. So here I think that the principles of a topic that will certainly come to light in some time ahead of us are the results that we all expect, and that management will be set up essentially with forests in that way that responds to and people who deal exclusively with wood processing, but of course also to all nature lovers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6213	Thank you. We have one more individual debate left, honourable representative Erik Fabianic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6214	The Honorable Chairman, esteemed parliamentary representatives and MPs, of course. I'd like to thank you for coming from the area in which the Gorski Kotar belongs, all the parliamentary deputies who mentioned it. The mountain cotter contains over 80% of the forest area. It is an area that has its major problems that have not been since yesterday as well as other parts of Croatia, but these are mountain forests among others, including ice-frozen and one parasite called the subjugation. And the fact is that in both the rescue and the recovery of those forests, everyone contributed to the extent to which he could give. I know they are not the subject of the Croatian forest today, but about how they function enough to look at the ratio of foresters and woodcutters compared to the ratio of administrative staff. Why is that? The killing of sawmills is mentioned throughout Croatia. It was shut down in Croatia, but opened in the vicinity of Zagreb. Because centralised management of Croatian forests came in the early 1990s, so when we have one legal person who runs all the forests in the Republic of Croatia, the same way as you're away from the fire it's colder, and the closer you get to the fire, the easier it's wrong. Yes, we can say that, that these amendments and additions to the Law on Forests are decorative, make-up, cause, cause for, for rhetorical after-communications by which we speak of reducing or abolishing parafiscal, parafiscal accusations by far from helping. These measures that are proposed are good because they are better than what we have now. From that point of view, there's no reason to raise our hands for such things. But we still have the drama that is related to the mountainous municipalities, which a colleague mentioned before me, which says, the local unclassified roads that are in JLS de facto destroying heavy trucks of Croatian forests, and the income obtained from the forest contribution is no grain has been increased in the past, but too little. So now that we're going to change and supplement the Law on Forests, then here it is, I would like to invite the Government of the Republic of Croatia to add another article to the change, which is art. 96, so that the forest contribution in assisted areas such as Gorski kotar is not 10%, but 20%, and for other areas, instead of 5%, to be 10%. And now I'm going to tell you one more thing, where it's always been said, whether it's left, whether it's right, whether it rules. I'll tell you that this, this proposal was formulated in 2013, signed in the Declaration of... mountain cotters, signed by HDZ chiefs, SDP chiefs and other leaders, whether they are independent, whether they belong to other parties, and among other things, it is unanimous, but just unanimously adopted that same year, 2013, by the County Assembly. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course the government of Zoran Milanovic didn't do it, Oreshkovic's government didn't do it, the first Plenkovic government didn't do it, but here, this new government has a chance to do it, so I call on her to do it until the next reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6215	Thank you very much. This is it, we don't have a replica, thank you. This concludes individual debates. There's a final debate on behalf of the MPs' club. The first one will be spoke by a respected representative, Ruzica Vukovac, on behalf of the House Movement Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6216	Dear vice president of HS, respected ministers with associates, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. So, within the final presentation of the Club of Representatives of the Homeland Movement, we consider it necessary to mention several important specifics. Since we have found ourselves in an invisible situation due to the emerging crisis caused by the virus, we commend the Ministry of Agriculture's efforts to find measures that will reduce the negative impact of that public health threat on the Croatian economy. We agree that one of the ways to implement these measures is that in such crisis situations that could not be predicted and which could not be affected, which distort economic activity or cause significant economic damage, a reduction in taxes or tax and non-taxable burdens on economic operators in order to preserve economic activity, liquidity and preserve jobs, and through measures to enable the extension of the purpose of using dedicated appropriations to delay payment or suspend payment of the commitments in question, including a reduction of the rate for their accounting, as well as other public spending. We really hope that these measures will result because indeed a large number of business entities have come into sudden difficulties, which is due to the imposed measures, which is due to the restrictions imposed, which is due to the inability of normal business and market access. At the Department of Homeland Movement, we continue to believe that the pandemic problem could be approached differently, more carefully to avoid the consequences of lockdown and all measures taken in cooperation with the entrepreneurs themselves, the farmers themselves who have suffered or are still in harm's way. In the context of the first group of measures to assist the economy as a result of an epidemic of coronaryvirus due to, in addition to the provisions of the Forest Act, the applicant suggests that the funds collected on behalf of the compensation for the generalised forest functions in accordance with the provisions of the Forest Act may, in the event of certain specific circumstances, be used for other purposes necessary to prevent or mitigate the effects of Covida-19 diseases caused by the virus on economic activity in the Republic of Croatia. It remains controversial and insufficiently defined which other, over-needed purposes are possible. It would be logical to bind the provision of the proposed law that these are purposes that do not go beyond the scope of the agriculture ministry's business. The draft amendments to the law states that additional difficult investments should be made and other sources of resources should be provided so that forest owners can maintain an existing level of conservation of common forest functions. It is really necessary to note here that we often get citizens who inform us that within the tree cuttings performed by Croatian forests, the everyday phenomenon is that it is left in the forest itself after cutting the trunk, all except the trunk itself, that is, the log itself. So all those branches that can be used as, for example, for wood mass for the purposes of heating pellets, they're left to rot or bury in the ground. I hope that the legislator will think carefully about these circumstances as the wood mass is cut down by the national wealth of all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. So, the wealth that we should all benefit from, but only one group has the benefit of, and that is, a minor group of people in this country that my colleagues have already reported. I have one question left that I have not received the answer, so this law is foreseen by a legislative plan as a law to be developed during 2020, but has the e- Consultation process been implemented? If it is, based on the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia, we are the results of the e-consultation procedure should be obtained, if not, I would like to hear why not. And finally, I'd like to relate to a few of the problems I've encountered in the field as chief. So when we talk about cutting down forests, then along with this cutting forest are the devastated Polish roads, so the means for such roads must be provided, for editing and subsequent recovery of roads must be provided by municipalities, i.e. local self-government units, which is a very big problem. On the other hand, you don't have a model of how to get those who cut through the woods to fix those same Polish roads. On the other hand, we also have those socially endangered citizens who are often the only source of income precisely illegal forest cutting. Here, I took advantage of the opportunity, so I also informed the audience here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6217	Thank you very much for your esteemed representative, Vukovac. On behalf of the Party Representatives Club with a name, Smart and GLAS, they will finally speak to the respected representative, Mr. Dalia Oreshković, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6218	Thank you to the President, fellow MPs and MPs. This was a debate on the reduction of one parafiscal charge, and during this debate we also touched a whole series of other related topics. I welcome and support the representatives and club representatives who have indicated that there are also several hundred other unnecessary parafiscal burdens that are more used to finance corrupt structures and incarcerated personnel than to carry out those activities, which are allegedly why this imposes itself. However, there is a topic that we did not talk about enough during this debate, so I will point out once more in the final presentation on behalf of the club, and it is about the efficiency of the management of the funds collected. This debate has shown that we do not know where the funds that are collected on the basis of the KEFŠ fee are going to go, and for what exactly these funds are being spent on. Not only that, we did not ask ourselves during the debate, nor how it is possible that the system by which this fee should be charged and charged through the FINA has not yet been developed is not in force. Now that the amendments to the Law on Forests have reduced the number of payment obligations of this fee, the applicant has concluded that the system is charged to him through the FINA no longer needs it. Well, I'd go one step further and I'd say we don't really need that coercion on our own either. For me, this is just another of the additional arguments in a series that makes it necessary to abolish it as a whole because it is obvious that the amount that is collected through this obligation is largely financed by those workers who make up the system itself, so the system of public administration and its administration, not those activities that would protect the forest as our public welfare. That's what we had a chance to hear about in the final presentations of other clubs. Therefore, the total abolition, not the reduction of this burden, is also a good reason to conduct a quality and detailed analysis of the entire system, structure and number of employees in the Croatian forests, and the introduction of new forms of surveillance and control of their work, primarily internal and preventive. It does not need to be specifically reminded of the wind power plant's affair and the fact that, in the context of the crimes of trade, the abuse of positions and powers, bribery has been compromised by the Croatian Forests Administration itself. We therefore propose that until the second reading, the Government address these problems and that it comes to HS with much more ambitious proposals to amend the Law on Forests, which will result from one intention to rationalise the entire system and the efficiency of governance, as I said the introduction of new forms of internal control and control, particularly in the prevention system. Once the funds have been estranged, once the forests themselves have been devastationed, it is very difficult to compensate for the damage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6219	Thank you, too, dear representative Oreshkovic. On behalf of the Advocacy Lists' Club, the final statement has a respected representative, Ante Kujundzic. Here you go, Mr. Kujundzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6220	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. There's no one left here, a respected minister with co-workers. In fact, before us is the Law amending the Law on Forests, and here after all that's been said all day about it all the advantages and disadvantages, I would stick to what's actually for us in the Bridge of Metricum. We welcome a discharge like this as much as it is. So it's in art. In 65., some fees for the BOX are defined which should relieve economic operators by reducing the burden for a total of looking at 33 million kuna, which is a really good start of change. Therefore, the reduction of the fee rate and the increase in the limit for the determination of payment obligations is something that we welcome, and in the sequence of normal bridge of independent lists as advocate of one form of reform and discharge of fiscal and parafiscal burdens, we will not seek hair in the egg and you will get our green light for this proposal. What we will insist on is the protection of every inch of this country and demand a very clear, transparent and objective implementation of this proposal, of course, and all other legal implementations. In this brilliant morning, I would dare say the Balkan performance of our prime minister who actually confirmed that there are no stupid questions but there are only stupid answers, this law gives the answer that he has a good will, and when he has a good will, then he can make such a small step towards better, and despite our Croatia's need for sprint in reforms, I am glad that we have stepped so lightly and I believe that you are also aware of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6221	Thank you. We don't have a replica. Here is after this charming presentation by the esteemed representative Kujundzic, we will still be approached on behalf of the proposing minister, Marija Vukkovic, finally. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6222	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS. First of all, I would like to thank all MPs and MPs for their comments, comments that I consider welcome to help us in our work, as well as some that I disagree with, so I will further explain. First of all, as regards the observations concerning the need for more efficient use of our most valuable resources, these are agricultural land, and forests, and the Croatian sea for fishing and aquaculture. I would like to say that the Agricultural Land Act is also in the process of certain contained changes and will be proposed to the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the fourth quarter of this year. As for the substantive amendments to the Law on Forests, they are not subject to these amendments to the laws, to this Act on Amendments, this is simply a tool in implementing an action plan to dissipate the economy from the parafiscal and non-taxable payments adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and as its regular activity because it has been doing so for several years and during the fight against the economic consequences of the Covid-10 epidemic, so I will remind you that such a plan is fully worth 752 million kuna and in these 752 million kuna is also this small lever of the Ministry of Agriculture. Why 5%, why 10% or how the SDP has proposed 40% in its campaign with what I think today their representatives agree, so as a responsible government, we are bringing forward a proposal for those amendments to this general benefit of the forest functions which on the one hand provide us with the objective, redundancy of the economy, and on the other hand continue to provide the basis for the function that such compensation has, which is to ensure the economic, environmental and social functions of protecting our valuable forest resource. As for the distribution of fees, the distribution of this fee structure I do not know what is not clear in it, it is public, it is founded not only by our regulation but also by some other regulations like I said 30% demining, 20% firepower, 37% management of state forests, 12% private forests and 1% scientific research. Someone mentioned that in the course of the Covid-19 pandemic, we allowed the purposeless spending of these dedicated revenues, so I will say that, we have amended the Law on Forests as one of the measures intended to support the Croatian economy and that in a way that we have foreseen a change that speaks, the neutral means of previous years can be used in exceptional circumstances, so we have stated what exactly the circumstances are, to spend unintendedly only as a means of support for the Croatian economy. Following such a change, we hastily published a programme to help small Croatian farmers worth 53 million kuna for those who employ at least 1, and a maximum of 9 kuna, with 23 million kuna being financed from the savings that we made on that occasion, and 30 million kuna from the revenues collected in previous years, rather than spent KEFŠ. Why were they collected in the previous years, and the neutral remains? Because we collected them later, namely 4 years ago, the collected income for the OkFŠ was about 160 million kuna, and then we had 206,000 taxpayers, today we have 20, and we collected 206 million kuna last year, and we have also made a certain improvement in our business, by removing audit remarks relating to the previously ungained income, we have removed audit revenues, we have collected subsequent funds, we have submitted certain procedures, and we have made sufficient income to those who are intended to function, and here is the assistance to the Croatian small agricultural economy due to the consequences of the Covid-19 pandemic. I also want to say that this ministry started after more than 10 years of national forest inventory, a three-year project that will be worth 15 million kunas of which 3 million kunas and 200 thousand kunas have also been received from other funds, not the state budget. It has also been said several times that we will compensate these 33 million kunas, of course and better efficient financial management and income collection, and also our engagement within the framework of the Common Agricultural Policy under the Recovery Fund and, of course, the rational use of state budget funds, activities such as strategic and technical changes of rural development programmes that have recently allowed us to compete worth 30 million kuna for the regulation of forest infrastructure to raise to 100 million kuna, which is a little more than 2 times this savings for the Croatian economy. There are a number of other such activities. As far as Medvednica Park is concerned, it is a forest park which is managed, managed by its public institution if I speak well, also for what was mentioned today in the Croatian Parliament, if there are indications that I am not applying to the Ministry of Agriculture but to the forest inspection of the State Inspectorate. Finally, I would also like to say, mentioned here, that the distribution of wood quota goes too much, here if I may say in foreign hands, so I will say that in 2019 there were 345 buyers of wood raw material in Croatia 26 of them were foreign persons. Can management be more effective? It is likely that our strategy for the development of the woodworking industry, the furniture industry, is valid since 2017, 2020, we have launched a new one so we hope to adequately valorise the effects of this and for the next three-year period to find even more concrete measures. We were wondering how to make up for these 33 million kunas, I mentioned what we reported as a project idea, which doesn't mean everything will be accepted, but I'm pretty sure that a significant part of it will under the Recovery Fund. As regards the rural development programme, in addition to previously used conversions of degraded forests, preservation of the number of species health, production of forest economic plans, etc. we, we program investment in sustainable integrated forest management, investment in green jobs, new forestry agricultural systems, i.e. agriculture, innovation, development, research in forestry, certification of forest products, risk management and socioeconomic strengthening of rural areas, support for forest management restrictions. So these are all new measures programmed by this Ministry of Agriculture under the future national strategic plan. We mentioned demining, very important, here to be referred to this 33 million kuna within which demining should be 30% of the importance and problems of this system, so I will say that under measure 5 of the rural development programme over the last years 6000 square kilometers of agricultural land have been demined, and in, from the payment from the OkFŠ 1500 hectares of forest land. We also launched and received EU funds in 85% amount, the Naturavita project demining the area, a demining, demining and forest protection project in protected areas where 597 hectares from this 370 million kuna project refer to Kopački rit, and 1937 hectares to the Mura-Drava Regional Park. Also, since it has been said many times that the wood industry does not contribute enough, it does not contribute enough to the development of the Croatian economy in terms of the value of the funds it benefits, as I said, we can all be more efficient, we are working on it, but I would like to say that in this work intensive activity 25143 workers are employed, that it represents 7% of Croatian exports, that it represents 7% of the total processing industry's income in Croatia, that it is rapidly recovering, that it does not mean that it is permanent, it is still too short, we do not know what challenges are expected, that it is rapidly recovering, and that the growth in furniture production is in these last few months, as I said in the opening speech, has affected the decline in industry by 32.5%, so more than 30%. We have additionally formed a credit fund along with HBOR for those who feel the woodworking industry the consequences of this pandemic by co-financing the interest rate and policy insurance by ensuring the continuation of exports of this highly exporting labour intensive and valuable industry to the Republic of Croatia. As I said, this is about the implementation of the action plan, and as regards the comprehensive further actions on every law that is relevant to Croatia, as well as the Law on the Forests, the adoption of a new strategy that we are launching both for the woodworking industry and for the Croatian forests, and the national programme of inventory, which will be worth 3 years, all proposals and comments will be very seriously considered. Thank you for everything.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-16-0.u6223	Thank you very much. You're too late with the replica, my colleagues say, I'm sorry, thank you very much, ma'am. Minister, you and your associates. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I hereby conclude the debate, we will vote when the conditions are met, please just one more moment of attention. I also thank the Bureau of Parliament for the trust shown to me, I hope I've justified it. This concludes today's session, today's part of the session, we will continue the session tomorrow at 9pm and 30 minutes of the first point of the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on concessions with the final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 16. I want to finally commend all of you who have stayed until the end and those who say that there is not enough room in the assembly, so I must admit that from this position we have more than enough. I wish you a pleasant rest of the day. Thank you very much. SESSION Interrupted at 18.10 p.m.
