ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u5343	The next is Honorable Representative Davor Dretar's presentation of the position of the Association of Representatives of the Homeland Movement.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u5344	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Here I would refer to this presentation by MP Jeckov, although at first I wanted to talk about something completely different, but with all due respect, Mrs Jeckov, you are a member of the current coalition that is ruling this Croatian state, we will not talk here nor have time, nor is there a need for motives that have actually brought you to this speaker with this topic which if we are to speak honestly about this reconciliation and this new view of Croatian-Serbian relations that you and your coalition party HDZ promote, then I do not understand what this speech is and what this intensity is. You are in power, so spend these changes, and not like this from this assembly, I will feel free to say the stage, to go again to challenge the same divisions, the same frustrations as here recently, and the respected representative Peovic managed to flash here with a great saying that that is the claim that Dr. Peović had made. Francis Tudjman must be a convicted war criminal. So I haven't heard from your party at that time, not a single protest, not a single vote has arisen, so you obviously found yourself in a position to make that claim, no matter how much it may be, according to MP Peovic's statements and to some truth, object to one word or thought. So, please agree your views, we from the Homeland Movement will always be for discussion and always be for reconciliation and the common future of all residents of this country, but please do not raise the tones and especially this kind of accusation because your country's major JNA Milan Tepic, who killed 11 Croatian soldiers in the blasting of the military in Bjelovar, has his own street today in Belgrade. So then I ask one petition from your party, your people towards the Serbian authorities in Belgrade, is that almost the same story, if not entirely. But I'll be right back here for my speech. When we were set up, when the Homeland Movement started, we were called quite a bit of dirty political analysts and creative journalists, a team from Skorino Martin, it was as very, very funny, but here we see that the team from Škorino Martin in HS has 12 MPs, 12 pardons, and HDZ Martinje made a beautiful corruption monster in a secret club in Slovenia, former and current politicians, current ministers and managers along with the proceeds and drinks agreed on jobs, shared millions of commissions, worked in a time of lockdown without any inspection of any kind while small cafes, restaurants, small private companies and hair salons collapsed. Even Mr. President of the Republic found time to stop by that obscenity space so the man hung out a little bit, threw himself on the cards, joked, the rest of the extra food. He always found the time, it seems to me to stop by that space, but he did not find time as President of the Republic to participate in parliamentary elections as a voter or find the will to come to the Parliament as the president of the Republic of Croatia for a constitutional session. So obviously a good fish on the buildings for our president has more priorities than the work of HS and Croatian states. That's terrible. Currently, Mr. President of the State and Mr. Prime Minister are entertaining a well-known sketch of public attention being removed from real problems. There's talk of who he was, what he ate, and how long the hostel's minis were all going down together to the gossip party level in front of the village shop after mass. Due to the crown of the crisis and this economic crisis, the decline hangs as a sword, I will once again emphasize over the hospitality and entertainment sector in Croatia, tens of thousands of jobs are in danger, and of course we are not talking about all the drama that has shown once more by this corruption scandal, all the decay and inability of Croatian current policies in power to start serious, quality changes. Only in the end, there is little time left, to mention the dragon sentences of 30,000 kuna to the organizers of three concerts from September 4th to 12th at the Museum of Contemporary Art. The organizers respected all the prescribed epidemiological measures, shared masks at the entrances, measured the temperature, and eventually received 30,000 kuna fines for violating the physical distance measures did the audience get too close to the stage, which to each other. So, my dear lords, please open up a new club somewhere so you can discuss it with music, wine, fish and hostels, please, but don't forget to speak any more than 65 decibels is according to the new abnormal and insane decision of headquarters. Your Honor, I look forward to your violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u5345	We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, an esteemed colleague of Dragana Jeckov.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u5346	238, Mr. Dretar, thank you for giving my speech for two minutes. I will remind you that I am a representative in HS, I represent the Serbian people, the Serb community in the Republic of Croatia. And what's called the street in Belgrade, we should leave it to the MPs in the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u5347	It wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, a warning to you too. Next Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u5348	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, for the violation of the Rules of Procedure, In 238, a respected colleague, Dretar, in his presentation, has repeatedly mentioned the terms of corruption, persistently muddys the current set of garments, persistently muds Croatian government and HDZ, and we all know very well that the fellow concerned was a member of the headquarters of Mr Vidosevic's presidential candidate, the candidate ended up in fourth position and 4 years later in prison on charges that he had escaped Ten million kunas from HGK. [[Santer Invader: Time.]] So much for political correctness, continuity, consistency of fellow Dretars. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u5349	There was no breach of the Rules of Procedure, and you have a warning too. The distinguished representative of Hrvoje Zekanovic will present the position of the Croatian Sovereigns' Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u5414	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I intended to talk about one subject, but this morning when I heard from my colleague Posavec Krivec I simply have to talk about another subject, since, in addition to the Croatian Sovereigns' club, no one else will explicitly, clearly, but defend life from conception. So we're going to have another game, given that SDP colleagues are preparing an abortion law that is somewhat more restrictive or freer, as they would say, more progressive than the existing one, and HDZ is going to be more prone to it, and they're actually contemplative. So we're going to have another play in HS where SDP will defend the right to abortion, and in fact it will be defended by HDZ, only HDZ through the existing law, and SDP through a new law that won't see the light of day. But it's fantastic how someone can come for this pay phone here and call themselves a progressive, progressive, and stand up for taking someone's life without trial, without guilt, simply because someone thought of it. And then my colleagues from the SDP, but I'm also going to call HDZ a progressive attitude to kill the unborn, but alive because you can only kill what's alive, what's dead, you can't kill. And science says life begins with conception, so anyone who interrupts pregnancy kills unborn and that's what needs to be emphasized. I have to look back here at my HDZ colleagues who are going to love it when the campaign is so little that they're going to tour monasteries, churches, bishops, Claire and talk about protecting their lives, and when the campaign is at one point like that "The Forest of Stripes" when that daughter-in-law shows that snake tongue, it will show a middle finger to all those who are for the protection of life. You remember that middle finger, our former president, thank God he's ex, so Kolinda Grabar, who got the votes of the conservatives, behindrs, but in the end, she showed that she's progressive, that for progress, that it's short and clear to kill. I'm going to try and update this subject a little bit. Today in the world, we have another big fight for life for the prolife and prochoses, and it's happening in America right now. Trump, regardless of his flaws, he, and he showed it because the Republicans showed it, the prolife. Biden and the Democrats are procchios. We haven't heard the support of Andrej Plenkovic about Trump and the Republicans, of course, when he's closer to the Democrats. And all Croatian media, I must call them this time, so be it right or wrong, will always gargle and point to every failure of Trumpov and create an artificial picture in Croatian media, while Biden will show whatever his independence as a better choice. Maybe the reason is that America as well as the whole world is divided into two blocks, advanced, but really advanced, and those who have reason and heart, who are for life and hypocrites and really backwards, people who don't know the scientific facts and who are for killing live births and unborns, whatever. The action “40 days for life” began again these days. Here are the Croatian sovereigns and this action and all the prayerrs in front of the Croatian hospitals who give full support to the dish, because there is much to be said by prayer. And in the end, maybe just one brief piece of information that our Ursula von der Leyen said in the European Parliament these days. Do you know what she said? She said if you are a parent in one country, regardless of what Croatian law, Croatian constitution makes marriage impossible between men, pardons, between two men and two women, you will be a parent in every country. So, slowly from Europe we are forced to adopt this agenda and what the Croatian people clearly said in the referendum is not to be accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u5513	Dear Representative Dalia Oreskovic will present the position of the IP, Smart and GLAS Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u5514	The Honorable President of HS, fellow MPs and MPs. We have been warned several times in this assembly that we are new and that we are not exactly getting along properly, and yesterday the president of the state warned us that we are self-loving provoking because we dared to be outside the premises where the president of the country was on the other side of the door. But we try to learn from the more experienced ones, so today we got a money counter because we saw it as a custom in clubs. We're sorry no one told us the club should have a money counter so we didn't get it in time. The money counter in the bank or exchange office is a technical device and in some ways a symbol of transparency of the correctly counted money, an auxiliary modern means and nothing more. But what is the money counter in a privileged club that mixes cards and currencies of various branches of government and the level of political elite? No one would remember to give the host a money counter if there was no unequivocally streaming of awareness that there was some kind of money going around and that it was pretty clear to everyone in that club. The money counter here is a metaphor of power, untouchableness and sublimeness, so without a problem and before the eyes of any usual guest, it could be visible on the shelf. And here begins the problem for all visitors to the club in Slovenia 9, I apologize, there would be a problem for all club visitors if we were an average normal European state. And in fact, the whole country would be in trouble because at that point, we should have lost two-and-a-half branches of government and the head of the armed forces at one single moment. In a normal state, the president who goes out in the middle of a lockdown to eat and drink in an illegal pawnshop would be after two, three public pressures, even without the activity of the opposition ex, and our president threatens and insults those who warn about what the president's institution is all about. Not only that, he even says he was there two days after the earthquake when many Zagrebers could not sleep peacefully in damaged buildings, traumatized by isolation and the quarantine corona on one side, and fear of constant ground tremors on the other. At that very time of will, solidarity with all of us, the president, in his own words, forced the Chief of Staff of the Armed Forces to beat with him the enemy force of the seafood in an illegal club. In an even normal state, we would be left without the Chief of Staff of the Armed Forces because a professional officer would not be able to defend the honor of meeting in a square headquarters where white and measuring hostels are beaten until citizens can reach their old parents in a neighboring town or municipality. In an average normal state in one day, we would be left without at least three ministers that the prime minister himself would escort from the government to save both himself and the government at all. In the average normal state, a county court would run out of presidents faster than to be hunted by the country's fastest interceptor. In the average normal state, the President of Parliament and the Prime Minister each of them would start their public statement for weeks and end once and with the same syntagm without exception, we apologize to the public for what all those who have resigned or have been replaced have done. But we live in Croatia. In Croatia, the ruling majority account for 75 MPs, just one across the threshold of the required majority. And most of them, with such a shameful affair, are obviously stable. Will there be only one representative on the part of the ruling majority in Croatia who will say that he can no longer support such a thing with his own cheek? One representative publicly said that the only condition of his support for this ruling majority is transparency, he was branded in the Croatian public as an unequivocal and unquestionably clean and transparent mayor. This money counter is therefore here as a symbol of demeaning and transparency, should now be swallowed up and supported by the ruling majority whose MPs in the middle of a lockdown card, drink and eat in an illegal club and leave their cell phones at the entrance. Ministers do not leave their phones or anyone can examine them either at the entrance to the government or at the entrance to the Parliament, but there is obviously a place over which the government or jurisdiction does not have a regular state and ministers must also obey the rules of procedure of the house. Support to a government whose ministers submit to the Parastates and hide from their own cell phones not to cover any alchemy of the transparency of counterparts Dario Hrebak. If there is political consistency in you, you colleagues will surely go to this side of the Parliament, and we will all see if there is already someone who will immediately go to the other side And with this counter, we can count which side now has 75, and which side has 76 hands. [[Santer Invader: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u5547	The Honorable representative of Silvano Hrelja represents the position of the Club of Representatives of HSU and HSS.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u5548	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I will talk about what happens every day to many citizens in the Republic of Croatia. There are biological inequalities that we can't afford. Let's just say, I'm good at my age, but I'm not exactly invited to the football team. On the other hand, there are social inequalities that we have to eliminate to the greatest extent possible in order for all citizens to enjoy the fullness of life, be involved in community life, exercise their rights. The social, economic inequality, the problem that creates man, is that he was invited to solve it. Fortunately, we are in that ideal place, the Parliament, the source of the solution. HS is the place where laws are passed. Good, thoughtful laws make life a better life, a more successful community, bad laws reduce the quality of life and devour society. The law must improve the conditions of the past that led to the problem, in this case, poverty, but also prevent the creation of new ones in the future. That's logic, that's the motivation of all our bill. The HSU's strategy for combating poverty that we have drawn up in 2020 makes six precise laws. They are precise in the argument, design, purpose and target group. Today I'm going to explain to you the two that we're referring to in the procedure this month. The key word is census,... a limit that becomes meaningless if it does not adapt to changes in prices and cost of life. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Census of the border we're protecting. Last week in the procedure, we submitted a proposal to the Law amending the law on voluntary health insurance, which requires the adjustment of the rates for the exemption from payment of the additional health insurance policy. Census is agreed in the bill, agreed, halfway between 2004 and 2020 as regards wage growth and pensions. And they're still below the poverty line, but at least they're getting close to it. Our bill's proposals aren't orderly, they're not an aggressive attack on the system, they're not a wire or a search for impossible, they're not begging. According to all available information, the system would be sustainable with censorships of 2500 kuna for a single and 2000 kuna for a household member. If that's not enough for you, which is fair and just to the most socially endangered, know, everyone knows they're possible. Here, with that I'm already boring myself and everyone who knows me because they don't know why I'm yelling at 70 kuna a month. Blessed are all those who have 70 kunas a month, their kingdom is earthly. In addition to these censorships, 2500 and 2000 kunas are bound by the bill that we refer to this week. The draft law supplementing the HRT Act is the current social measure of our public service if you apply as a TV subscriber until 12.10.2015 and you have a pension, pension only, no income, less than 1,500 kuna, you pay 40 kuna. Everyone else pays 80 kn and those with 1,600 and those with 8,000 and those with 16,000 and those with 25,000, that range is simply too large. It is unfair and socially insensitive in the country with so many poor constantly equating burdens and claims. In our bill, we ask that all citizens with less than 1,500 kuna do not pay a monthly subscription, and everyone with incomes less than 2,500 and 2,000 kuna, respectively, pay half, 40 kuna. We're not populists, we're not looking for a complete suspension of the subscription because we respect the value of public television, we're just looking for a fairer distribution of cargo. It would be fairer to ask for a third grade subscription if those with higher incomes paid more than 80 kunas than if someone with 1,600 kunas were looking for 80 kunas every month under threat of execution. So this is just part of our strategy to fight poverty. If it is, it seems to you from your perspective a little bit, look from the angles of those which these laws cover. After the adoption of these laws, a man who survived monthly with 2,000 kunas would have 110 kunas more at his disposal, and the systems would go further and stronger and steady. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u5575	The next presentation of the position is the esteemed representative of Nina Rasputic on behalf of the Independent Lists Bridge.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u5576	The Honorable Chairman, colleagues and fellow MPs. These are free speeches and those who speak have the freedom to choose what they will talk about but I have the freedom to comment on a choice of topics that is as if in a situation where your house is burning, you are engaged in some other activity. You are engaged in any other activity in the situation while your house is on fire, I am free to interpret as avoiding shutting down the house or talking about burning down the house. In a situation where we have unprecedented conflicts between institutions in Croatia, where the president of the state is talking about criminal leaks of information from the DORH, along with these mutual accusations of the president and the prime minister, in a situation where the public is sifting the motives of the society cream that we see only in drug cartel films, so of millions of euros in cash hidden in the trunk of cars hidden by friends via escorts of ladies to the Pharaoh tombs. To talk about anything else in the Croatian Parliament that has been ruled out as decisions are obviously made by the main clubs is avoiding the topic. I can understand that they avoid this topic by ruling, so we and colleague Jeckov, who is part of the ruling coalition, instead of talking about this affair, are doing what V. Gotovina long ago called an exorcation of the Ustasha debt from Croatia. That counterpart Posavec Krivec, since her party colleague from the SDP is now in prison, is not talking about the affair, but here in free speech is the prearranged rise and demonstrates that he has his zeal and vigilance so as not to accidentally make any baby unfettered. Dear Zekanovic, we will talk about abortion and abortion law when the time comes, but it is unclear for me and his heroism and giving himself some exclusivity, there are still us who have explicitly expressed ourselves to protect our lives from birth to death. Comrade Matula, I also expected something from you about this house that burns, not some vaccination around the schedule and the captainship in the Parliament. What is happening today in the country reminds me of an affair with the Masonic Lodge of Propaganda Due in Italy in 1981, which led to the fall of Prime Minister Forlani's government at the time. In fact, a police investigation into an entrepreneur named Licio Gelli accidentally revealed in his entry a list of members of the Paramason P2 of some 980 people, what was shocking to the Italian public is that the list included politicians, top policy, top military, top secret services, owners of large media, and even what was particularly fun, the most influential political commentators. It has therefore been revealed that there is one state in the country, that decisions on flows, major political decisions, money and everything else in Italy are being made in the box, not where they should be, in parliament. There's been a parliamentary investigation, a government collapse, and a lot has been discovered. One of the members of the lodge was Silvio Berlusconi, then a young entrepreneur who somehow managed to wash his image and stay in the game. Today we have a very similar situation, in our club we have even more than it was in the shed P2. We have presidents, former presidents, ministers, parliamentary representatives, directors of large public enterprises, military commanders, that's what the President of the Court knows so far. This is something the Parliament needs to talk about, the Parliament is the last defence of the Croatian state and constitutional order. That's why I think it's very important to set up an investigative parliamentary committee that would deal with the non-specific Janaf case because the investigative commission can't deal with the processes that are under way, but rather with the work of the DORH and in the DORH, we've had a lot of things from the state's attorney-in-chief who filed the documents, on Wikileaks, you have all the reports to the foreign embassy and shows confidential documents where in any serious state you'd end up on long-term prison, up to this last one who was a member of the ridiculous Paramason Lodge, which is not even a right, but some Pera... from Serbia from the cheaters in the pizzeria in Italy got... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So he passed it on. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's what we're supposed to talk about, unfortunately, and on HTV, it's about bunny and broiler. Why don't we at the Open have this burning topic but we're talking about other things in this situation? Finally, controversial Prime Minister Plenkovic relativises the problem of corruption now, so for Barisic, which is obviously a problem because he retired his mandate and without it will have to activate the sleepers, he says, so it is not as much a problem as a Roman who was kicked out of the party because he did not take bribes but only about trade in influence and abuse of position. This is the situation in which Croatia is today, I repeat our responsibility as a people of elected representatives today is to deal with this matter, to save the Croatian state and its institutions and constitutional order. So I appeal to you to focus on this subject and for all of these others there will be time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u5577	Now I have several injuries to the Rules of Procedure. I ask you not to use any injuries to the Rules of Procedure. You can go to your seat. First breach of the Rules of Procedure, distinguished representative Dragana Jeckov.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u5578	Thank you, Vice President. He just used a colleague like me, the Institute of Free Speech. I don't know where it comes from. In 238, where it requires the need for my club to belong, it sets out topics. [[Stain Sanader: Which point?]] Why would any one of us be setting any subject? Especially not by a club whose popularity is becoming less and less than 6% at present. Do you really think I'm going to ask you what I'm going to talk about? during the presentation of the position I use as well as any other representative and representative in the Republic of Croatia. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u5579	This wasn't a violation of the Rules of Procedure, I'm giving you a second warning by taking away speech for words. The next violation of the Rules of Procedure is the honourable representative of William Matula.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u5580	Infringement of Rules of Procedure. 238. Representative Rasudić pretentiously... He's teaching and commenting on these speeches, and I don't see how that could be a topic at all, in which way it could be taken into free speech to simply use that speech. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In my opinion, it's a violation of the Rules of Procedure, this is a free speech, which is why I don't see why it would be used to teach this kind of class.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u5581	This wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure. That is clear to you, I give you a reminder. The next violation of the Rules of Procedure is the distinguished representative of Hrvoje Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u5582	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, so... 238. My colleague Rasdic said I was a hero about protecting my life. Yeah, I'm a hero and I'm gonna be a hero and I'm gonna be clear and explicit here, unlike you from the Bridge that you've always been so dim about life protection, you've never had a clear attitude. Even here he is, and you personally and your wife didn't agree whether you were to protect your life or not, but also it's legitimate, to be dim, I was clear and I'm going to be heroic about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u5583	It is clear to you that this is not a violation of the Rules of Procedure, so I am giving you a second warning by taking away your words. The next violation of the Rules of Procedure is... Uh-huh, Nino Rasdic. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] Here you are, dear representative Rasdic. You didn't turn the microphone on.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u5584	Excuse me. Injury. 238 from colleague Jeckov and colleague Matula. Art. In 238, I'm offended as an agent because I'm tendingly put in my mouth something I didn't say. At the beginning of my speech, I made it very clear that these are free speeches and that everyone has the freedom to talk about what they want, but that I am also free in the situation where the house burns, to say that I am signified that someone is not talking about the fire of the house, but about other topics. So, no, it offends me because I'm being imputed to have questioned their freedom in any way. You are free, but also, the public is free to watch this, and to interpret whether you are avoiding for some political reasons as a member of the majority. this in crime or maybe you're avoiding talking about this crime [[Intruder: Time.]] Because one of your patrons might be involved. [[Intruder: Time]] I mean Mr. Tedeschi, specifically, you're already Known as the tycoon... [[Intruder:]] Thank you. [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u5585	You also get a warning because this wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Dear Representative William Matula will next state the position of the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u5621	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I'll talk about the custom we noticed in the green-left block, which is that quite often, a large number of committee sessions are held simultaneously with a session, a plenary session in the Assembly. Of course we understand that it is sometimes difficult to organise it differently, but we are convinced that at this very time when it is due to the epidemic and due to anti-epemic measures it is, of course, impossible to organise a debate in the assembly as is the usual, at this point in time, the only possibility for us to get a little deeper and more serious into the debate is by committees. We understand the MPs, a large number of representatives who are not in Zagreb, do not live in Zagreb and who, because of family obligations or because of their duties as mayors or mayors of the municipalities, responds to them to be part of the week, of course, or that they do not have to be in Zagreb all day long, we understand all this. However, we are convinced that it is very important to have a proper discussion on boards, not just formally. In this regard, perhaps the example of the European Parliament is a good example. Namely, there are committees held for one week, and then there are plenary discussions next week. I see here the president of the Committee on Agriculture and I want to point out that, in fact, that this is not an example of our committee where I, no, really isn't. I heard here and President of the Parliament that he appealed that the sessions were held on Tuesdays, if I can't understand it, I can't on Mondays. However, I was also not alone, I was a representative from the HDZ and a colleague from the SDP last week spoke about it, and I had already prepared this speech at the time, so I have not been able to pronounce it, I just want to say that at this point it feels like it's kind of politically mature this situation to try to agree on which way to organise it, especially because those thematic meetings of the board, conferences that we previously, as an outside viewer, have seen, all of the joint presses in which you could call outside experts to be here in the Assembly, round tables and all of those similar formats that you previously, respected colleagues have held, are now simply impossible. And here I will take just for example, on the Committee on Agriculture we voted, I raised my hand for the Agricultural Chamber to organise a thematic session outside the Parliament, that the wooden cluster organises a session outside the Parliament, but it certainly is not a good practice. It is important that the Parliament organises and that he rents the space, whether at Velesim or anywhere that we are not from lobbyists and interested parties... of course they can organise it, but then suddenly we are guests in a very important debate. There's another custom that amazes me, which is the deposit or envelope of the vote, which means that tomorrow when we finally bring the experts into these committees, I hear it's going to start these days, that in a week, two of us are going to have these people, that it's possible that I know in advance because I agreed in the club that I'm definitely voting like that, and I haven't heard any speeches at all. Well, in the end, I'd like to say, is it in the interest of democracy to prepare well or not? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u5714	The following statement of view by the distinguished representative, Marijana Petir, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u5715	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, MPs and MPs. Today, there have been so many paroles and populist messages and statements from which Croatian people and Croatian citizens will absolutely have absolutely no use, while some by the model of bread and games entertain the people, they get muddled by those who protect the legality of the proceedings and want to show that we have zero tolerance to corruption. I want to talk here today about real people who need our support and ask you, of course, to support the initiative to introduce decent working hours and Sundays for people in trade, because it is a matter that we need to find a lasting solution because it is something that is subject to and civilization's reach. Today we have also heard a distorted understanding of women's rights, so I will remind you that there are 116 875 workers employed in the store, most of whom are women who often work three weeks without interruptions for an average salary of 4,765 kuna. So I would call on all those who impose ideological debates here and selective access to women's rights to address real problems and protect women's dignity in its fullness. Because in rare cases when a woman who is employed in a shop on Sundays gets another day off in a week, it can't be an adequate substitute because her family isn't available that day. Law and practice should provide greater protection for the health, safety and dignity of employees both in the EU and in the Member States. Europe, therefore, also Croatia faces several important challenges today, and I will remind you that one of the major challenges is the demographic challenge in which job uncertainty and difficult inadequate working conditions have a negative impact on the achievement of the balance between family private and business life. That's why I'll always be at the point where we have to be messengers to the culture of life and human dignity because more people and more genius, more talent, more innovation and more good. According to the Trade Trade Unions, if weekdays and vacation days are excluded, each store worker for the remaining 282 days of the year performs 141 hours more than regular working hours and this shows that the worker and the state loses at the annual level almost one monthly hour, the worker pays, and the state also contributes taxes. Contrary to the claim that trade will increase the number of employees in the service sector on Sundays, there is exactly the opposite phenomenon. Unspeakable retail trade cannot fight the growing competition of large trade chains, and small traders are forced to close their stores. It is obvious that Sunday’s work primarily suits large trade chains, often in foreign ownership, and to the detriment of small domestic merchants in specialized shops, which are also the most endangered group of traders. Despite certain merchants and trade chains' claims that their traffic is the biggest on Sundays and if working Sundays are lifted that they will record significant losses, that they will have to lay off workers, I must say here that the tax administration is denying them because Fridays traffic is as much as 50% higher than on Sundays. In the Christian tradition of Sunday is traditionally an unworkable day, but in Croatia trade can work 365 days a year 24 hours a day. Mothers who work in stores can't spend Sundays with their children, children are deprived of both parents, and that's something that's not compensateable. Sunday's family day. It is precisely this that is the most common reason for the introduction of a free week of Croatian citizens' instructions in the survey that I conducted last year as a Croatian representative in the European Parliament, which has shown that more than 80% of Croatian citizens support the introduction of a free Sunday. A number of studies have confirmed that working on Sundays has a negative impact on workers' health, causes emotional exhaustion, constant stress, and psychosomatic disturbances. All of this reflects negatively on family and human relationships. Therefore, personally as an independent representative, and the HDZ Representatives' Club, on whose behalf I am also speaking today, we believe that the law should provide free Sunday and decent working time for all the employees of the trade and we believe that the government will support our initiative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u5757	Dear representative Dragana Jeckov will present the position of the SDSS's Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u5758	I thank the esteemed Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. In Croatia today 2020 In 10 cities there are streets that bear the names of members and ideologists of the Ustasha movement, or Ustasha officials or war criminals. Bjelovar, Pakoštane, Slavonski Brod, Pag, Vinkovci, Bilice, Čacinci, Pleternica and Zagreb have the streets of Mila Budak, 10 April, Franje Nevistic, Ivan Orsanić and Julia Makanca. On April 10th, the day of the founding of NDH, I hope I don't need to talk. Mile Budak, to remind you, was the minister of worship and teaching in the first NDH-Asian government and foreign minister. Otherwise, a signator of a series of racial laws against Roma, Jews and Serbs. He remains known for his stance that forced eviction and religious conversion of Serbs is a national NDH policy. Julius Noble Macanec, Dr. Philosophy, '42. He became the head of spiritual education in Ustasha youth from where he was propagating and interpreting the chief’s ideas. He acted as Minister of National Education in NDH. Ivan Orsanic, head of the NDH promotion and commander of the Ustasha Youth. Franjo Nevistic served as secretary of the infamous Justice and Worship Minister Mirko Puka, the NDH Embassy's secretary in Rome, the last editor of the propaganda weekly "Preparation". The fact that some of these NDH officials may have contributed to a literary or other plan cannot have an impact because their moral significance and reputation is irrevocably destroyed by the participation or support of such a regime. The streets in cities around Croatia are not called because of the merits of these people in other fields. No, it was only done for the rehabilitation of the Ustasha regime. Media calls, NGOs protests, anti-fascist claims that they, they move away, none of them yielded a result, not even a constitutional court decision to call the street after April 10th unconstitutional and illegal. That name still carries the street in Slatinski Drenovac, the Čacinci municipality. There is a way, more importantly, that the state has the right to do so on the basis of our constitution, whose original basis clearly states that the full sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia is manifested against the declaration of NDH, and the Republic of Croatia cannot possibly be a sequence of NDH on any basis. The way the EU conventions we belong to are also ratified. Perhaps most importantly, there is a moral obligation to the foundations of the democratic order to do so. And something else you can't forget. When we finally start to respect our own constitutional court and implement its decisions, I suggest that citizens who are going to have the cost of changing documents because of changes in address, release all fees and fees to the state. I call upon all together to do what is necessary to stop our country from being ashamed of itself in this way.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u5759	Can I take a break or something?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u5760	Can I ask for a break?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u5761	He can't take a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u5762	I can't take a break. Okay, okay, I thought you couldn't. That's why I'm looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. So, Art. I can't believe that in 2020 we have the same brainwashing we've had since 1945-1990. My colleague Jeckov, this is a Croatian state that is independent and free, whether it bothers you or not. And I can't believe we've heard about Ustasha again for five minutes from your mouths and all thanks to all the Croatian-Serbian trade coalition. So cut it out.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u5763	This wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, you know, you have a warning. Good morning. We're continuing to work for today. First of all, the presentation of the position is the first renowned representative Ivana Posavec Krivec on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u5786	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Women in Croatia should have the right to choose when it comes to pregnancy, birth and pregnancy discontinuation, according to 81% of citizens, according to the latest survey conducted in the spring of this year. The study confirms that women in Croatia in the 21st century must have the right to decide on their body and their reproductive health. So for 81% of respondents, the issue of pregnancy, birth and pregnancy is the question of freedom and women's right to decide for themselves about their body and their future. The SDP Club is reopening this topic today in HS, this time on 28 September, the International Day of Safe and Available Pregnancy Interrupt. We remind ourselves, the task of our parliamentary representatives and parliamentary representatives is that, in accordance with the Constitutional Court's decision, we do not allow further erosion of women's rights in society and to pass a modern law that will improve opportunities for women's reproductive health and ensure women's safe, accessible, informed and free medical procedures for termination of pregnancy, as well as accessible and free contraception. The Law on Health Measures for the exercise of the right to free birth of children, which is in force today in Croatia, dates back to 1978. The Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, which in March 2017 obliges the legislator, means that we, within 2 years, pass and update the law. That deadline was simply ignored and expired 17 months ago. There is no draft new bill yet, and only occasionally from the media listen to possible guidelines for its adoption. And that's what we're worried about, and that's what we're warning again. We all know that in 1978 medical science progressed, and it is clear that this law must be modernised according to new knowledge. But it is also the fact that in 1978 this law respected international standards of human rights, but that it had also advancedly provided for later adopted rights related to the reproduction as exists in the Convention, on the abolition of all forms of discrimination against women, adopted at the General Assembly of the UN in 1979. Today, the termination of pregnancy in Croatia is permitted, but it is not available. A woman cannot execute it in the vast majority of health institutions in the Republic of Croatia. After a solution to the Constitutional Court and ignoring the Government of the Republic of Croatia, HS was invited to decide on a new law. The woman is a full member of society under the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and should respect her decision and not question her. Currently in Croatia, at least 5 hospitals in which the collective call of gynecologist is in effect and where pregnancy is not possible. In Zagreb and Split hospitals, therefore the two largest Croatian cities, a total of 80% of healthcare professionals are under the call of conscience. At the same time, the high price of the procedure is increasing, the medical discontinuation of pregnancy, which should generally be significantly cheaper and more accessible, is carried out in only 9 health institutions. Although most EU countries, such a medical procedure has freed payments and is free of charge for a woman, Minister Beros announces that this will not be the case in Croatia. After Covida-19 and pandemics, the data indicate that the abortion in the Republic of Croatia is even more inaccessible than before the pandemic. Croatia is faced with a series of obstacles and legal restrictions on the conduct of abortions that do not result in a reduction in the number of procedures, but have proven to force a woman to seek a solution to an insecure termination of pregnancy or to seek a solution across the border. Therefore, the SDP Club has prepared a new draft law on the medical procedure for stopping pregnancy that we refer to in the parliamentary procedure because we want to ensure legal requirements that every woman in Croatia has access to free, safe and legal termination of pregnancy on its own request. We therefore call on all progressive forces in this HS to support the adoption of the proposed law, which as legislation, we have the opportunity to bring this very sensitive matter into line with the modern movements of health, scientific, medical achievements of today's time. My colleagues and colleagues, termination of pregnancy is never an easy choice. But he has to stay a choice. We're not going to stand down from that.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7472	We are going to the first item of the agenda which is: - The report on the work of the State Audit Office for 2019 is the main national auditor based on Article. 24. The State Development Office Act. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the government delivered an opinion. Does the applicant's representative want to further explain the report? Here's Agent Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7473	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the Bridge Club, I'm looking for a break on the subject of the State Audit Office. Reports. We have to point out here that from year to year we have a State Audit report that has been done in quality and every time we see a number of anomalies that the State Audit warns of. So now, we have 50% conditional reports and as far as local self-government, state-owned companies, local self-government, as far as concessions are concerned, as far as state-owned companies are concerned, and we see how the DORH works. It's all the State Review gentlemen that we're discussing as parliamentary deputies delivered to the competent authorities, all the anomalies and crime that has been seen in the state's audit present it to us, we're going to argue, and what's going on? It happens that the DORH leaks information to us, yes, we see the case and the Fallen Krsh case, A Roman, and we see the last case, JANAF. We see how our institutions work. We need to discuss here institutions that are competent like DORH because the state audit is doing its job. That's how we talked about the shipbuilding case where the money was being paid by the government, they weren't spent on shipbuilding, so we have the latest case of JANAF. Everything is essentially decided in a deep state, in a club like Slavonska 9, the state review of all its efforts and we go through these discussions, throw ourselves under the water, under the feet because the institutions don't work. We see how the DORH leaks information and we see how the measures are interrupted, how they happen, what happens. I therefore warn once again, every honor of the state's audit, but other institutions such as the DORH do not function. And that's why our country's falling apart. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7474	Time. We're approving a five-minute break. We'll continue at 10.33. It's 10:00.28. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 10:32 A.M.]] Dear Chief State Auditor Ivan Klešić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7476	Dear Mr. Vice President HS, esteemed MPs and MPs. In accordance with the provisions of the Law on the State Audit Office, HS has been submitted a report on the work of the State Audit Office for 2019. Office operations, types of audits, entities and subject matter audits, and... The National Audit Office, the Audit Office and the Strategic Plan for 2018 and 2020 and the Programme and Work Plan for 2019. Thus, the programme and the work plan for 2019 cover all entities for which the Law on the State Office for Audit and the Law on the financing of political activities and election promotions are prescribed to carry out the audit each year, which are the Annual Report on the implementation of the national budget of the Republic of Croatia, and the political party, independent representatives and members of the representative bodies of local units selected from the list of voting groups. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] All other audits are planned solely on the basis of the law of the prescribed criteria, which are a risk assessment, the financial significance of the audit entity, the results of the previous audit, and the information collected on the business of the audit entity. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 244 financial audits, 47 performance audits and 49 tasks and recommendations were planned, and 102, as well as 102 audits of financial reports. By 30 March 2020 where the annual report on the work of the State Audit Office for 2019 has been submitted to HS within the prescribed time limit. all planned audits have been carried out in addition to the financial audit for two entities, non-profit organisations and a company owned by a local unit, and the performance audit shall manage the waiting lists for the process of magnetic resonance and the sale of shares and shares in a state-owned company which have been under way at the time of drawing up the Annual Work Report and until today have been carried out. The audit covers a total of 1105 entities. The audits have been carried out in accordance with international standards of the Supreme Audit Institutions of the Code of Professional Ethics of State Auditors and the Law on the State Audit Office. All reports of audits carried out have been submitted to the Croatian, HS, have been published on our website and have been delivered naturally to the state's attorney's office. Financial audits shall cover documents, documents, reports, internal control systems, accounting, financial and other procedures, and other records to express their opinion on whether the Annual Financial Reports are drawn up in accordance with the relevant financial reporting and legal framework. It is also assessed whether the activities, financial transactions and information are in any important respect in accordance with the relevant regulations governing the operation of the audit entity. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We published, carried out a financial audit of the state budget and 25 users of the state budget, 75 local units and 5 budget users of local units, 3 companies owned by local units, 19 national parks and nature parks, 45 political parties and 16 independent representatives, 24 port administrations, 12 student centres, 24 sports associations and 3 other non-profit organisations. For all of them, we expressed two opinions. Therefore, an opinion on financial reports and an opinion on the compliance of business. Thus, financial reports show 130 unconditional, 109 conditional, and 3 unfavourable opinions for the city of Virovitica, the municipality of Donji Andrijevci, DVD Lecturer, and the consistency and business of 140 unconditional, 98 conditional, 3 unfavourable opinions for the town of Virovitica, NP Plitvice Lakes and the County Port Authority of Opatija, Lovran, Moscenic Draga. The efficiency review assessed whether the audit entities implemented programmes, projects and activities in accordance with the principles of economic and efficiency and purpose. During this reporting period of efficiency audits, we covered the management and availability of football stadiums and playgrounds, the implementation of concession agreements for highway Zagreb-Macelj and Istrian Ipslon, the information system of centralised wage accounting, and the measures and activities taken to mitigate poverty in the Republic of Croatia. The results of all these audits are more detailed in individual reports on the audit carried out and the summary reports drawn up according to groups, groups of entities, and in short in the Annual Work Report you have in front of you. For all irregularities and failures identified during the audit, the audit entities were ordered and recommended to remove irregularities or to take action so as not to repeat irregularities. In addition, the State Audit Office has verified whether those audit entities have acted on the orders and recommendations given in the previous audits. This has been verified in the context of any financial audit or specific audit procedures. So we're in 2019. find that the audit entities of a total of 3109 orders and recommendations made in the previous audits have implemented 52.6% of them 7 or 7.2% of the orders and the recommendation has been partially carried out or in the implementation procedure 37.1%) of the orders and recommendations have not been implemented, while a smaller number of orders and recommendations are no longer applicable due to changes to the rules, because the law cannot be applied retroactively. In accordance with the new Law on the State Audit Office, for all those entities which failed to comply with our orders and recommendations, as well as those not in the State Audit Office within the legal time limit, the implementation plan and recommendations have been notified to the State Attorney's Office. I would like to make a special note here, given that the law does not apply retroactively, as I said earlier, to the DORH, we have provided notices to those entities for which the report on the audit has finally become applicable after the entry into force of the law, so, after 31 March 2019, in addition to the audit operations, the annual plan and the work programme for 2019 have also been planned for the activities of cooperation with the judicial and other bodies and the affairs of international cooperation. As regards cooperation with judicial and other bodies, this cooperation shall include exchange of documents and reports, answers to requests, clarifications and other information at the office's disposal, and participation in organised meetings in relation to the subject-matter of the audit. During this reporting period reports, documentation and further clarifications were submitted to other state bodies for 90 entities. All audit reports, all reports, as well as documentation for audit entities, have been submitted to the DORH, to which an unfavourable opinion has been expressed. Notices concerning the unlawful delivery of a plan for the implementation of orders and recommendations for 5 entities and 36 notifications for political parties and independent representatives for which irregularities have been identified in the business, as well as 27 notifications for political parties and 15 notifications for members of the representative bodies of local units who have not provided the DUR with financial reports for 2018 are also important and international cooperation carried out by the office with other top audit institutions in order to exchange knowledge and experience. As a member of the International Organisation of Supreme Audit Institutions, INTOSAI and its regional organisations EUROSAI, the State Audit Office actively participates in international conventions, conferences, seminars, workshops and in the work of different professional committees and working groups in order to bring work methodology into line with international standards and to monitor modern trends in the development of the audit profession in the world. I also carry out a parallel audit with the top audit institutions of Hungary, Bulgaria, Latvia and Slovakia with the theme of measures and actions to mitigate poverty, and we have started a parallel audit with the top audit institutions of Italy, Slovenia, BiH, Montenegro and Albania with the theme of the protection of the Adriatic Sea against pollution, which is co-ordinated by the State Audit Office. It's finished... a project to strengthen the capacity of the Supreme Audit Institution of R. Northern Macedonia, which our office has been very successful, with the National Audit Office of Bulgaria, and a technical assistance project in the National Audit Office of Montenegro, which was attended by experts from our offices. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The State Audit Office is during 2018 and 2019... The audit office of the Republic of Poland has made an insight into the EU Ethics Framework of the Court of Auditors, on which the report is drawn up, and the results of the audit are presented to the members of the European Court of Auditors. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here I have to say that this is really a great recognition for our office, because working in this European Court of Auditors is that such a young institution as this is a 25-year State Audit Office that exists is really big, big, would even say precedent. In accordance with the provisions of the new law in the State Audit Office as an integral part of this annual report on the work of the State Audit Office, an independent auditor’s report on the financial reports of the Office for 2019 was also given. I'd just like to point out here that we've been looking for this for seven and eight years. So far, funds have been provided, and I think it's very good, and we want our financial reports, which, we have no one to control, to be available, to be all transparent and to have the public familiar with our work. What I would particularly like to stress is that the specific challenge for the State Audit Office is to maintain the number of employees, i.e. the employment of new employees. What I would especially like to stress is that the special challenge for the State Audit Office is maintenance, so the number of employees, i.e. hiring new employees, there is a problem, therefore, with staff drains. Simply today, there are 289 employees in the office, of which 241 state auditors, and according to the systematization of jobs, 370 employees are foreseen. And here, too, I have to stress the problem that we've found ourselves in, and that's that we've come across what's inevitable, time passes, one shift of generations, so in the next year and a half, we're going to retire 24 people. These are top-of-the-line experienced auditors, which, of course, will represent, we have young, very talented people, but listen, it's a profession that takes years of work and we're going to miss those people terribly. In the last 3 years, 40 employees have left the office, which is because of their retirement, going to other jobs or for some other reasons, and I said, in the next 3 years, I said 2, 24, in the next 3 years, 26 retired employees. At the same time for the past three years, 54 people were scheduled to be employed. And the job is 46. Over the next three years, it was planned to employ 65 employees and 20 in '21. Year, 20 in '22. And 25 of '22, and 20 in '23. The planned employment is based on the number of retired employees and the extension of office powers and these obligations stemming from the State Audit Act, which was adopted in March of last year, from which it is visible, which even the European Commission asked in 2015 to strengthen the capacity of the State Audit in order to strengthen the control of the expenditure side of the state budget, and above all, the employment of new people. However, the Office shall seek to ensure the conditions for the successful implementation of the law of the prescribed audits or audits established by the annual programme and the work plan. Finally, I would like to thank the HS and the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the fact that the adoption of the Law on the State Office for Auditing the Office has provided functional operational and financial independence in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, but also in accordance with the commitments made by the Republic of Croatia to close Chapter 32. – Financial supervision in pre-accession negotiations for Croatia's entry into full EU membership, which the Government of the Republic of Croatia has undertaken to respect the independence of the constitutional category as State Audit. This has also been achieved by harmonising regulation with the requirements laid down by the international standards of the Supreme Audit Institutions. In order to achieve the full financial independence of our office as well as the obligation to close Chapter 32 and to close the circle, if I may say so, and all in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, it is also necessary to adopt a law on the salaries of authorised state auditors, which would include all employees, and which would fully contribute to financial independence and create preconditions for strengthening the capacity of the State Audit Office. The draft Law on Payments in the State Audit Office is under way to ensure, inter alia, adequate evaluation of the work of the State auditors in view of the particularly demanding and responsible work carried out by auditors in the public interest. Dear Mr. Vice President, esteemed MPs and MPs thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7477	We have replicas, please remain, Mr. Klesic, we have 15 replicas here, so you will respond to the replicas. It's a replica of Honorable Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7478	Thank you very much. State Auditor, you've made here a report that you've delivered to us every year and here we see that we have a lot of conditional and of course unfavourable reports for numerous local and regional self-government companies and, of course, it's crucial how many of you have sent DORH and other institutions all the irregularities, just so that we as Parliamentarians have that information and the public? And I'm curious about the key question is do we see that in recent days what you can't audit is that making decisions by clubs like in Slovenia 9, I'm interested in whether, if you did, when you audited the financial and business audit in Janaf, is it obvious that everything was carried out in Slovenia 9, I wonder if you did this audit?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7479	Your Honor, Mr. Representative. I'll answer your question briefly. So Janafa's currentity today in the Croatian public is generally known, we were last in the Janaf audit, if I can remember that it was a long time ago, it was 2014, we were doing a review of public procurement in Janaf. We've identified a lot of irregularities, we've delivered this report to HS and DORH. State auditors gave 18 orders and recommendations from which 14 were implemented from 2014 to 2018 and 4 were not. We have been reviewing the efficiency of public procurement for the period 2011-2013, and what is happening today for colleagues from DORH and PNUSKOK are doing in 2019, 2020. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7480	The next replica, the esteemed representative of Sandra Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7481	Thank you. First, to thank you for the exceptional transparency of this document that really made reading and understanding of the findings easier for us. I have some two key issues, first of all, the highest area in which the identified irregularities are actually for all the entities you analyzed are almost 95% in the field of accounting and financial reporting. So, it is apparent that somewhere there is a problem either in a regulation that is not clear or there are regulations that simply are not and may be contradictory to each other because I do not believe that all these people are doing it on purpose, but there is an apparent problem and in this sense we would like to get from you a recommendation that the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia can improve the legislative framework to improve the accounting and financial reporting to improve the quality of the rules given to the entities you have audited?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7482	Thank you very much for your question. I would have answered very briefly. I think it's a human factor and the internal control system has to work so that some things don't happen again, like Virovitica City, etc. where the system didn't work, if it worked minimally, it wouldn't have happened. You can say that here, too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7483	Thank you. The next replica is Honorable Representative Zarko Tušek.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7484	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President of HS, colleagues and colleagues. Dear Mr. Klesic. First of all, allow us in the context of our debate on the Committee on Finance to show one respect for the work of the State Audit Office towards the work that you have managed to do in the context of the real problems you have, especially in human terms, and in the context, we all know what the situation is and what it is about to take off the staff and will come if we do not change some things. There's two things you'd like to get through. As far as the reports you're working on are concerned, I'd like to know to what extent there is a relapse of negative opinions and whether any sanctions you're giving are dissuasive to certain public legal entities? And it would draw attention to just one more detail that is terribly important, and that is the context of all public procurement, which according to the 2019 data. The level of Croatia was around 54 billion kuna, of which 11 billion kuna was a bazaar public procurement. I wonder how and how this part is controlled and if there's anything more to be done, I'm talking about a bazaar public procurement that is 11 billion kuna of the total value of public procurement?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7485	I'm sorry. I'm not the first part. I didn't hear the first part, I'm sorry. [[Intruder: Time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7486	If I can do it again, but it's not up to me, I apologize.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7487	Answer the second part.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7488	Well, nothing, I can, you were talking about unfavourable opinions, right, that we found in business last year, last year. So that's, that's an unfavourable opinion for the town of Virovitica, we had, so 5 subjects where 3 unfavourable opinions on financial reports are expressed, 3 on business coherence. There is the town of Virovitica, then the Municipality of Andrijevci, then the NP Plitvice Lakes, County port administration of Opatija, Opatija, Lovran, Moscenica Draga. The DORH, therefore, has reported all of this, so the state's attorney's office, provided all the necessary documentation and still everything on colleagues to work on this case. I'm sorry, I'm not the first part I heard you say, I'm sorry. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7489	Representative Oreshkovic, you were looking for something?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7490	... [[Speaker not enabled]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7491	We didn't record you, but we'll give you a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7492	... [[Speaker not enabled]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7493	Okay, thank you, ma'am. The next replica is the esteemed representative Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7494	Thank you. My question is therefore, first of all, it is clear that we have some irregularities that you have identified, we thank you for that because it is very important that we have there, this information and the record that a series of irregularities are present in the Zagreb-Macelj concession, in the concession of the Istrian Ipsillon and in the measures and activities taken to mitigate poverty. But I am interested in what should happen if the evaluation is not fleeting because this is almost a metaphor that we live in today’s society where a series of irregularities have been identified, but the assessment is fleeting. So I'll remind you that the report says that Zagreb-Macelj's concession lacks documentation on the basis of which the concession was issued. So, as for the mitigation of poverty, you said very clearly that, I think what is the basic thing to one such extent, there are no clear criteria for giving an assessment of the effectiveness of the implementation of measures, which is the basis, means any implementation in this sense. And we have a really dramatic situation with regard to the indicators of poverty and social exclusion, and we really need to deal with them seriously, But that's not possible. [[Intruder: Time]] This way. [[Intruder: It's time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7495	What to say for what you are, this is more of a finding than even a question, but here's a thank you, I think it's very good quality. I would just say about, therefore, reviewing efficiency for the Zagreb-Macelj highway and the Istrian Ipsilon, we have described everything in this comprehensive report, I think it is clear, it is necessary, it has been delivered to the State's attorney for further treatment, we are not the ones who can sanction it. As for the warrant and the recommendations you mentioned in the review of poverty, so all the orders and recommendations we make, by amending the law or by passing a new law, I said by amending it because it is a new article, that is, art. 35. which, therefore, is regulated in a way that, which is regulated in a way that the tasks and recommendations auditors give, and the plan of the order and the implementation of the recommendation can deliver to us and of course what they have done. If they don't, then we deliver, we deliver a report to the state's attorney's office to those who didn't, and you know it's a team. 35th Law at the request of the European Commission fines of 20 to 50,000 kuna for the audit entity have been imposed and 2 to 20,000 kuna have been imposed [[Intruder: Time]] for a legal representative. [[Intruder: Thank you, time]] Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7496	Thank you very much, all right. The next replica of the respected representative Dalia Oreshkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7497	Your Honor, here's a lot of information you've listed in your report, and I couldn't agree that this is a comprehensive report because you've indicated where all the money leaks and how it's mismanaged, but you didn't describe it until the end. I'll point out only one detail to which I'd like your answer. In fact, you're saying hospital health institutions have been having difficulties for many years because of their losses. You also say that the stability of the operations of hospital health institutions has not been achieved, and that hospital institutions still do not have enough funds for regular settlement of obligations. You also find that the State Audit Office has expressed its opinion and problems that the financing of the health system cannot be resolved in the longer term by the occasional assistance provided by the State budget to hospital health institutions and that it is necessary to take action as soon as possible to ensure the conditions for their stable and rational business. My question is, did you, when, in which way, how detailed did you explain where that money leaks, why we have problems like this in the financing of health care? and can these documents be made publicly available to you? [[Intruder: Thank you]] All MPs in HS? [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7498	Thank you very much, time. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7499	Dear MPs, also a very good question, I will answer you very clearly. We do thematic audits every perhaps 2-3 years, then we process a complete health system in the Republic of Croatia. There's also former Minister Lalovec, and he knows it very well. So, at the sessions of this house, and also at the meetings of the Committee on Finance and Budget, we presented these reports. And you're absolutely right, from year to year these debts are piled up and it doesn't seem like much, and besides, we don't even know for ourselves what the right solution is, but we've always given and given some suggestions to get rid of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7500	Thank you. Next replica, Honored Representative Boris Lalovac Excuse me. [[Intruder Oreshkovic: Excuse me, the question was whenever and who?]] Thank you, beautiful. Next replica, Mr. Boris Lalovec, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7501	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear State Auditor. So here's when we look at your reports this year that actually find certain irregularities, it turns out that every year in Croatia it gets worse and worse. So I ask you purely to get, the public to get a certain perception, as it is, however, I still think that these reports have an effect on the fact that they have an effect on both the Parliament and the Committee on Finance, etc., on the general public, so it is your feeling that, in fact, Croatia or all those users, are being repaired in the last 5, 6, 7 or 10 years? When we look at it like this, it turns out we're even worse than 2009. So I'm just curious about this trend whether Croatia or the users of these state budgets, whether we're fixing anything as one trend of time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7502	Thank you very much. Excuse me, Mr. State Auditor, you can speak when I give you my word, please, reply to the line, all right, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7503	Thank you very much. Your Honor, yes, people have the impression that from year to year things are getting worse but I wouldn't say so, here's what my deputy said to me. delivered almost everyone within the legal deadline plan... [[I'm sorry, I have to interrupt, please forgive...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7504	Mr. Clesic, I have to interrupt. Mr. Zekanovic and Mr. Beljak, please, if you have any conversations, take them outside the assembly, you have to wear masks, we stick to all these rules, thank you very much for understanding. Besides, Mr. Whiteman, you're either actually or one of you is odd here, excess, here, here. We have to, excuse me, just to be clear. Mr. Zekanovic, do you have any right now? Is there a representative of yours already here? [[Invadica Klesic: Go ahead.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7505	Yes, Your Honor, I've raised my line, and now it's going to be any minute. And there's less than 41 of us in the Assembly so I think the epidemiological measures are being met, so there's 30 and a couple. Okay, if you'll call me when it's done, I'll be outside and you let me know. [[I totally understand you, but those are the rules.]] Okay, I'll be outside. [[I'll send someone.]] [[I don't know what you're talking about.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7506	Okay. Thank you very much. Excuse me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7507	So, I think things are still getting better, especially with this new law and this article. 35. I would say it by warning those who don't because the European Commission followed the development of the situation with us and they saw it, for example. One subject who has not carried out any warrants and recommendations in seven years, it is now changing, sanctions have been imposed for those who do not respect it, and I think that these things are moving for the better. I hope you're satisfied with the answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7508	Thank you very much. Next replica, Your Honor, Mr. Troscott, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7509	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, distinguished MPs and MPs, Mr. Chief Auditor. By reading your reports, we would first of all like to thank you for your exhaustive work, and I would agree with the conclusion that these reports really provide a lot of exhaustive information regarding the situation on the ground. By reading your performance audits, we have seen two of the main common denominators, it is that there is a lack of documentation in the public tender and that there are no processes and procedures in public procurement to even see what the selection process of the supplier was. Our question is, what can we, as a legislative body, do to prevent, for example, one Janaf, especially on projects such as the Macelj and the Istrian Ipsion highways, given that many of these two projects are evacuating these affairs in Janaf? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7510	The reply to the replica, Your Honor, Mr. Klesic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7511	Thank you very much for your question. Your question is indeed I would say very well as you asked a question on the Committee on Finance and Budget regarding that materiality in the audit, etc., a very professional question. As far as this is concerned, we feel that institutions simply need to do their job. I'll be here in this case as my answer would be one that said a phrase used in public, institutions need to do their job, we did our job very professionally, we delivered all the necessary documentation we had and wrote everything the auditors found. It's all clear. If no documentation is available on the basis of which a concessionary has been selected. Thank you very much, that's it, I hope you're satisfied with the answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7512	Thank you. Next replica, Mr. Branko Bacic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7513	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr Klešić, congratulations on the work of the State Audit Office and how to report to the Croatian Parliament on the audits carried out. What I would like to point out in particular is your revision of the business of political parties and when you look a little bit better at which political parties have conditional or unconditional opinions, then, in general, those parties who are very loud here in the Croatian Parliament and during the morning, are waiting for others on how they do business, work, possible illegalities, generally have conditional opinions, which means that they themselves do not work in accordance with the law. Not to say that the DIP published and pointed out irregularities in financial operations during the SDP election campaign and other parties of the Restar coalition, and the Homeland Movement and Most, and Parties with names and last names and Focus and Smarts, because, for example, they did not deliver fuel accounts, restaurant accounts, cafes, pizzerias, there are no leases and leases for business premises, no receipts for specs and malls, etc., double criteria. On the one hand is being delivered here and on the other hand their business is absolutely not in accordance with the law. [[Intruder Škoro: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7514	Time, time, thank you. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Nuts.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7515	Dear fellow Bačić, you are not holding the subject of this report. I don't mind talking about irregularities and very minor, technical irregularities about political party reports, but I'd rather you were worried about what it says on the page. 15 reports of this, you can't hear me well, and it would be a shame if Mr. Bacic didn't hear me. ... He gets more upset when he hears good. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Intruder Škoro: Please, thank you, time./...... institution in health care, museums, theatres, institutions in culture [[Please, please, thank you very much, ma'am. Nuts. So here we're talking about levels....../]] which distribute taxpayers' money [[Invader Škoro: Please don't make me give you a warning.]] It's mostly your furniture and party-involved personnel. [[/Intruder Škoro: Mrs. Oreshkovic.]] That's the main problem of this country.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7516	Ma'am. Oreshkovic, I give you a warning, thank you very much, thank you very much, I give you a reminder. I ask you nicely, let's stick to order, let's do as the Rules of Procedure says, don't make me act like I'm not in my character, and I wouldn't like to apologize to you, so this isn't a violation of the Rules of Procedure, you've been warned, Mr. Bacic also deserved to at least draw attention to him not to imply some things in his replica that are not related to the subject and now the answer to Mr. Bačić's replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7517	I don't have what to say, even if it's asked for me to answer something, this wasn't even a question, it was more of a finding, right, but as far as we're concerned, the political parties are obliged to submit their financial reports to the State Audit Office, DIP and FINA. Until about three or four years ago, so we're according to that article. In 42. we had the opportunity to inform the Committee on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament who had further jurisdiction regarding the handling of any irregularities and, of course, the DORH so that we wrote everything we wrote, so we wrote in our reports. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7518	Thank you. The next replica, the esteemed Mr. Named Brumnic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7519	Hello, nice to meet you. I must admit, for years with interest, I have been reading your reports on the city of Zagreb and in these reports, some of the measures that you are prescribing are constantly not being implemented and I am particularly interested in whether you have ever made an audit of Zagreb waste water, concessionaires in the city of Zagreb, which has been carrying out inappropriate and illegal profits of 170 million kuna a year? Here.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7520	Thank you very much, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7521	Here, I'll answer you, also a good question, of course. I'd say like this, we haven't done it in a long time, I have to admit, but with 244 authorised state auditors and 15 000 and some of the entities in our jurisdiction, we just can't do it all. These obligations or powers or powers of all our audits are still extended by this new law because we have received the implementation of orders and recommendations as one segment and we have received a warrant for the audit of the most monetary institutions in the Republic of Croatia, which is the CNB but what you said, we all record what parliamentary representatives and MPs in this House say and therefore we will definitely plan it and in the future we will carry out that audit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7522	Thank you. It's time for a respected representative, Mariana Petyr, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7523	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Chief state auditors, I would like to point out once again my support for the way and commitment the State Audit is doing its job. From your exposure that was, I would say really moderately, we can hear a voice crying out from the desert because if 52% of the recommendations are fulfilled then we see that we have a problem with that 48% remainder, obviously there are some relapsings who do not want to listen to the recommendations and get back on track. So I would ask you, do you think it might be necessary to provide some additional legal mechanisms to remove these weaknesses that you now see?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7524	Thank you, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7525	Well, here's what I'm going to answer your question, look, I think this is by introducing an ankle. 35. Therefore, for sanctioning those who do not carry out the tasks and recommendations of the State Audit, fines have been imposed, so for the audit entity it is 50 to 100 000 and for the legal representative 2 to 20 000. So that's what I would say, maybe one important way to maybe get people moving a little bit, and the other thing is, of course, what they have to do from the DORH that has these legal powers because we don't have those legal powers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7526	Thank you. Next replica, the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7527	Dear Mr. Klesic, you know I appreciate the extraordinary effort of all your officers and you in the accuracy of your audits, but I think they become more sacred guides every year. So there's no effect because no one's acting on it. So, you have on one side the inspectors who pay 40, 50,000 kn because there's something wrong with the menu, and the ministers don't have bills here. Therefore, I think that the time has matured for an independent audit under opposition parliamentary supervision because we have a comprehensive and comprehensive ineffectiveness of all systems and, in particular, a third pillar of government that simply does not process any criminal or criminal matters that you find. So, we have to imagine, we have to change the system because it's totally inefficient. My people, you can say whatever you want, but... but the anti-poverty strategy, from 2014 to 2020, is a dead letter on paper. [[Intruder Škoro: Time of fellow Hrelja.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7528	Please, thank you, time's up, reply to the replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7529	I don't have the same thing to say. This is more of a finding. It's all right. [[The Hrelja raid: Excuse me.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7530	Thank you. You can say I agree, say. I'm kidding. Next replica, Mr. Angelko Striker.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7531	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, chief state auditors with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Of course, today in this debate there will be both praise and criticism and criticism, criticism and suggestions, everything. However, on the page. 38 and 39, we have a plate no. 12 which reads, opinions on financial reports and on the compliance of business with political parties. The audit included 45 independent lists, 24 of which received unconditional opinions on both criteria, and 21 parties or an independent list conditionally or 46%. The 46% today, the day after tomorrow, will be the loudest in calling everyone and everyone. But I answered for the next one. You said all your reports where there were irregularities were delivered to the DORH. Do you have any feedback on what took place and got rid of it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7532	Thank you. Here's the answer to the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7533	Thank you very much, Vice President. Your Honor, Mr. Representative, I said that at first, it's our legal obligation. So, when we finish a certain cycle of audits, we deliver these audits first on the same day, to the state's attorney's office and publish on our website the same day. The same day we also invite all media representatives to our office, meaning written media, television houses, etc., where we answer the question of journalists regarding our audits that we have carried out. So, we deliver all this, I repeat, state auditors are not experts in criminal and criminal law, it's the work of some other institutions, we do our job, what happens next, they, colleagues from the State's Attorney's Office, are not obliged to report what they did to our reports. They come here as we came from the state audit today and file a report to this high house where then you can ask what was done according to some of the audits that we've done. And especially by those [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]] on which an unfavourable opinion has been given. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7534	Thank you, time. The next replica will be appointed by a representative who wears the mask for solidarity and aesthetic reasons, Mr. Hrvoje Zekanovic, please welcome Mr. Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7535	Dear Vice President, I see you're doing well in your new function. Here, since you mentioned it, I sent a memo if you have any information as to whether anyone from HZZO answered whether I should wear a mask or not, not just me, but also my colleague Bartulica... [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you very much. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[Intruder: Please stick to the topic, thank you]] Your Honor, Vice President. [[Intruder: Please]] So the question is does it even make sense to do audits the way you do them? Because you end up giving a model, good or bad grade, and it stays on it. It's like running a school. And in fact, a parent is happy when a child brings him an A, and that rule almost doesn't even look, looking almost and not looking because there's no sanctions actually. So I'd like everything you do to have some sanctions, or eventually, that all those who have broken that they have to follow your instructions, which they don't.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7536	Your Honor, Mr. Representative...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7537	Here you go, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7538	...if I...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7539	The answer, yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7540	Thank you very much. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7541	Please, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7542	I'm a little fast.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7543	I see you're in a hurry, but here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7544	Thank you very much for your question. I'll answer it like this. So here, so you can even interpret this question as, does it even make sense that there's a state audit? And I'll tell you, the most civilized societies in Europe and in the world have established state audits as institutions over 300 years old, Austria, Germany, Hungary, Great Britain, Italy, Spain, the United States, all South American countries over 200 years, so the revision makes sense. But I'd say that we all have to do more together, that we all have to be more professional together and that everyone has to do their part of the job very, very professionally and I think it's the interest of this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7545	Thank you very much. The next replica of the esteemed representative of Vesna Nadj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7546	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Chief State Auditor, I'm interested, you said, so you're delivering your reports to the DORH, the DORH has no obligation to report you as far away as possible with these reports, whether it triggers or does not initiate criminal proceedings, but don't you still care what happens to your reports of illegality and irregularities? It would be good to have in this report some statistical information on how many criminal proceedings are initiated through your reports that you have provided on illegalities and irregularities.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7547	Ma'am, I'm sorry, I'll answer you that way... Well, please don't get it wrong, this isn't... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7548	You can answer the line, you can.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7549	...the last thing I'd do to hurt you. So you need to read our law, you know, and then you'll see what our powers are, we can't write it. So what I've told you is the key and the answer to your question. When a colleague comes, the state's chief attorney here for this pay phone, then you can ask her that. From our report, you can also take out everything on our websites by age and by our reports what we are doing, what we have, which we have given unfavourable opinions, which, etc., etc., etc. And based on that you can ask what you've done on this report, this, etc., you can ask that. We don't have those, these legal powers, or the right to write these things under our law. Thank you very much, I hope you're satisfied with the answer, but the answer is really correct, believe me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7550	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed representative Grozdana Peric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7551	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, Your Honor, Chief State Auditor. Well, here we are, witnessing that in 2019. You have made 75 audits of local and regional and municipal budgets and that is over 18.5 billion kuna of the revenue that these units have made. What is very important is that you also controlled the cost of European funds that came from the European Funds and there were some remarks regarding the income records or the cost of these projects. It is therefore very important that you, as such institutions, give your recommendations in order to manage all these projects as best possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7552	Thank you very much, I agree...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7553	Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7554	...I agree with you, it is, so we write our opinion about it in the report, and now it depends on how it's going to be done what we write. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7555	Thank you. So if I'm not mistaken now on the agenda of this wheel, you're respected, Mr. Clesic, free and you can go to your place. Thank you for your close cooperation. We're moving on to this point. Does the committee reporter want to take the floor? Mrs. Peric? No, I don't. Does the Government's representative want to further explain his opinion? No, I don't. Then in that case, I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns Club, the first one appeared with a respected representative, Zeljko Sacic, who will share his time if I am not mistaken for Mr Hrvoj Zekanovic. Mr. Sacic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7556	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Honorable MPs and MPs. We have a single reading in front of us, a wonderful report on state audit, and it's like always exhaustive, inspirational especially for us, I saw in the assembly we're all talking about almost the same subject, and it's a good job you've detected everything, you've identified the perpetrators of those who are good, especially those who, in your opinion, are impenetrable, who have received a negative assessment. You informed the DORH and now we as well as the Croatian public, as well as all of us MPs and MPs are interested in what the DORH is doing. But unfortunately we know the answer, we don't know that. In fact, we have to change the practice that's been going on here for 15 to 20 years. For my part, when I was head of the criminal police department of the MUP, we had special departments, here is Mr. Zrinasic here I see he was then at the top of the Financial Police, Mr. Kovacic Marijan and you too, Mr. Klešić, chief state auditors. Congratulations to you, you know, you yourself were a participant of an extraordinary team of staff who fought against economic financial crime at the time. We had our own separate teams dealing exclusively with issues of highly sophisticated crime, precisely this kind of white collar crime, which is what we called it, and we couldn't do it there because the graduates of criminals didn't have and today don't have this specific expertise that needs to be an economist, a financier, and we've been winding up in a variety of ways and framed ourselves and then, for a year, educated those people to come to the opportunity to actually discover and read the reports that Mrs. Šima Krasic sent us. The result was 16,000 criminal charges, my dear friends, 16,000 criminal charges we have filed for crime in the conversion and privatisation of this society. About this Croatian little knows that CRIME police have invested very, very much together with the Tax Administration, with the Financial Police, with Customs even with other institutions and we have delivered it all to the DORH, and DORH has done the part as he has done, something has been processed, much of it has been charged but remains in the judiciary. Many of these cases are still in the court, I see some are out of date some are freed. Now, dear friends, what is my obligation is actually being imposed in itself out of responsibility to our legislation, our Constitution, our public that we, as parliamentary representatives, make a certain conclusion or even change the law where our dear chief auditors, Klesic, empower you to seek out after you have delivered your report to the DORH on potentially suspicious actions or irregularities that the DORH has to inform you, and then you all together within a reasonable period of 6 months of what they have done. Because now that we've analyzed the past 10 years of reports every time we put in, and that's what we're going to give each other, we have certain opportunities in clubs, especially the Croatian Sovereign Club, to take a 10-month review report of what you are and how many times you've found out there is something wrong. And what kind of epilogue is that? So let's go before the Croatian public who made the appointment. If the DORH needs it, and I know they need it, they need space, they need professional smart people, it's not enough to be a graduate lawyer and deal with such terrible forms of accounting, financial, etc. They need knowledge to be, we don't have that kind of opportunity. Law schools, even forensics, criminals give it all away. We need to help the DORH train him to read that report, to know how to act, and ultimately to report to you. If we need to increase the number of people, then we'll increase 20, 30%. I am terribly sorry about these 24 main auditors, please don't leave them on the market, these are high-value people to hire Zrinasic. Somehow give them the kind of advisory opportunities they exist, hire them either at the CRIME Police or the DORH, if you know, but we need it in the CRIME Police Department. These people need to be educators, and then I don't even know if the problem is why you're looking for 54, they approved 46 to fill you in. In any case, we can end this exposure with the conclusion that we have to legally commit DORH, that your report is not a dead letter on paper, but to tell us what they did and when they didn't do why they didn't. We need to find the funds, see how many billions of kunas are leaving, and we don't have the opportunity to tie our hands to people who need threads are humanly equipped, neither spatially, nor information-technically, and the best tools are legally legal. There is no state in Europe that has better legal tools to fight organised crime. We have all this and thank God you know when we worked together, we went to America in Europe to Interpol all the things that the best state needs to fight organized crime, America we have. And that's why this club 9 of Slovenia wouldn't have come to you otherwise, for drugs too, finances need special forms of fighting. There's work to be done on the profession, and that's why these people are dry gold and they need to be kept for what it costs to cost. Let him have money, see he's got money and he's stealing, he's got so much to steal. So we need to find a model to keep these people in the interest of the common good. Thank you very much. I'm going to leave these two minutes to Mr. Zekanovic now, but please I have to find him outside. That's where he's How about that?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7557	As far as I'm concerned, your time is running out.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7558	But for a while, it's not working. I'll run. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7559	Thank you. Actually, according to the Rules of Procedure, you should take the floor, but. Dear colleague Zekanovic, please be closer to the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7560	I was outside the door, but there were some problems. The Honorable Vice President of HS. Here's just one small facility, at least make sure there's a seat in front of the door for us who can't get into the assembly so we don't have to stand on our feet. It's not hard, but here's what would be better if we had a chair so we could wait outside the assembly. 28 out of 41 MPs, but here's an epidemiologically obvious two sovereigns can't be at the same time in the assembly if we're a little more contagious. So 15 of them aren't there, 14 as many as they are, but okay. Dear Vice President, you have to influence Mr. Jandrokovic a little bit that this changes because this doesn't make any sense, we can't work like this, I can't wait outside the door to get into the assembly, and half of my fellow unemployed don't have it here. I'm even a little angry.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7561	Dear Mr. Zekanovic, please, just a little bit, I'll ask you nicely, let's just stick to the subject. What you have to say can be said elsewhere, I understand your frustration, but it is not the time please refrain from it and stick to the subject. We're talking about the audit, the report.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7562	Dear Vice President, all right. Here's a quick review. I already said in the replica we have an assessment of model conduct, good and bad, and after that we have nothing and that's what we need to change. I don't know how to change that except for, like, That the DORH is done working. I haven't heard how much you've referred to the DORH, and here's what might be interesting to me, how many of these cases you've concluded to be suspicious and that you need them, whisper... All reports are, uh, and then the DORH estimates whether to act or not. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Okay, so obviously then DORH you have one criterion for something that didn't go through with you, the DORH can say it's okay we just don't have the capacity, there's no point in moving it so it doesn't move. Anyway, I'd like you to be in the State Audit when there are three of you in the office, for example, when you enter the fourth that one doesn't have to get off your computer but to be all three because that way the work of the State Audit will be much more effective and I'd like all state services to have no such measures as we do because then the system will work much better.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7563	Thank you very much for all your advice, Mr. Zekanovic, and for an inventory of MPs in the assembly. And now there will be a Club of Representatives of the SDP with a respected representative, Boris Lalovac. Here you go, Mr. Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7564	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Respected chief state auditor with associates and respected secretary of state. The SDP Club will support the State Audit Office's work report for 2019. This is a comprehensive report on the work of the State Audit Office, a review of the financial audits and performance audits made for 242 entities at national and local level. At national level, financial audits and audits of business coherence were carried out in 25 users of the state budget and 14 unconditional and 11 conditional opinions were expressed. The annual report on the implementation of the National Budget of the Republic of Croatia and individual ministries such as the Ministry of Health, Ministry of Science and Education, the Ministry of Agriculture and Construction and Spatial Planning and the Ministry of State Property received a conditional opinion. The audit identified irregularities and failures in the field of planning and implementation of the plan, accounting operations of asset expenditure and public procurement. It means only a few identified irregularities mainly affecting the ministries or the users of the state budget. For individual budget users, data in the main book and support books are not identical, and then individual budget users did not follow the instructions for planning and accounting audit of income and expenditure from eu funds and revenue and expenditure, as well as the transfer of eu funds to other users were incorrectly recorded. On the basis of the rules of public calls, budgetary users shall finance the implementation of certain programmes for associations. Some asset providers did not carry out field checks but only control the use of funds by means of documentation and reports delivered. No records have been drawn up on the control carried out. Then, part of the goods and services was obtained without the prescribed procurement procedures, and in certain cases, in the case of simple procurement, the procedures prescribed by internal acts are not applied. Why am I saying this here? So in front of us now, and why was my question this morning as we progressed as a country, we have given and we are better than the last 10, 15 years when the State Audit Office is strengthened, when all institutions are strengthened because by entering and being an equal player on the European market is actually strengthening institutions not only to strengthen USKOK institutions, DORH, all others, PNUSKK, the State Audit Office, OLAF, etc., means strengthening institutions so that they can make good use of EU funds. So now it's a period ahead of us and it's a risk to Croatia. It is a risk for Croatia, not individual ones, to process all individual regulations, but what is before us now is that 22.23 billion euros are ahead of Croatia to finance the economy, to finance the state, to finance entrepreneurship. And when someone from Europe actually sees what is happening in Croatia and actually looks at this report of the State Audit Office, they will simply say ok, wait a minute, do you meet all the criteria, the conditions that these 23 billion euros in the next 7 years will be properly spent or in accordance with the regulations and laws and therefore I have asked the introduction of the main state auditor, how Croatia is progressing in the last 10 years and how much I have actually managed to understand, Croatia is progressing, and that is the same message, because if we ourselves are going to tell ourselves every day that we are not good, that we are really all what institutions are, then it is a big problem in the functioning of the entire system and then we have a serious problem of using EU funds. I think it is one of the key problems for the government and that it strengthens these institutions, that everything is very quickly processed and that we can use the entire EU envelope because the only sources and most important sources of income come to us from Europe for the next seven-year period, and in this report here, the State Audit Office is talking about how the funds and certain budget users did not follow the instructions on the recording of these EU funds, on the transfer of these EU funds, etc., and that is why it is an appeal to the Government and to all institutions to actually be teamed up, to fix everything that they need to fix and in fact that Croatia and next year, as the State Auditor said, has made some progress and that we are actually starting to use the full envelope of EU funds. When you see state users using Eu resources, then when you look at what the local unit reports are, then it's still, the perception is that it's even worse. Of the 75 local units, it means 20 counties, the city of Zagreb, 28 towns and 26 municipalities, 38 unconditional and 35 conditional solutions were given, one unfavourable opinion, and it is interesting that 3 of the largest cities, Zagreb, Split and Rijeka have conditional opinions, and the worst situation in all municipalities, of 20, of them 7 only has unconditional opinion and 19 has conditionality. When you look again at what the State Audit Office actually found in these municipalities, then they actually look at some identified irregularities, meaning what the State Office states, certain dedicated revenues are not spent on prescribed purposes but on other budgetary needs, most often this relates to revenues from municipal contribution, municipal compensation, monumental rents and the lease and sale of agricultural land owned by the state. Afterwards business premises were leased without a public call or tender or without the obligation to pay the rent. For some business premises the lease contracts have expired and no new contracts have been implemented with the tenants, although the tenants continue to use those premises. The exercise of municipal activities is then directly entrusted to legal and natural persons without the tender procedure. Some local units have not set out the conditions and criteria for the award of grants for the selection of the programme or the project have not been implemented in accordance with the public tender, and individual local units have demonstrated significant commitments and total income shortages and receipts and the plan for the settlement of commitments and coverage of income shortages and receipts have not been adopted. When we look at how strong our institutional local administration together with the counties are, we actually see that they are in even worse shape than the level of users of the state budget and in this context means they are even worse prepared for the use of EU funds. If we see how in this part of COVID it actually hit us that very quickly local units can be left without a significant share of income, especially from income tax revenues, you see how fast it is, this year I don't know if it's going to be next, for example. profit tax, etc., that the only sources of funds for both the state and the local unit in the coming periods will actually be EU funds and institutionally, we talk all the time because the State Audit Office does not pursue any individual, they worry about the system, they worry about the system that the entire system, all those who use funds, are making progress and now the perception of us is whether we are progressing quickly, slowly, whether we can do better today, whether we here on the legislative side still need to improve something, make a certain contribution or change certain legal frameworks to actually not only the State Office for Auditing but all these institutions, strengthened them to actually do better business or use these EU funds. It will be a big problem if, and I believe that the European Commission is also reading this report from the State Audit Office that, after a certain period of time, if certain issues arise and the use of EU funds, the Republic of Croatia will lose. That's the problem that we have to look at here and the picture of the Republic of Croatia in the whole of this process. In any case, today there were speeches from colleagues that the State Audit Office also carried out a financial audit of 45 political parties and 6 independent representatives covering financial reports and business reports for 2018 and a verification was carried out, annual reports to which the mandates were under way and to carry out financial reports of political parties and independent representatives. In addition, a financial report for 43 outside the parliamentary political party has been made, and what is important is that in this one sea, the mistrust of Croatian citizens against all the institutions of the political party has led to their finances. That was already here today's speech. If there are certain irregularities, these irregularities should be corrected, if any, whether they are accounting irregularities. But when you look at the political parties today, at least according to the State Office's review report, they stand better than the state, they stand better than the institutions, so that's where certain shifts have been made. So yet certain recommendations and what has been said today have been accepted by the political parties and I see no reason why all these institutions and state institutions and institutions at the local level accept the recommendations of the State Audit Office and that we have a better report next time. Thanks again. The SDP club will accept this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7565	Thank you very much, Mr. Lalovec. On behalf of the Green-Left Block Representatives Club, Honorable representative Sandra Bencic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7566	I thank you and thank you again for presenting this report. What we can unquestionably conclude from this report is that in a large part of the entities that have been subject to the audit have spent their budgets irresponsibly and incorrectly. For example, it is particularly worrying that public institutions operating national parks and nature parks, although they had financial resources, did not invest those funds in the protection, maintenance and conservation of protected areas, which of course indicates that nature parks are managed as a consumer tourist resource that serves exclusively to move profits instead of investing where to invest, which is the protection of nature and areas that are protected. Instead of investing in their primary function, these public institutions approved, for example, donations to humanitarian organisations, sports companies, associations to organise different events without established criteria, without standards, without procedures, without carrying out public tenders for the award of these funds. And what does that tell us? It tells us about one scheme or part of the entire scheme how the clienttelist network in Croatia actually works. Why? Who sets up and who actually chooses the leaders of these public institutions? Of course. Who are these, who are the leaders of these sports organisations and very often humanitarian organisations at the local level that receive these funds without competition? It's also known. And the average Croatian family cannot afford 4 tickets for one of the national parks because it costs them how much food they cost in a week, if not more. Why can't he? Because the ATM has to be filled to drain funds from that ATM to local powers that have been re-set on principle is known. We're particularly concerned about the results of the audit for the port administrations. So the port administrations didn't first come up with the annual concession plan. I wonder who, will answer, will answer the concession law? Therefore, they do not adopt a concession plan and give concessions for the economic use of the port area and conclude concession contracts and that, they award those concessions on request without a prior decision of the Governing Council, do not monitor the work, nor do they carry out the plan and programme of the concessionagents, nor do they report to the Governing Council. The State Audit Office says, therefore, that this whole area of commitment and collection of revenues from ports, fees and fees, and concession fees should be made clearer and more precise. We had this opportunity last week when we talked about, oh, the problem of collecting concessions, about Croatia getting into the budget extremely little funds given the wealth of public resources and public goods it provides, you did not want to accept any amendments. Now, here you have the State Audit report again telling you that we're losing money because we haven't properly regulated that area. I wonder how many now, how many people who are headed by the boards of directors and who are headed by the port administrations, how many will really get fired because they don't bring in the basic documents that the law requires them to pass and do not follow the concession law procedure, or the Law on concessions on the maritime good? Furthermore, concessions on highways. So, for two concessions of the Zagreb-Macelj highway and the Istrian Ipsilon highway, what has been established? First, it was found that there was no documentation in the ministry on the basis of which the concession was given. I mean, I have to wonder how that's possible. How is it possible that there are no grounds on which the concession was even carried out? So there's no paperwork first. I'm asking again, will anyone in the departments answer for that? Secondly, the State Office of the State Audit tells you that it is a mistake for the state to take the entire risk, the main risk of the project and highways Zagreb-Macelj and the Istrian Ipsion, which is the fall in revenues from traffic. And now, maybe, I don't know, in 2004, it seemed like funny, because what we have is tourism, tourists go, so there's gonna be traffic. We have the same clause in the concession agreement for the airport. What are we going to do with the 2021 budget, how much money will we have to cash out to the concessionaries because of the fall in traffic on the Zagreb-Macelj highway, the Istrian Ipsilon and the Zagreb airport? How much money is that? And you're saying on the other hand that we need to cut some costs, that for example, we need to strengthen the competitiveness of the economy on the back of the workers you're going to change the Labour Act, and that you're going to make it even easier to fire workers, while on the other hand, the money that these entrepreneurs should take to get through these bad contracts to individual, carefully selected concessionaries, chosen by principle, is known. I would also like to stress that, apart from giving these money in such contracts by hand and hat, we talked here last week about the importance of the Assembly being able to move towards changes to the concession law on the basis of a determined breach of the economic interest of the Republic of Croatia. You claimed we shouldn't put economic interest in that article of the law. You said we could do it anyway, I'll test it now. I will test whether we can, on the basis of the findings of the Office of State Audit, access to the change of concession contracts of all who contain the clause where the Republic of Croatia, or the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, have taken the risk of a fall in traffic. So, we are at risk, and we are going to see whether we should add that economic interest to the law or not, and whether the ruling majority here will allow us to change the apparent harmful contracts paid by citizens, craftsmen, self-employed entrepreneurs in this Croatia from our own pocket because we are missing regulation of what is regulated by the sea. Moreover, the tax on all the problems we have with poverty in Croatia, besides the fact that we are one of the countries with the highest risk of poverty in the EU, which strategy do we not implement? We don't implement the strategy against poverty because of all the 140 we have, we probably don't need it. So of the 10 measures, one was effectively implemented. One. I mean, the strategy's already coming out this year, if I'm not mistaken, 2020. One was implemented by 2018, and no plan and programme has been drawn up for 2018, and I am not talking about how to finance the implementation of the measure in this strategy. The implementation of measures in the anti-poverty strategy was key to achieving those 3 Europe 2020 targets, one of which was an issue of inclusiveness, i.e. Europe involving, or poverty reduction, because the plan was to reduce poverty at EU level by a minimum of 20 million people. How much did we contribute to that? Nothing. Zero. So we have a state audit report that confirms it. What is the question of who will bear political responsibility for it? Who will bear the political responsibility that no plans have been put in place for the implementation of this strategy? Who will bear the business responsibility, so responsibility from the civil servants who should have worked on it, who have not worked and will anyone? What we're all trying to emphasize here is that when we look at all of these numbers, when we look at all of them, we have to ask ourselves how much it cost us. I would be particularly interested to see the data, for example, on the basis of these harmful concession agreements on the Zagreb-Macelj highway and the Istrian Ipsion. What is the potential loss of the state budget for 2021 if the concessionaries are going to call on that clause and ask us to pay for their decline in traffic? I am interested in each of the items that have been identified as, whether they are not in accordance with the law, whether they are irregularities, I am interested in how objective the damage is and how far the gain of the Republic of Croatia has escaped in terms of the budget. Because if we were to comb, let's say, five annual audit results and add up the profits and objective damage, I'll bet we get the amount that we could compensate for the huge losses we have, for example within the Covid crisis. All because of the failure to regulate and all because of the neglect, even when you have good objections by the opposition, which is to be neglected to fail to protect [[Intruder: Time.]] public interest and the interest of citizens [[/Intruder: Time. Thank you very much.]] RH. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7567	I need to interrupt your debate. Thank you. Next on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club is Honorable Representative Anton Kleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7568	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, dear colleagues from the state audit, Mr. Klesic. Here, at first, I would like to thank you really for this report that you have received really commendation and for which I can say from this place that you have confirmed your independence, so that fundamental feature of yours, I would say so, where you have impartially reported everything you have in your audits. It's extremely important for the Croatian public and it's extremely important for this High House, that we have in perception, that everything you wrote, that you wrote professionally, that you wrote without prejudice and that you delivered as a document to us to discuss how... all together to improve the state of institutions in the Republic of Croatia and I really thank you for that. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You've also heard of an opposition colleague, when they praise you, then you can really be proud of your work. We will also contribute to commending you and really encouraging you in some way to continue to do quality work and that all institutions that follow your reports should act to encourage them to act independently and professionally in order to really improve the situation in our country. We are young democracies, developing countries, and we should look at this way, that we are not, that it is not just this crime, as some like to say, but that there is an educational issue where and with these recommendations, we must all face, and leaders must therefore face at all levels of the state, in public enterprises, to improve the work of their institutions and to have more effective public and public money. So we can say that here, this year we got a report for 2019, it's covered if I'm not mistaken, if I read it correctly, 418 audits and you've covered about 1100 entities at the state and local level. The financial audits of the state budget and all its users, local units, their users, companies, national parks, nature parks, non-profit organisations, port administrations, student centres, sports associations and political parties are therefore covered. Well, here, it's important to say that really in this big business, you've done a really good review and a good cut of everything you've done, and I'd like to join the SDP evaluation that the state is still going forward, that your remarks are being more respected, your instructions are being followed, and I'd say that regardless of the shortcomings you've found in your reports, that your influence and your recommendations are getting stronger and stronger, and it's good to take them seriously, so seriously respect the leaders of the local, state and public companies of this recommendation and to correct their business from year to year. This makes us all happy together and here, I appeal to those who are acting in a duty and are covered by your audit, to really commit themselves seriously to these observations and to the next kind of review and you said definitely that one of the criteria for the future audit is that you have to check what you did in the previous audit, to take seriously the job and to correct the mistakes that you found and which you warned about. In addition, performance audits have been carried out to cover all these current topics such as the revision of the centralised wage accounting, the concession agreements of highways which have been mentioned here and the measures and activities to mitigate poverty in the Republic of Croatia. Now that you're working, here I'm going to get a little bit on the Istrian Ipsylon, my colleague Bencic said something about it, so when you're doing this audit, you're here at the end. The context of the entire concession is somewhere in '95. Mr. Was, therefore, that context and today's state of mind, what you've seen is quite different from two positions. So, from the beginning when we were in '95. Mr. practically at the end of the war for the independence of the Republic of Croatia, when absolutely no one wanted to come to invest in the Republic of Croatia because we were practically a war zone, began to build the Istrian Ipsion, I can tell you that it brought extremely large benefits for the economy in Istria and when it was in Istria then and in the Republic, where we saw these days in this COVID crisis that they were doing business two, three counties which are a car destination, which are well connected by highways in the Republic and which have brought out that so I can say all this burden of demanding tourist season, that they should not, absolutely not have such results in this whole story, are a normal thing to respect absolutely your remarks that you delivered, so what I have said now is not diminishing this finding, however, that all your remarks should be taken into account, so that they are able to see these irregularities in such a way that you can be able to make sure that all the best possible and that they are true of what they are right now that they are true, and that they are true, and that they are true, and that they are true, as they are, as they are, as they are, and that they are, and that they are, and that they are, as they are, and that they are, as they are, and that they are going to be, as to be, as well. So, in this definitely decisions that were made to do the Istrian Ipsion and that the Zagreb-Macelj highways are the right decisions, and here they are, they are now in this crisis that they were definitely. It should also be said that from the utmost importance should be what the State Auditor and established by carrying out the audit of the Ministry and public enterprises to local units, non-profit organisations to political parties to make these things clear to all together in the next report that you have one power and that you can definitely present that one, I would say, one weight for the greater regulation of the Republic of Croatia in the next period. It should also be pointed out that the Law on the State Audit Office has also changed, we adopted it last year and, among other things, for the first time prescribed sanctions for those entities and their leaders who do not act on the orders and recommendations of the State auditors. This is hopefully a mechanism that will contribute to making audit entities take seriously what the state auditors are saying and that they should carry out or act on their orders because, contrary to the law, sanctions are prescribed for entities from 20 to 50,000 kn, for leaders of 2 to 20,000 kuna, these are really low penalties, but here is better than we had up to a year ago. In this pressure, they will certainly play their important role as the DORH. I would also like to point out that only 240 auditors are doing this whole job, what we have now said, that they have new tasks that have been put into office and that the main state auditor has pointed out to us in terms of hiring new employees, and it is definitely necessary to strengthen human and above all financially. In any case, the HDZ Representatives' Club will fully support this report and I thank again for the dedicated work in the entire State Audit Office of the Republic of Croatia. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7569	Thank you. The next debate on the State Audit Office's work for 2019 will be attended by a respected representative, Zvonimir Troskot, on behalf of the Association of Representatives of the Bridges of Independent Lists. Here you go, Mr. Troscott.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7570	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, distinguished MPs and MPs. Dear Mr. Chief Auditor, associates and respected citizens of the Republic of Croatia who follow us through the screen. As far as the Bridge Club is concerned, we will support the State Audit report of 2019 and I would like to thank you once again for your efforts and work. This support is only an additional confirmation of the Bridge Club to the State Audit Office which we voted on on the Finance Committee. Regarding this report, I would just like to focus on two concession contracts for financing and building the Macelj highway and the Istrian Ipsilon and to express some of the things that we have seen that are essential for the economic and general financial investment climate in the Republic of Croatia, but also for co-existence in general. The main thing we noticed in these reports is that concessionaries have not taken any operational risk in 20 years and no serious responsibility for the operation of these roads. These roads could have been built without going one car, and the Republic of Croatia would pay high amounts of money based on these unfavourable contracts, and what it actually pays today. Regarding the Macelj highway, so the first point we've seen is that the State Audit thinks the concession fee may never be charged. What's this about? We see that one irregular payment of the concession fee that was paid last in 2011 amounted to €2.5 million, but the latest projections say that the concession fee should be an additional € 107 million. If we take into account that credits from banks are first charged, then certain loans for traffic reduction fees we see that there is a great risk that by 2032 as long as the concession is not due, the state budget will not receive its own money under the contract. Point 2, a significant part of the project is financed from state subsidies, which means that so far state subsidies have been paid to VAT amounting to 575 million kuna, and the ministry has never established before the conclusion of the contract itself, nor has it planned for the amount of subsidies under that contract to be. According to some projections given by the State Audit Office by the end of the concession agreement, the state budget should be reduced by an additional billion kuna. We see a weak fee charge and a rapid payment of subsidies and what is concerned about it is that this one billion kuna that is listed in the State Audit report is exactly something that will reduce the financial envelope from the EU if we succeed in withdrawing that money. Under number 3, there were no public tenders at the time of the decision on the award of the concession, and there was a problem because it was then the applicable Competition Act of 1992, which was also reported by the State Audit Office. Therefore, there was neither a public gathering of offers nor a public tender leading to a question and a potentially anti-zonal action because not all items were completed. Under number four, the company is obliged to deliver documents as a basis and a reckoning for the fee. What is true is that the ministry implements or corrects and checks the account of that fee, however, there are no checks on the bases on which such a high amount of compensation is calculated, in this case we are talking about 195 million kuna. Furthermore, for unknown reasons, the company has changed the depreciation rate to the concession account, the depreciation account affects the profit and loss account, and the profit and loss account also affects the calculation of the compensation which then charges the budget, and these things have not been paid attention either. There is no documentation related to the Istrian Ipsilon either. Furthermore, no concession fee has been paid since 1995, and then the question arises whether these may be some contexts that we should also consider the state of war? Should we then allow all concessionaries such a single game that they should not pay their concession fees at all, as is visible from the Istrian Ipsilon and the Zagreb-Macelj highway. The other thing that's also questionable for some unknown reason is that this concessionary doesn't have to pay a profit tax at all. Why? Three states, or state budget, have made an advance of 114 million kuna, which the concessionary does not have to repay. Why? At the end of the day, we also have something called a financial contribution and we would like to point out to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia that the Croatian government is free of charge to the Istrian Ipsion and has so far paid 3.5 billion kuna, no further charges for concessions on this work, no profit tax and no advances that have already reached 114 million kuna are charged. In the same analysis and some sum of this report, the question arises why these financial benefits for projects that have neither a financial base nor a public tender has been made and neither the Public Procurement Act relating to 3 offers is respected, which actually unnecessarily puts one impression of mysticism on the selection of suppliers. The freeway Macelj and the Istrian Ipsion did not actually put blame on anyone in this legislative body because they represent potential affairs such as Janaf and of national interest is that these affairs do not happen and so the question today was addressed to the main state auditor what is it that we as a legislative body can do, gave it perhaps more pressure on the DORH which is the next instance once these financial results are handed over to prevent such public affairs and that it is simply of national interest that, that such things do not happen. And why does it matter? It's important for our internal relations. This is important for our, our economic climate, the investments that foreign entrepreneurs from abroad, the EU, the US, Canada and other developed countries and such things certainly bypass Croatia in the short and long term. Furthermore, there are, there is a financial envelope that, which is potentially coming to us, and it would be a shame that this money that we received from the EU that we have to pay for these gaps in the budget for projects like this where we have not been thought about, and on the other hand, this money may not be given in the education of our young people, the opening of new businesses, the opening of kindergartens, schools and all that is so much needed for the development of society. And in that sense, in that sense, such an affair that does not happen is necessary and necessary for our co-existence in general. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7571	Thank you. In your presentation, you just used a syntagmic stronger pressure on the DORH, it wouldn't be good if one of us could put pressure on the DORH, I think some things are happening because of the pressures that are totally illegal. Next on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Party with the name and name, Smart and GLAS, respected representative Dalia Oreskovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7572	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues. So I think the State Audit Office is one of the perhaps most significant state bodies whose work could and should enable an effective fight against corruption. But we're far from that goal and we'll stay away unless we can access it, redefine powers, tasks, even the results of this body's work. This report is one in a row, very similar to all reports previously submitted. It is very dry, it sums up the financial data on a few of those budget users who were subject to supervision in a given year. Because of citizens who are watching this, and do not know how the system works, it is necessary to stress, therefore, only some, not all, are covered every year. In other words, the verification system isn't working. The State Audit Office has no capacity, no tools for systematic, coordinated, continuous verification. As it is, the verification done by the State Audit Office was targeted in the system as selective and that is problem number one. Problem number two is, she's a material failure. Here, let me just point to some key elements. What is the objective according to what the State’s Chief Auditor himself states in this report? It says that the objective of determining whether financial reports are drawn up in accordance with the regulations, and then at the same time saying that those users who have identified certain irregularities are very often involved in the fact that we have contradictions in the legislation itself, and that then recommendations are made when the established factual situation cannot be linked to the provision of any specific regulation or internal act of any particular state body, and then the State audit estimates that the implementation of the recommendation made by the State Office would have a positive effect on increasing the transparency of business. Then the state office determines the inconsistency or inequality of the law and that is one of the reasons why different budget users act differently from year to year we see similar sentences in the State Audit Office reports. But HS doesn't do anything about it. And here's what else HS doesn't care about. It's like this on the page. 13, certain budget beneficiaries, other than state budget funds, also make significant own revenues. Now, the departments responsible for these budgetary users are obliged to monitor the achievement and use of these own revenues and to adopt the Regulation for that purpose. But where's the problem? The problem is that most of the ministry did not even adopt a Regulation setting out the criteria and means of using its own and other incomes which were not established for its purpose. The State Audit Office says that the decision on how to use these own revenues should not be fully left to budgetary users themselves. And now we're looking for sources of corruption. Well, here it is, it's a source of corruption that absolutely no one controls. I'll draw attention to another detail, on the page. 15, it's said that there are budgetary users of the state budget we call so-called. Third level users, which are institutions in health care, museums, theatres and other institutions in culture national parks and nature parks, courts, prisons, centres for social care, universities, colleges, higher schools, universities, public institutes, etc. And now pay attention, because of the large number of said budget beneficiaries, their financial plans are not shown in the state budget individually per user but within the framework of the joint budget chapters in the budget of the competent ministry. And the Ministry of Finance has no data on individual financial plans and the implementation of these financial plans included in the common budget heads. Those data shall be made available by the competent ministry involved in the development and coordination of their financial plans. In other words, the black hole through which all the corruption in this country is hidden obviously someone wants to hide. Also, a small detail on page 17, the revision was also found that in the business books, you can imagine, no specific property was recorded in the business books of certain entities. It's about state property, public property, most of the time it's about stakes in companies and certain claims, and some of the users of the business books' budget have recorded claims that are non-refundable, so if you want to find a clue and the consequences of the corruption that's already happened, here, that's the source to start from. I want to draw attention that we can't read these reports from year to year, adopt them, not do anything. It is the responsibility and guilt of all the convocations of the Croatian Parliament so far. Let's not let this Parliament make such an unforgivable mistake. I also want to point out that one of the problems is that citizens experience corruption abstractally and when something is alienated from the public budget, especially when it comes to the amount of several million, several hundred million, several billion, it is very difficult for citizens to connect it with something that has been taken from their pockets. And that's exactly what this is all about, so every kuna that has been spent unintendedly, which has been spent wrongly, not to say that for the purpose of budget spending, no one has ever answered, is taking away a quality public service where citizens would have the right. If all these millions and billions had not spent themselves in someone's private pockets, but had gone into quality health care, schools, hospitals, whatever the public sector is doing, we would be a very prosperous country today. And how do you find a way out? So I don't doubt that in the State Audit Office, honest, honorable, conscious and hardworking people work, but the framework is such that with such a structure and with such powers, corruption is actually well-guarded and well-protected. That's why I stand for one more powerful, much more powerful state audit than the one we have now. A state audit that other state bodies, such as interested citizens and the public, would assist in their work. There is a lot of talk about transparency in this House, but transparency obviously does not or at least does not intend to introduce it. And it's very simple. Simply introduce full fiscal transparency of all public budget users. When I tell everyone, I mean everyone, even those I just counted, so-called. third level user. Everything paid for by public money should be made available to all citizens of the Republic of Croatia in a single transparent format. On one side of the payment, on one side of the payment. It's transparency, not what Mr. Hrebak is talking about. There is a greater danger that corruption will occur in state bodies that no one currently has on radar, such as various agencies, which have large financial amounts, but in a small municipality, so full fiscal transparency should also be the main topic of the anti-corruption strategy that I have already talked about several times in this House. Therefore, if we do not approach changing the system from the ground up, including the powers and tasks of the competent state authorities, we will simply generate the same problems we are talking about today. In the event that an affair is discovered that takes 3 days of light stage and the interest of the media, and then everything falls into oblivion and the state acts corruptly as it has worked so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7573	Thank you very much. Next on behalf of the House Movement Representatives Club, respected representative Ruzica Vukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7574	Thank you, esteemed vice president of HS, and respected to the state's chief auditor with co-workers. Therefore, the State Audit Office was established by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia as the highest audit institution of the Republic of Croatia. It shall carry out audits of the financial reports and operations of the entities of the audit established by law, verify the compliance of their operations with the relevant regulations, assess the economic, efficiency and purpose of the management of public funds and give tasks and recommendations in order to remove irregularities in the improvement of business. In the obligation to inform HS and other stakeholders of their work. In the report, we can read that the work of the State Audit Office is aimed at good governance in the public sector, transparency, public responsibility and action in the interests of citizens. The values that the office has drawn up are the starting points or guidelines which determine the conduct of the State Audit Office and their employees, which relate to independence, independence, integrity and accountability and reliability in the work of the State Office for Auditing and Professionality, Responsibility, Unbiasedness, Consciousness and Ethics, and teamwork of employees. At the Department of Homeland Movement, we checked to see if the State Audit Office had succeeded in what they were up to. The most important segment of this report refers to concession contracts and highways. It's a disaster. The Republic of Croatia does not have contracts for concessions of its own highways. The Zagreb-Macelj highway audit has not actually been carried out, it gives us no figures or concrete indicators, and we strongly believe that this part of the report should be completely rejected. And for the Istrian Isilon report, it shows that the Republic of Croatia is very likely to be in major financial losses, so the question arises whether from these concessions the Republic of Croatia has any benefit or just those losses? So let's take the turn. So, the Istrian Ipsion, the contract was concluded on a period of '95. By 2019, the Republic of Croatia had committed itself to buying land on the highway route, moving all the municipal infrastructure, financing the development of an idea project, producing local permits, building 12 km of one wheel, leaving to manage the already existing 48.2 km of shares, giving to the management of the Učka tunnel. The concessionaire, meanwhile, built another 96km with two stakes and had to build a total of 144km under the contract. The remaining 100 miles is only with one stake. The concessionaire invested a total of $4.5 billion and covered the money with loans paid out of the financial contribution. It's interesting what the word financial contribution means. It is said that by the end of 2018, this contribution to the state budget of the Republic of Croatia and that it amounted to an incredible 3.5 billion kuna as if the last 10 years had been 57% of the source of the concessionaires, I believe that I believe concessionaires' income. The question arises, if we gave all of the above, so Učka tunnel, 12 km of housing, bought the land, moved all the municipal infrastructure on our cost, and thus still made 3.5 billion contributions from the total 4.5 billion deposited by the concessionary, the question arises why did we give that highway in the concession at all and what benefit the Republic of Croatia from that concession if that contribution amounted to 57% of the concessionaires' walk, and on top of that, there are also tolls paid by citizens, why did the Republic not manage that highway alone? But that's not all. And a financial layman like me clearly sees the remaining one billion that the concessionaire was supposed to invest, he returns to the rest of the amounts, by revenue from the toll we all understand, then the based capital of the companies of the concessionaires, the advance of the Republic of Croatia of 14 million kuna, so we also gave them more than the 3.5 billion mentioned above. So that's over 3.6 billion. I note that this amount is non-refundable and the concessionary has no obligation to return it. So the concessionaire got to manage everything that had already been built before and a total of more than 3.6 billion kunas of 4.5 invested in 10 years, in other words the Republic of Croatia covered 80% of all investments during the concession contract. In addition, the Republic of Croatia covers the risk of toll collection, i.e. It covered a concessionary of shortages of scheduled tolls. My question is how much did we pay the concessionaire for this risk because that response does not give public insight and that amount should be added to the amount of 3.6 billion kuna or 80% of the investments that the Republic of Croatia has invested out of 4.5 billion, not counting the value of everything previously built to manage? It is said that after 2019, the risk of demand was partly transferred to the concessionaire but the question arises why is it even transferred to the concessionaire if the concession agreement ceases in 2019? Why hasn't the Republic of Croatia taken over the highway itself since 2019? My question is, who's running the Istrian Ipsilon in 2012 anyway? Did this same concessionary continue to manage everything he didn't build himself and everything that was built by the Republic of Croatia as a minimum of 80%? When the Ucka tunnel is added and the rest is listed, it probably exceeds 90% of the value. Therefore, if the Republic of Croatia has so far borne 100% of the risk of highway operations that is built on its own by a minimum of 80% without counting the tunnel and the rest, the question is, how much of the risk is it, and what are we still paying someone who has invested less than 20% in the infrastructure in question? The report also mentions a particularly strange statement on the page. 82 reports, which is that the ministry does not possess the documents on the basis of which the concession was awarded. I don't know how you respected colleagues and fellow MPs, I don't even know how all the Croatian public who follows us through the media but we at the House Movement Club are appalled by the fact that in the Ministry of Transport, the sea and infrastructure have actually lost the documentation on the basis of which it was assigned and the concession is carried out on Croatian highways, specifically here on the Istrian Ipsion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7575	Thank you, ma'am. Wolfie. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we have exhausted the debates on behalf of the clubs. The following are individual debates, according to my knowledge there are 15 of them, and we will go in a row, the first in an individual debate is attended by a respected representative, Miro Bulj, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7576	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, the state auditor with his associates. In front of us, respected citizens, who follow the findings of the State Audit report, I could say what I have said here in the past term, that what the Office of State Audit has done, has done a huge job in accordance with their capacities, I don't know, is the same question whether to strengthen the office with human resources, material and I think that this office should have a much greater importance and this debate not only to be a story because we simply see it, here it is mentioned, highways are mentioned by mentioning the road that the Istrian Ipslon is invested in, which is 5 billion kuna, something less where the ministry of Oleg Butkovica lost the concession documentation, which is amazing, that he lost the concession, probably left it in the club, in Slovenia 9 because apparently how much he likes to play cards, that he will be taken away, so probably which escort lady has wrongly paid back for our money, so she took that he took away that document to Belgrade, where it's all the problem, and it's sad. When we talk about this revision, I also said in the beginning that all the work that the audit is making probably, there's information from the audience, it sends to the competent authorities, all irregularities, illegalities, so I'd ask you to send this to the Ministry of Investment of 5 billion Euros, excuse me, 5 billion kuna, that there's no concession agreement until the concessionary still works on which contract bases no one lives. I'd just like to mention something else here. Local self-government, here we have the i.e. regional local self-government, it's more than 50% essentially the 75 that this audit has done, 35 we have a conditional report, and 2 we have means unfavourable. It's just saying how local self-government works, and about state-owned companies working is enough to talk about this Janaf case. Public procurement is a story of self and encouragement, here I see no incentive, incentives are interesting to you is once the Minister of Agriculture said that the incentives in agriculture give everything transparent and clear. However, I don't know if you have the tools to check if someone takes for cows by the throat, someone who receives for cattle does have that cattle at all, and maybe give them a test of what a cow looks like if they know what they're receiving incentivising, because I literally don't see cows anywhere, and huge money is given through incentives, never more incentives, so that it would be good if you have human resources to check these incentives where billions go to the pockets of who knows who, and they don't go to our cattlemen, farmers and those who would tribale to build Croatia self-sufficient, not Croatia who will be, means dependent on import lobbys, interest groups, so that the ministry is interesting. I asked you about Janaf, you said in 2015, in 2014, you audited that there were a lot of irregularities. I don't know. Did you send that to the state's attorney's office? Is it? Do you have any answers? We see that the only answer was that they continued to steal even more and steal it on the bags, even the counters got it. So, I expect you to do a review this year, even though it's already being audited, is that, this investigation is based on 2018. ... Public, e, e, after your audit essentially [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] Yeah, '19. And the '20s. [[Intruder: '19. and '20]] So, in all the companies we have, it means public companies, institutions, public procurement is being set up. Public procurement is the main cause of the destruction of competition is we see an example of how a colleague of Bacic mentioned some parties who had been in the pre-election, these reports after the election that with 100 kuna, 200 had no account, and I can mention to him here already if he talks about local self-governments, here let him look with political parties, just let him look at Virovitica, what opinion of the town Virovitica di HDZ manages, they don't know about 17 million kunas where they're gone. I mean, so much for transparency and functioning. There's also a respected mayor of the island, the mayor or mayor so he doesn't hurt him, so right to information, people iron cards, they can't possibly get people in these municipalities right to information where that money is, whether it goes transparently. So we're all required here to publicly and transparently show our money, and mostly public companies. And I urge you once again to file a report if you may request How many steps have they taken... [[Intruder: Time]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] irregularities in the report. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[Thank you very much, thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7577	Stay, we have, we have one replica, stay. I'm sorry you're late, ma'am. Dark-Taritash. ... Excuse me? ... [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] You waved your hand, and you didn't use a plate, I'm sorry, here's the Rules of Procedure that won't let us wave your hand. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] Replicated representative Katarina Peovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7578	Thank you. Here, I'd like to ask my colleague Miri one question hoping to cross over to my side very soon. What you asked as a question means why, even though it was carried out, we didn't have any of it in Janaf? I figured it out, didn't I? We had a review, you asked, the result is nothing more or less. That's how it's gonna be anyway, that's how it's gonna be in these audits, that's pretty clear to all of us, but why? Because it's structural, systemic corruption where there can sometimes be no concrete corruption, it's that in these concessions, as we can see, there's nothing corrupt. So there's a contract, the contract is completely harmful to the social majority, there's nothing corrupt about it, but it's still corruption.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7579	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica is to see if Representative Bulj will move to the side of MP Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7580	Thank you very much, Vice President. Apparently your agreement with your colleague... from the presidential campaign came to this assembly, so by the way, you're giving me a little lecture, but it doesn't matter. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] The absolute concessions in Croatia operate mainly on the maritime good, mainly as regards the assignment of jobs, public procurement, destroying competition and people who would simply have to have either a party card or a million and 900 thousand kuna to be able to pay our meanings to the respected heads of companies and therefore I expect the laws to change into, not laws, in fact we have good laws and everything is legal, and implementation is zero. There's an absolute robbery in the process, and I can confirm that, for example. on the maritime goods of the Golden War, or you have, say, Brodosplit, millions, billions were given for use, they weren't spent on purpose, the audit warned it, but nothing was done, and the ships weren't built. The audit took over, but the other bodies didn't take over, so the audit It works, and institutions don't do anything. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7581	Thank you very much, please wear a mask. Thank you very much. Next individual debate. Thank you very much, Mr. Bull. Honorable representative of Martina Grman Kizivat, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7582	I would like to thank Vice-President HS, the distinguished chief state auditors with their associates, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. To begin this debate, I must commend your work. I'm an auditor myself, so I know how much work and effort it takes to do an audit. I must admit the impressive number of audits carried out in your jurisdiction. It is impressive and courageous, given that some of your audits were eagerly awaited and followed. What I would refer to today is something that literally left me without a word on the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You have 370 jobs in your system. On the day of 31.12.2019, 291 jobs were filled. The job openings relate mostly to authorised state auditors of 21.4%. It's a shame that today in the 21st century in a country that is cramping corruption and crime where we have a scandal each week one, we have to point to the fact that people who may be among the first to see irregularities have embarrassingly low wages. If we take the fact that a college graduate is employed in the Office of State Audit, he comes to the workplace of the Assistant State Auditor and comes to pay about 5,5500 kuna. In order for the same person to get a salary increase, he has to meet several criteria, so let's get on with it. In order to obtain a certificate from an authorised national auditor, it must have a 5-year term of employment, of which 3 years of work in the audit but not all, it must pass several exams. An examination of accounting and financial reporting, audit and audit law for auditors. Every exam must have a minimum of 80% of the test solved to pass. The examinations shall take place before a committee consisting of people from the Faculty of Law and Economics and assistant state auditor. By the way, he has to have a general part of the state exam. And that's not all, it has to do three independent audits with mentoring. Only when it meets all these criteria will it receive a certificate from an authorised national auditor. Only then can he get a salary increase of 7500 kuna. Imagine, 7500 for so much effort and investment in your own knowledge. It's embarrassing that these people stand on the front line of defense against corruption and crime and on the sidelines are society at the cost of pay. The basis of every good auditor is to be above all independent and objective. They are unfortunately underpaid and controlled by units of local self-government, public enterprises, state-owned companies, political parties etc. The DUR even audited itself through an independent audit to show its transparent business. This way I ask all of you to, in addition to accepting the report on the work of the Office of State Audit, accept and appeal for an increase in the salaries of people standing on the first line of defense against corruption and crime. If we're a state that swears on transparency and legal business, this appeal shouldn't be a problem for all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7583	Thank you very much, ma'am. Grman Kizwat, stay, we have two replicas. The first replica is the esteemed representative of Anka Dark Taritash, who this time waved.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7584	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues, you've actually focused your exposure on one topic and these are the people who are doing the review. So we here often in all the things where we look at all the scandals and everything else, we forget people who are responsible, consciously doing their job, and it often says that we have too few people, and that's not surprising. No wonder these people work for relatively small salaries, these people have to go through education continuously and they're kind of on the first line and very often we all know the public administration to put everything under the same denominator but it's not like that. And it's good that you've dedicated that work, the work of the people because actually good auditors aren't on the road, they've been building for years, and then after years of building, it happens to you that these good auditors are going somewhere else.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7585	Thank you, time. Thank you very much, reply to the line, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7586	Thank you, Vice President. Yes, authorised state auditors actually, when they are employed in the State Audit Office, it's a springboard for them to go somewhere further when they get a certificate that's unfortunate in the country we live in, it should be al-mari, let's say it was said on the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, it should be al-mari, for example. The judiciary, meaning to the DORH, the Hop, the governor of the CNB, etc. and they are, of course, on the sidelines of society in a way that they are underpaid and how can we expect one auditor to be independent and objective and control institutions where there are the most crime? I agree with you, and that's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7587	Thank you very much. Next replica, Honorable Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7588	Thank you very much. My fellow Members, I would absolutely support this proposal of yours that I have been in this House for 4 years, saying that when I report here hundreds of pages, reports that will give us both transparently and publicly for discussion, it does a huge job, and on several occasions in these reports I have asked the state auditor, what is the financial situation, first of all, materially and of course, what are the salaries, whether the salaries are enough for our independent auditors, and that should be discussed by our parliamentary representatives. I absolutely support that these people must be paid well because they are doing a significant and responsible job for us citizens of the Republic of Croatia and I expect that we will also make a call to those who decide, who propose the budget to the Croatian government, that finally people who do their job well will receive financial rewards.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7589	Time. Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7590	Thank you, Comrade Bull. I agree with you, I hope there will be hearing from certain people who decide and I just have to say one more thing. That when a man is financially independent, he can do his job in quality. So they're looking into some things, or they're reviewing things that are related to finance, efficiency, etc. What I'd like to say is what I missed in my presentation is that even when they did a good audit, we had the Virovitica City case, so they went to the field, they found that 17 million kuna was missing, they did their job bravely, and they don't even have the opportunity to stimulate their work. It's embarrassing in a country where auditors should be very well paid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7591	Thank you. The next individual debate was registered by the respected representative Katarina Peovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7592	As a matter of fact, according to that replica I sent to my colleague Bulju, and we can conclude that the report is indeed a metaphor of the society where we live, but the report is positive and thus will remain in a number of other cases and probably also in these cases which you have asked as a question and in these cases concessions, above all, which appear as problematic in this State report. What is problematic is not just one formal legitimate negativity that we can find here, so that is the fact that this concession contract cannot be found, that we have no insight into the documents through which the concession was signed, which is indeed tragic, but the problem of the corrupt nature of the concessions is such that the social majority in Croatia pays their profits to private entrepreneurs regarding these concessions. But nothing's going to change, because it's not about corruption that can be eradicated so neither the Audit Office is engaged nor the DORH, but it can be solved by starting to ask some taboo of the topic to start opening up and to start asking some concrete questions. And the particular question would be, if this wasn't one systemic, structural corruption, not corruption that we could root out by replacing someone in the State Audit Office or in some other or in companies, or even changing our power because we had one power, we had another power, and one and the other power was doing the same thing. It means, although it has been found that from the beginning of the concession to the end of 2018, 500 million kuna paid subsidies, although by the end of this concession Zagreb-Macelj highway will be paid a billion kuna, although the Istrian ipilon is subsidized it will continue, there is no help there. When you say nationalization, then you're accused of Bollyvism, but nationalization is the solution that the social majority doesn't pay private firms their profits. The same thing appears in all these situations, and then Anton Kleman of HDZ tells us in his speech and praise to the government that the Istrian Ipsion and Zagreb-Macelj are a great thing by completely denying what she saw even the revision that it was about concessions that go to the social majority. Says Kleman that circumstances have changed, that it's easy to sing today. No, it's even easier to deny, it's easier than singing to deny all the negativity of systemic corruption that HDZ is responsible for. In the capitalism periphery where the state carries the risk of doing business for private interests, it is colleagues and fellow socialists for rich and capitalism for the poor. A thousand times we've heard a repeated lie that shipbuilding is a hole without a bottom and that subsidies can no longer be given by hand and hat. Shipbuilding employs thousands and thousands of people in Croatia, highways not exactly, but it was concluded that it is okay and it is correct that the disbursed social majority in Croatia, which is being fired as on the track, must pay profits to private concessionaries. All other issues will be addressed in this way because they are taboo topics that clearly cannot be opened. One thing I would just point out, and I mentioned in my question, the Office of State Audit has well noted that the measures and activities taken to mitigate poverty in the Republic of Croatia do not work. First of all, what I asked as a question of how it's possible to have such measures without actually having clear indicators of how we're going to reduce that poverty. So the measures can't practically be functional especially in a country where I'm going to remind you that social indicators of poverty and depravity are just criminally high in which, I'm going to give you just one example, almost a million people live at risk of poverty, 7% of people can't pay for heating, 10% for meat meal or vegetarian equivalent, so these are things that the State Audit could refer to as a question, but I'm afraid there will be no reaction.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7593	Time. Thank you. You only have one replica, a respected representative of Damir Habian reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7594	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues. You expressed at the beginning of your presentation if I may say so astoundingly since most of the MPs here said or commended the work of the State Audit Office, and you pointed out a number of irregularities. So, I would like to point out HS here to discuss the report and I think that no one can dispute that it is the same professional, that it is very well done despite the fact that we heard the lack of personnel, and the fact that certain things have been found or that a conditional opinion or an unfavourable opinion is something that later the state authorities, which we are learning from the chief state auditor, will determine in a procedure which is envisaged and clearly prescribed. After all, there are also broken sentences prescribed for such cases. Therefore, let us have little confidence in the institutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7595	Thank you very much. Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7596	And how can we trust institutions when we are just witnessing the Janaf affair that we heard was also the subject of an investigation and today we are looking at this comedy in the media where it's clear that it couldn't be answered in some structural way in these things, that we have to start asking questions that are deep and that are really fundamental because every little bit we're going to have an affair. Yes, I think we have praised this report, most MPs and MPs have praised this report, but what frustrations most of the opposition is that there is absolutely no guarantee that what in that report at all is listed as problematic already there is much to be addressed in any way.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7597	Thank you very much. Next individual debate, respected representative Vesna Nadj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7598	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Respected chief state auditor with associates, colleagues and colleagues. According to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, the State Audit Office is the highest audit institution of the Republic of Croatia which is independent and independent in its work. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth The State Audit Office states that their vision is good governance in the public sector, transparency, public responsibility and action in the interests of citizens. How successful were they in achieving that vision? It could not be said much since the public money spending affairs that every so often appear in the media are mainly the result of a media campaign, and the smaller part of the DORH or USKOK investigation specialises in the pursuit of corruption and organised crime. We heard it was in 2019. The State Audit Office sent HS 242 financial audit reports, 25 audit performance reports, which is a huge job to be really commended. Despite a number of recommendations from the State Audit Office, we have not witnessed an increase in economics, efficiency and purpose, improved the legal framework and improved the services of citizens. All those who have ever been in the governance structure in the public sector know how the State Audit works and they can't miss anything if something was suspicious. Therefore, the auditors of the State Audit Office shall be regularly announced and have to be provided with an adequate room in which the audit is carried out and the requested documentation shall be provided. They're always combing public procurement procedures, official travel procedures, representations, work contracts. If the management structure of the state body, the chair of the company’s management, the head of the company’s management, the mayor, or the mayor’s mayor’s office is important to comply with the law and on the principle of transparency and efficiency, it will immediately remove the observed illegalities and irregularities identified by the State audit. They're uncomplicated officials with ethical integrity. But it is no wonder that a significant number of officials at local and central level are persistently breaking regulations, especially in public procurement procedures because these types of procurement are the largest public funds that apparently end up in private pockets. There is only one reason for such boastful behaviour, which is that such officials have a political mentor, that investigations are stopped only at the recommendation of the State Audit Office, and even if a judicial procedure is initiated it lasts for years until a judicial verdict is reached. Corruption is a clientelism disease that is tied to the government central or local, and the client always has his own cartridge high in the structures of the government that must show him his loyalty, and in return he gets patronage and security of his position. However, when a ruling is passed, it is possible to either smudge in BiH or fake a disease, while at the same time taking summers, drinking coffee on the bench and laughing at the face of the entire judicial system and all citizens. We've seen from the report that illegalities were found in the audit process, it's a large number. The State Audit Office shall notify the DORH of the orders and recommendations that have not been implemented and of the failure to carry out the tasks and recommendations within the prescribed time limit. It would be good to know what DORH has taken on these notifications from the State Audit Office. The chief state auditor says it's not in the jurisdiction of the State Audit Office, so let's change the law then. For example. in the report on the implementation of the recommendations given for the revision of the procurement efficiency in Janaf d.d. It is apparent from November 2018 that the State Audit Office has assessed that the Janaf procurement system is not sufficiently efficient. Recommendations have been made to remove irregularities and failures. The State Audit Office has carried out a review of the implementation of the recommendations given to audit the efficiency of the procurement at Janaf. Of the 18 recommendations, 14 were implemented and 4 were not implemented, and the State Audit Office estimated that satisfactory progress had been made. Therefore, at the end of 2018, the Commission concluded that The State Audit Office is pleased with Janaf’s public procurement operations to take place in September 2019. USKOK conducted reconnaissances in a corruption affair over public procurement in Janaf. From this we can conclude that perhaps the State Audit Office at the end of 2018 has not yet received a green light to examine public procurement in Janaf.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7599	Thank you very much, Mrs. Nadj, time. You have one replica, a respected representative named Anka Mrak Taritash came forward.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7600	Thank you very much. So, when we read the entire report on the work of the State Audit, then somewhere at the end of the report, we have one good piece of information, which is how the audit entities evaluate the work of the audit and then they're rated there with a score of 4.7, so we really have to be correct to the end, and about a little less than 40% of the subjects did that. So now we really have something that requires further discussion and everything else. The audit entities have therefore assessed that the audit is good, effective and everything else, but are still ready for the next revision not to do what is required of them. In this regard, I must stress that last year 2019 was an amendment to the law, or a new Law on the work of audits, which, after many years of moaning, is that nothing can be done is defined that when someone gets that bad grade, that is when we tell those school grades the unit should also be subject to sanctions.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7601	Time. Thank you very much. You'll get two more minutes. Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7602	Yes, it is true that 4.7 respondents said they were satisfied with the revision, but I think it is those who are in any case correcting their irregularities and illegalities. The smaller numbers, which obviously do not do so, certainly did not assess the positive work of the state audit.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7603	Thank you very much. Next individual debate, distinguished representative Anka Mrak-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7604	Thank you, well-respected vice president of HS, a respected state auditor with associates, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a report on the work of the State Audit for 2019. This Report should be seen in 2 contexts. One context is just the report and the way it was done, and the other is the one that interests us much more, and that is what the report found and what is the consequence of this report. This report, too, should not be looked at in the context of one year but should look at everything that was before. The state audit has passed historically its path, passed a series of additions, transformations, amendments to the law, and I could estimate that if we have the right to evaluate, and I think there is, that they are doing their job correctly and best that they can do in the given conditions. It's a nice piece of information, so they've delivered all the tables that we just need to read, and so maybe we can figure something out. You have the data, the number of people employed in the audit, from 2013 to 2019, and when you see that the number of employees in 2013 was 277, and 2019. 291. On the one hand, when you look, everyone will say that working in the public administration is good, so someone to start working in the public administration, that it's really good, that it can work there, that it's a safe job, but this information tells you that being an auditor isn't even simple, that there's really a problem for people who go through all the educations that they are, that they don't stay working for their own, for that pay that's small, go somewhere else, and that's a common phenomenon that really people who are good at doing their job, very quickly find work somewhere else, and that's one of the better public administrations, and that's also what I think it's good to talk about in this House. Likewise, I think it's convenient to see, and we've completely forgotten that, we have here as attachment 1. An independent auditor's report. Therefore, an independent auditor has been auditing the State Audit Office and has submitted its report in Annex 1. I must admit, I remember well that one of my questions was out there about a year and two years ago, whether there is someone who has such experience, knowledge and everything else, these are specific jobs, but apparently becomes and he rated the work of the State Office for Auditing, in accordance with the laws and everything else. I've been particularly intrigued by two things in this report. One item is where the Central Salary Account has been audited. It's nice to read it, and it's nice to see it when they did it, and you're actually reading a series of essential problems that we have. Legislatively, to be able to operate the COP in the application of more than 300 laws, regulations and everything else. Then we have three different basics for the salary account. There are 567 different accessories. So, the idea was for COPs to be one place to charge salaries for all those in place, the public sector. So it's not just the ones that we see on the counters, there's health care employees, there's all those in the public sector and this is convenient to see that you have a system that applies 300 laws or sublegal regulations. So all you need to know is what's in these individual laws and 567 different supplements. So actually, this COP has remained the meaning of all of it together at all, but it's good that it's in one place, it's good to deal with it all together and somehow we're taking care of it because it's actually showing this different attitude towards public administration, different attitude to certain activities, and it's one of the good data we have from these audits. These revisions, when you read it, you also have a few recommendations to amend certain regulations and that some regulations are unsettled. It would be convenient to see, when.../incomprehensible/... we see the work of individual ministries, whether the ministries have read it and whether they have applied it and whether they are really using and changing regulations, or what the audit has written and changing regulations to comply with the audit finding. which was. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7605	Thank you. Next for individual debate, respected representative Ruzica Vukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7606	... Respected. [[Specially enabled.]] In the implementation and management system of the European Structural and Investment Funds and the implementation of projects co-financed by EU funds, control and audit can be carried out by different bodies. Therefore, the audit bodies, meaning ARPA, the Agency for the Audit of the EU Programme Implementation System, then the auditors of the EU Commission including OLAF, the external auditor authorised by the EU Commission, the European Court of Auditors, the State Audit Office, then the managing body, or the certification body, that is, the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Croatia. The review of this Report has no audit results, nor has the Office carried out any activities related to EU funds, or is this not seen in this report. Therefore, if so, it is necessary to indicate separately in the report or in those entities which have been processed, and in the system are the implementation of the ESI Funds programme. Under the provisions of the new law on the State Audit Office, the audit is subject to income and expenditure, assets and liabilities, financial reports, financial transactions, and programmes, projects and activities of audit entities. Legal persons in the Republic of Croatia use EU funds for international financial mechanisms and other international organisations or institutions to finance public needs. But it's not visible from the report. What are the results of their international action? What did that accomplish? We're glad they hung out, and that's all that's said. But what exactly is there for the sake of the Republic of Croatia? It's not really visible or measurable anywhere. We commend the detailed presentation of data on individual entities, but what is interesting is not stated anywhere why the revision was carried out just above those or selected legal persons? This report is definitely missing a cost analysis. Therefore, an analysis of the costs of work of the State Audit Office, as well as an analysis of the benefits achieved for the budget of the Republic of Croatia. So the calculation of how much they actually managed to contribute financially to their audits to good governance in the public sector, how much they managed to contribute to the transparency of the system, how much they managed to contribute to public responsibility, and to action in the interests of the citizens, as they themselves have actually cited by determining the vision of their own existence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7607	Thank you. Next for an individual debate, the respected representative Grozdana Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7608	Thank you very much, Vice President, Mr. Klesic, with his associates. Well, I, I also wanted to look at this part of you, but I don't agree with my colleague Vukovac that you haven't shown what happened with European funds and you actually need to do individual analyses of each city, municipality or county so that you can determine exactly what the effects are and what you've been looking at and what the effects of individual projects are. Just as I told you in the replica, you are only when you look at this part of the sector, so the revision of public includes 75 entities, 20 counties, 28, 29 cities and 26 municipalities, along with all those other entities that you listed in your own report, so also companies owned by municipalities, cities, states and the like, so that, that the coverage of your jobs is huge and given the capacity you have and the number of employees then you can't do every year every subject but you have to do it at some intervals and actually follow what happened at these intervals at these subjects, how much they've made a move, how much they've corrected certain recommendations or what they've achieved in that sense. And then that's that efficiency review that you're carrying out further. So it's very important to look at what the State Audit Office has been doing over the past year and in fact how it's all been handled. What I am also very interested in is the use of EU funds or EU funds, and it is important to stress that, with your review as part of your regular audit, the audits of individual projects are also doing economic audits, so the audit houses that are authorized to check, check these facilities. So far, what we've seen has been very high-quality, and in the end, it's clear that all of what you've mentioned here may be a disproportionate balance between recording the income itself or recognising the income that was in that reporting period, and some units have shown in fact the total amount of funds received, which was not in proportion to the costs of the contracts carried out, and then it flows from year to year, but I'm convinced that in most cases it was respected. What you would like to point out in particular is that your report also stated that you have been checking in the framework of financial audits, you are also doing audits of compliance and efficiency, there have been 49 checks, so you could see that you have been working here with different entities, starting with companies owned by the Republic of Croatia, local units, and then county etc. And you can see that there's a lot of these 196 companies over 840, so over 50% of the recommendations were made, until one part was implemented. All this is saying that your influence and your suggestions are very much influencing that the way you behave and change and thus correct all these effects are precisely thanks to your, your interventions.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7609	Time. Thank you very much, we have two replicas, the first respected representative of Rade Simičević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7610	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here, colleague, we have seen that an impressive number of audits has been made and this through the commendation of the state auditor with his associates, and does it seem to you that increasing the number of auditors would be a more high-quality shift in the prevention and repression of irregularities, or that the increase in both prevention and repression could ultimately lead to the overall improvement of audits, i.e. that the awareness of people who are the leaders of certain entities can approach the performance of this responsible task differently and better? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7611	Thank you. Here's the answer to the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7612	Thank you very much, dear colleague. So certainly that the number of auditors that could then carry out audits of a certainly larger number of subjects and probably at more frequent intervals, because sometimes it happens that some companies owned cities or states, there are units of local self-government, regionally more often covered, and are on the bottom line somewhere every two to three years, but all of these other companies certainly with an increased number of auditors, quality ones, would be able to control themselves more frequently and then actually work both comparisons and control recommendations whether they did what was planned.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7613	Thank you very much, next replica of the respected representative Sabina Vosovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7614	Well, I'm very glad that you mentioned that you were glad that the guidelines and suggestions of the State Audits still have an impact and change of behaviour, too bad you didn't behave like that and when you were head of finance in the City of Zadar, where, together with Calmet in 2011, you kidnapped 27.1 million kunas of socially endangered citizens and purposelessly spent funds from the sale of state dwellings that were supposed to go to the very most socially endangered citizens of the City of Zadar. You spent it on your current bakanalias and needs, it was determined by the State Audit, you didn't make it five percent. But since you may have evolved something by 2020, I ask you to start with an education on how to respect the State Audit, you can start with Virovitica, which was the only one in all cities to get a non-conditional but unfavourable opinion, go with Mr. Kirin, you'll be lucky, you have experience.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7615	Thank you very much, the reply to the replica of the respected representative Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7616	Thank you very much. All the funds that were received from the funds d apartments were also recorded in such a way that they belonged to these funds, and from them are still at all times when the City Council decided to invest in encouraging housing, in any purpose it needed for social cases, these funds were spent on purpose. Therefore, it was not spent at that time on one occasion, because for such needs it was not, and we are one of the first cities that we have just recognized this possibility of building encouraged housing and thus helped hundreds of families who are very grateful for what we have done in the City.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7617	Thank you very much, thank you very much. Please, let's maintain order at the Assembly, please. Next for an individual debate, honourable representative Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7618	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, distinguished state auditors with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs. The State Audit Office's report for 2019 is, as always, one grateful topic and offers a broad opportunity and expert and political debate, we heard today and professional but also political discussions between our colleagues and colleagues. What is important to me, it is important that the State Audit is an independent body responsible for reviewing compliance and business, but also financial reports, and that what they need to be adorned, I think that we have confirmed many times already debated their reports, is one extremely high professionalism which then causes of course and trust in the whole system, and I think that it has never been disputed here in the past and more than one term, so here are the congratulations to them and on this review report for 2019, because it is seen that what, let's say the politicians want from that Audit Office, it doesn't want to be, so many here want to be it is that they want the State Audit Office to actually be the DORH, that the main state auditor is a state attorney, but it's not like that their opinions, I think, both at the local and at the regional level, and at the state level, they really respect themselves in terms of the business of each entity, from the City of Zupina, etc. Of course, each of us who is responsible for something or is chosen to be responsible, whether local or national, at national level, or regional, wants to get an unconditional opinion, but it is not very simple and it is not always possible. Of course everyone's trying to do it. We have both conditional, and unfavourable, and abstention, and when we look at absolutely some relationship that suggests this report is that one large, most of it actually operates most in accordance with the law, that only 1.2% or 1.3% of us had unfavourable opinions when we talk about what interests me in this report, these are local self-government units. But I think that also applies to all other bodies, that this percentage is practically visible to all other institutions that have passed this finding, that is, the report of the revision. What's the big deal? I don't think there's much to hide, no matter how many people try to do something about it, I don't think it's simple anyway, and that the review has a very simple way and methodology to find out absolutely everything that it wants from a particular local self-government to a state or agency or a ministry. Croatia has 555 JLS, 75 or 13% of them have been processed in this report. Mostly the City of Zagreb raises, let's say, absolute amounts of financial total income or expenditure, we're talking about almost 18.5 billion supervised funds in incomes and expenditures, and it's obvious that there are those who can and can normally function, carry surpluses, there are those who can't and can't carry the deficits that don't realize or recover and, of course, every next time, the parties, every one who is supervised has some obligations. What do I see as a problem? I think what's expressed through the results. These are problems of accounting nature, Public procurement law, property records, planning system. I think that, in some ways, when we talk about audits, it always comes down to the responsibility of the first and only man elected directly in the elections, it is the mayor, mayor, mayor or at the state level that we are talking about ministers or the Prime Minister himself. However, when we enter the processes, we see that there is a small disproportionateity because we really carry great responsibilities, and officials are not so much compared to what they may need to be imposed on because I may say a few examples. I don't know, the public procurement system you have the chief at the beginning and in the end, means the procurement decision and the choice decision, in the middle you're gone, someone else chooses. Let's say in concessions, concessions or concession approvals, you sign the plan, then you're gone, all the problems go to you even though you don't make decisions. We have problems in accounting, you have your accounting services, they books properly and they need to know what to do, eventually the findings are signed by the mayor, the mayor, which he can except find out that something might have been wrong and that his clerk may not have done something right. Do we have a system of responsibility that may still not give officials what they might need? And in the end, there's only one sentence about political parties. I think the loudest ones today were those to whom the DIP has just given the State Election Commission an unfavourable opinion on their latest financial report. They've all had flaws, called HDZ, and they're themselves. on transparency simply forgot, a [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]] This revision has also been established. [[Intruder: Thank you, time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7619	Thank you. You've picked up the most replicas, so we'll take it in a row. The first is Honorable Representative Željko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7620	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. Dear colleague, here I would just like to point out what you said yourself, this fact that the review controls the documents. And actually controls business events that are being... through the documents in a way that they're... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] through documents. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Unfortunately, we know what's going on ourselves, I'm not just talking about local self-government, like this in public procurement. It's one of the big problems where about 36 billion kuna is spent annually, and we don't really have the right control over these processes. That control should be quite different in a way that audits are done before calling the competition itself, to control it in the right way, that's the first thing. The other thing is, I wanted to look back on the subject of Mrs. Crescent's exposure. Anke Mrak-Taritash. It is evident that the audit reports are not working. Her exposure is one of the evidence. If we still have 300, she said the legal rules, no, but we have 300 acts to account for in the state services, so to date, and that's already done by 7.g. It didn't do anything. [[Intruder: Time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7621	Thank you. Here's a reply to the replica, Mr. Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7622	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleague, I agree in, in what you said because I think that, not only in this part of which you've been talking about, but absolutely all the planning systems that we often impose from the state level and local level and vote here for them, it just happens and maybe even preplanning. And when we look at the last Law on the municipal economy, it has led us to think completely different about the municipal economy today than perhaps 3 years ago, but it has bound us, it has really committed to much more detail and plans and all the other obligations that we have as the leaders of local self-government. What do you do with this part, let's say, the Public Procurement Act? Well, I'd like to see here personally if it really moves away from politicians and that the services that carry it and carry it all the way and then be more or less responsible on them than it is on politicians themselves, although it may be difficult to find a measure to avoid. Simply the one who is directly chosen, but also the councillors who are also elected, make many decisions, and in many they absolutely do not participate except when they come before them.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7623	Thank you very much. The next replica, the esteemed representative of Angelko Strick.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7624	Thank you, Vice President HS, colleague Boric, colleagues and colleagues. Comrade Boric, you've made a good point, when you get a state review in the reconnaissance, there's nothing you can hide, first of all you're looking for a budget, all the bills, payments, decisions, conclusions to support, it's just not possible to hide anything. Among other things, I was alone for 10 years. Chief, of which at least seven findings, reconnaissances, it's mostly impossible to hide anything and you've made it very clear and good that you've pointed out that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7625	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, please be my guest, Mr. Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7626	Thank you very much. I'm saying here's my humble opinion, but I really think today we've reached a methodology, but also a way of thinking about the state's review, which is what it is and everything else, let's say, to the state bodies that are part of the repression system, that we know that we really need to act as leaders at our level. But what I see is one problem where we have to sign or make decisions, and unfortunately in some processes or moments you simply don't influence, and then what maybe the media likes and what happens today in the public that then mostly the accent puts on politicians who have been elected and those who have made decisions, and those who have actually been in the process there is a little less responsibility and that maybe the new Public Procurement Act, some... thinking maybe we should do something different and solve it. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7627	Thank you very much. The next replica is the respected representative Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7628	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here's what we all know is that the revision is extraordinary.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7629	Mr. Rade, Mrs. Rade. Katarina Peović is, I apologize if I'm incomprehensibly saying...... No, no, no. ... [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] No, I told Katarina Peovic, I have witnesses, we can review the phonogram, all right, thank you. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7630	Well, here you are saying that the opposition would also like the revision to be DORH and that nothing can be hidden from the audit, you also say that the opposition is frustrated, I'm simplifying, because nothing has happened. But it's quite clear from this report, and I suppose we also have concessions on contracts that cost the social majority 5 billion kuna, that once the last 10 years, 57% of the revenues are contributions from the budget and what really frustrations the opposition is that we can't do anything about it. Well, I would say so much what your colleague stated that circumstances have changed and that it's easy to sing today, no, it's even easier to pin down negative indicators that break over the back of the social majority because they're not the back of the HDZ gentlemen.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7631	Replica response, respected representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7632	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, I think Mr. State Auditor was very clear in his statement today when he spoke of the finding. the State Audit report, as well as any other moments that occur within that report. So the moment they found something, they sent the DORH, as something that might need to be looked at and examined and found a solution to such a situation where they might have gotten into those 1.5% or 2% who got unfavourable opinions but everybody else obviously with problems, at that point I think the repression system takes responsibility for itself to solve it. I don't think it should be disputed for us politicians to talk about it in a way like it's a gentleman, I don't know, a state auditor who needs to start an automatic investigation where that contract you're talking about is. I think we have clearly shared in this country the power to legislative, executive and judicial and that everyone has their powers and there's a lot of talk about it today. Most of the time, a lot of people talk. who don't stick to the one as well as maybe... [[Intruder Škoro: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7633	Time, thank you very much. Thank you very much. Dear fellow Shimičević, you won't believe me, now it's your turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7634	Here's a thank you. No problem, all right. I'm going to renew what I started to say, so the revision is extremely sensitive and if the finding is not good, then there are problems in the economic subject and do you think that the revision should work every year for those economic operators whose findings are not good and if we translate the language of success at school, so the student can fall one year, another year if he falls, loses the right to school. So, should we be a little bit more repressive since this is an extremely sensitive moment for the community and society and to reduce any problems that may arise? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7635	Thank you, reply to the line, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7636	Thank you very much. So I wouldn't judge whether someone should be monitored every year if they were really wrong, that what they're wrong about is getting an unfavourable opinion from the State Audit Office, and I think that then as a state auditor, I'd consider seeing someone else take a look at him for recommendations next year and do what he says inside that he should do. What is the problem, what we have really many institutions and bodies to oversee, just 555 units of local self-government and regional self-government, is not possible in one year absolutely comb and determine everyone's what it is. That's why there's a methodology that's been determined but it's important that no one is freed from that that year that you're going to be audited because it's going back and forth for a certain period, so I think that the system is set up so that it can notice everything that's wrong in that system is done. That's the most important thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7637	Thank you very much. Next replica, the esteemed representative of Mr. Branko Bačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7638	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear counterpart Boric, I agree with you, so it is very important to find State audits in which illegality and irregularity have been established and after the same report has been adopted by the Croatian Parliament, experience his epilogue at the judicial institutions of the Republic of Croatia because then practically remains a dead letter on paper. This is what is important in the process of such conduct. Well, since she's already being a lady. The vote came back in earlier years, for example in 2011, it would be good to remember, for example, that, if you remember, somewhere over 22 million kunas were not used in a communal fee for which the State's Office for Audit found it and it later went towards the DORH, but there it stopped, and it did not ultimately realize such an eclectic example of non-compliance with the Law on the Communist Economy to which the State for the revision then reacted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7639	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7640	Thank you very much. Dear counterpart Bačić, when I talk about these specialities that she tried to highlight, colleague Glasovac, she always looks at someone else's yard, never looked at her, perhaps you should look at at the time the Ministry of Education when she was an assistant, whether it was conditional or unconditional, I think it was conditional, obviously they had mistakes but of course. And so the city of Rijeka, it's a specific city, and I see sometimes this finding of that city, and I wonder how it goes without any sanctions, there are really findings that are questionable nature, which is what a system of presses should do, why no one acts, I don't know. We've had a lot of situations, and we've had budget users when we talk about HNK where there's been a judicial epilogue, it's still based on the State Audit report. Now we've had a situation with a strange story about the stage and the European Capital of Culture, we don't know where it ended, probably the press system has done something, whether it will come to an end, I don't know, but obviously there were both land rentals and everything else that would be discussed, and politicians are talking about it there, but obviously at one point when the audit did its part. The press system has obviously not led to the end of a certain... [[Intruder Škoro: Time.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7641	Thank you very much, Mr. Boric, time. Here's another, 6th Replic, distinguished representative Marin Mandarić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7642	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Boric, I have been offered your exposure especially as regards the work of the revision of the units of local self-government, you have guessed well, I am not sure how much this has worked in the ears of all of us, but also the viewers who watch this transfer are actually responsible and on the leaders of the units of local self-government, they are guilty of everything and everything, sometimes not deserved. What I would like to say about the revision, let's say that in the city of Djakov's review four years ago when I came to the mayor's office a little over three years ago we had something to see, a whole series of irregularities and recommendations and findings to be corrected, we threw ourselves at it ruthlessly and we still work on it and I can't wait for the review to come back in the city of Djakovo so let's see if we're finally on the right track. And all those who want to carry out their duties professionally and their jobs should be happy when they are audited and should be seen as co-operation and an opportunity to improve their system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7643	Thank you. Time. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative, Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7644	Thank you very much, Vice President. I agree with you fellow, simply a lot of leaders come after the last four years of new in office, some themselves demand independent audits independently of the State Audit that they determine certain states. I know several municipalities that have asked for new commissioners to come and determine the condition to be determined by them by handover because these handovers don't look exactly what they're supposed to look like and then you're surprised after a few months that's been waiting for you. But I am saying what is important means the professionality of a system that causes the trust of leaders, politicians, but also citizens, we also need politicians in HS to know and recognize that it has a methodology that recognises certain procedures and mistakes in these procedures, and now it is up to us to turn around certain things here as politicians, and maybe where we see that there are problems that are found to be audited, and they do not bring responsibility to the leader, and it is perhaps appropriate to change this through legal provisions in order to really establish the right system that carries responsibility... /The speakers speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7645	Time, thank you. Thank you very much, Mr. Boric. You've been through a lot for 17 minutes. Followed by respected representative Tomislav Tomasevic with his individual debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7646	Thank you for your word, Mr. Chairman. The report on the work of the State Audit Office for 2019 provides really material that can be discussed here, I will remain on the part of this report relating to the revisions of concessions for public and municipal services. In fact, there was also a question on the occasions of the promoter whether the State Audit was doing any audits related to the wastewater purifier in Zagreb and I can say that it is, but has not done any new audits for a long time. And I think that exactly the same thematic audits as we had in this report on sports stadiums, as we had previously had thematic reports on the construction of those sports halls for handball championships or as we had these thematic reports and audits related to water services, I think that such activities are valuable, that they are very much putting light on various private concessions that are harmful to the citizens of the City of Zagreb and Croatia. And in that sense, it would encourage the continued work of the State Audit on such reports. I will now give several examples, such as concessions for wastewater treatment services in Zagreb since 2000-28. The State Audit made a report in 2013 on the economic justification of the price of public water services in Zagreb. I hope that this report last year has been amended by the Water Services Act or the new Water Services Act, which is why it is now forbidden to privatise so-called. a waste water treatment service because it has proved that we have had catastrophic concessions to private companies precisely in such activities. It was possible to participate in the Law on Waters of the 1990s in the private sector in the treatment of waste water, on the basis of which concession contracts were concluded only in two cities in Croatia, one is Zagreb, the other is Zaprešić. On the results of this model, it is enough to say that Zapresic has not yet fully functioned a wastewater purifier and there has been bankruptcy and revision of the contract, and in Zagreb, a concession contract was concluded between the two companies, which the State Audit also combed since 2013. Namely, I couldn't, I don't know why on your pages to find this report from 2013, I had to dig up, meaning the link that I used to use on your pages where the report was no longer working, I had to dig up the digital archive of the Government and HItro to find that report again, and I think it's very, very useful and that it leads to what HS should do, and it's learning from the thematic audits and doing legislative changes, as I hope we learned from the revision of the concession for the City of Zagreb. According to the report, according to the audit, the concessionaire has achieved a net profit of 900 million kuna or 28% of the revenues achieved since 2004-2011. So now you tell me what business it is that I know I can invest in that business where that percentage of profits are achieved, such a tax rate. But let's move on, and also a significant amount of profits is achieved by a company entrusted by the concessionaire to the management and maintenance of wastewater purifiers. Namely, in 2010 and 2011, profits amounted to 75 million kuna or 46% of total revenue, 46% of the rate. So I'm also asking for advice, tell me where such a profit is made, such a profit that I can invest. The profit has also been achieved by a company owned by concessionaires entrusted with the construction of purifiers, and there is also a large profit. As a result, the revision concludes from that price, the obligations towards the concessionary are met, the price of wastewater treatment services is not economically justified in the City of Zagreb because the concessionary, I quote "because the concessionaire makes it possible to obtain 46% of the revenues obtained from treatment services" Not only that, but I will speak finally on behalf of the Club on two highways, for the Istrian Ipsion and Zagreb-Macelj, but I would like to end the risk now with these water services. So not only did he make a profit, but he moved all the risk to the City of Zagreb, so, according to the budget execution, we had to pay 278 million kuna from the budget of the concessionary only in 2019, the HDZ voted in fact for the budget, which is why 2000% increased this item, and I must say that in the City of Zagreb, the price of water increased 300% in this period, and then, in the final name of the Club, I will talk about Zagreb-Macelj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7647	Thank you very much, thank you very much. Time. Thank you, I'm sorry I have to interrupt your interesting exposure. You have one replica, a respected representative called Brumnic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7648	Colito Tomašević, you have well mentioned here the income of concessionaires in the City of Zagreb, but what you did not mention is the fact that no one tried to introduce EU funds into the wastewater treatment project itself, or the construction of a third degree, you were also a city representative when we voted on it, and we saw a political decision by most then in the City Assembly that she did not want to even vote on the attempt to withdraw from the EU funds to build a third degree of purification, which would greatly reduce the cost of building such a system, or the price they pay through the water. Here.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7649	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative Tomašević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7650	You are right fellow Brumnić and are fighting otherwise HDZ and the City of Zagreb who is responsible for the fact that despite this huge profit and the payment of hundreds of millions of kunas from the budget annually and another 300% increase in the price of water, still the third level of wastewater treatment in Zagreb is not made, and not only that, it seems that we will finance it from the City of Zagreb budget because it is not foreseen in the operational programmes that the third level of funding from EU funds is being financed, the City of Zagreb wants to raise a loan and will not transfer it to the concessionaire but will ultimately also pay citizens. So you're absolutely right. However, what I would add here is to see this also in the Report that is, in the review of the concession for Zagreb-Macelj and Istarski Ipsilon that we have a continuous model where the country is at risk and then is financially funded and concessionaries means all of the missing cars, which we have guaranteed on the highways, and so it is actually a private profit, and the risk is public or social. It's always the same model.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7651	Time, Mr. Tomasevic. Thank you, thank you very much. Let's move on with individual debates next in line, the esteemed representative Angelko Strick.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7652	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, chief state auditors with associates, colleagues and colleagues. This report should be observed with two aspects, one aspect of the content, and another report should be seen with two aspects. If we look at the first aspect of the content, I can say that it is transparent, exhaustive, with a lot of data, that even gives a review of the development of the Office in the future and I think it is indeed commendable. When we talk about findings, opinions and recommendations, it's also pretty much accompanied by numbers, with a lot of attitudes and opinions, and I also think it gives one image of the current state. There have been a lot of words about findings in municipalities, cities, county, trade-related findings, municipal societies, efficiency audits, but I think it would certainly be good to mention and mention what findings are related to political options. At the end of the political options discuss it on their representative bodies, we here in the Parliament, the County Assembly at their session, City and Municipal Councils on their own, and, of course, they are obliged to correct irregularities and shortcomings. I would also like to stress that here since March and 2019 everything has been delivered to the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia, and in particular those Cities, municipalities, Countys or societies that have not acted according to findings and recommendations, and unfortunately there are fewer, of the 1406 orders and recommendations given in the previous audits, 795 or 56.5% were implemented, 112 or 8% were partially implemented, 111 or 7.9% were in the implementation process, 290 or 20.6% were not implemented until 28 or 7% were applied and recommended. So I think that this is a good direction and that as soon as the State's Attorney's Office is aware of it, it will already be a good incentive to remove irregularities, irregularities. But given that there are a lot of controversy here today, it would be good to see how our political options, parties, independent lists and independent candidates do so. Of the 45 Reports, 24 are unconditional, 21 is conditional or 46% of the political options did not satisfy, 46% is quite a percentage, and they did not satisfy whether according to the criteria of financial reports or the compliance of business the following policy options: the alphabet of democracy, Youth Action, the Labour and Solidarity Party, the Block pensioners together, Independent for Croatia, Dubrovnik Party, Civil-Liberal Alliance GLAS, Croatian conservative party, HSS, HSP, HSP, Dr. Ante Starcevic, HSU, Modern Democratic Force, Forward Croatia, Nova Left, Workers' Front, Party of Democratic Action Croatia, Union of Kvarner, Green Alliance, Željko Kerum – Croatian Civil Party, Live Wall. It is interesting that when we look at who the political options have received conditional opinions, it turns out that they are among the loudest members of these policy options. The most critical, the most suggestive, but they can't begin by themselves. They can't first clean up in their political backyard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7653	That's it. ... I'm sorry, the gentleman finished reading his list, we have four replicas. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] He's the first Mr. Named Brumnic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7654	Dear Mr. Strick, I have to admit it's extremely interesting when someone from the ruling majority comes to this pay phone and praises the report that shows all the data we're talking about here and doesn't say what they're going to do about it but calls here in some way political competitors, whether they've submitted the financial reports, whether they've submitted them exactly exactly in the day that they were supposed to. When you look at this all you've called, your political competitors who warn you of things that are wrong, the weight of their violation for this country is hard to be greater than 100,000 kunas and the problems they warn about are more difficult than a few billion. You don't have an answer for those few billion, but you have a question for someone, I don't agree with not being wrong, but don't be angry, a few billion mistakes that you're told here. You didn't give any of them a little answer. [[Intruder Škoro: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7655	Thank you, Mr. Brumnich, time, please. I have to interrupt, thank you. [[Intruder Brumnic: Thank you very much.]] Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7656	Thank you. Dear colleague, if you have listened to the beginning of my debate, I have welcomed that since March 2019 everyone who does not follow orders and recommendations will be notified to the DORH. And I welcome that. And I think it's a big progress, but I haven't called anyone, I've just read the State Audit report, especially none of my colleagues, or those who are 10 years unemployed and have millions of profits in shares. I haven't called anyone, not even now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7657	Thank you. Next replica, respected representative of Rade Simičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7658	Thank you, Vice President. Your Honor, in your presentation, you were actually talking about irregularities in the work of the parties and I agree with you that one kuna and 100 000 kuna when alienated has the same name. I'm interested in your opinion on what's going to happen to these parties that haven't been working by the book, and what do you propose to make such parties? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7659	Thank you very much. Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7660	Thank you. Dear fellow Members, I am sure that every debate in this House is well-intentioned, that everyone is welcome and that all these political options where certain irregularities have been observed, will certainly be corrected in the next period. Among other things, I often stress that we have created our country with blood, we have paid it dearly with the lives of our defenders and we have paid our entry into Euro-Atlantic associations with a literal standard of living and to live hard, to live. And that is why everyone in politics must be responsible for every kuna, regardless of whether he was in charge of the mayor, mayor, mayor, minister or led the political option. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7661	Thank you very much. The next replica, the esteemed representative of Damir Habian.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7662	Thank you very much, Vice President. Comrade Strick, in your individual debate, you cited parties who received a conditional opinion, but sometimes it would be good to state and mention positive examples so that the parties received unconditional opinion, too, would not be bad at times.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7663	Thank you very much. He can answer the line, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7664	Thank you. Well, I can list them, so Dubrovnik Democratic Assembly, Duspara Mirko, HRAST, HDZ, HDKS, HNS-Liberal Democrats, HSLS, HDSSB, Croatian Labour Laburists-Stranka, IDS, Independent Lists Bridge, Independent List Network, National Party-Reformists, Independent List-Stipe Petrina, see, Independent List-Višnja, Independent List-Zagreb, Smart, PGS, Change Croatia, SDSS, SNAGA, Zagreb is ours, Željka Lacković... SDP, here, most of it. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] [[Intruder Škoro: Please, please, peace.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7665	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, please. I'm asking you nicely. Peace, don't make me reach out to the business opportunities I have. [[Intruder Striker: So most of them here are present.]] Thank you very much, I would ask that the replicas be replicas, that the answers be replies to the replicas, let us not use this as a reading of some lists that should serve as possibly a pillar of shame, etc., so there are others for that, we are here to discuss the report and not to do, thank you, let's move on. The next replica, honourable representative Josip Boric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7666	Thank you very much. Comrade Striker, you have mentioned here the meaning of the parties that have received a conditional opinion, I don't think that might be the most important thing. What we've seen in the past, I think two or three weeks when this last DIP report came out, that the parties were inclined to hide the accounts and not show the costs they had, until the moment they found out, the same day they found all the accounts, everything. Now the question is, how is that possible? It's those who are the most transparent as they say about themselves, the most moral ones, the ones who manage finances neatly, the ones who manage, I say, with the moral vertical of this society and the ones who keep teaching us that it's all our fault. They're the worst. And now we have what we have. We have a club where the former president of the Committee of Conflict of Interest has a member who's a little, little, so in conflict of interest and she doesn't mind. And of course they were looking for a reaction from the president of the state who is clearly in his form today and has solved the question of the club in his own way.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7667	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7668	Thank you. My colleague Boric, you listed everything exactly, but I followed the State Audit Office's work report for 2019. The report says exactly which parties received unconditional opinion, which conditionally. I don't know why some of our colleagues are so irritated, it bothers me. Well, among other things, you pointed out that it's good that there's a State Audit Office when they're combed a little overnight for bills. And that's good, here's how it might still improve its business for, say, a report in 2021 when we're going to discuss 2020, so it's going to be unconditionally like HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7669	Next replica, distinguished representative Marijan Pavliček.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7670	Dear colleague, here I am going to be bound by all the other parties that you have stated have received a conditional opinion, among them you have mentioned my Croatian conservative party. Yes, it is as it was written and it was based on that opinion to correct certain shortcomings. But, look, you've gone on and on about the fact that the loudest ones who got a conditional opinion, that they're critical of the most, so democracy would be criticised by those who are in opposition, but here, unlike the HKS, there's one party that's even been on the defendant's bench and good again.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7671	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7672	Here's my colleague, so I repeat again, I've been holding up the report, everything I've been discussing is in the report. I didn't discuss it outside the report, even one quote that wasn't in the report, I didn't mention it, I discussed it, and of course I did, and I also pointed it out a few times in my replicas and now in my report, that it's good to discuss it. Well, I guess every debate is meant to make things better, not worse, and that's what we're discussing here today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7673	Thank you. No more replicas. Next individual debate, distinguished representative Sabina Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7674	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President HS, dear colleagues and colleagues. A little debate went in the last minutes in the wrong direction and when you listen to some colleagues on this side of the assembly dodging and sharing moral lessons of those whose finances led through suitcases, bags, black bags, slightly bigger bags, smaller bags, which were witnessed by some buried notebooks, those who were then paying out, then I don't think this material would be ashamed of the inspiration or Erasmus Rotterdamski who wrote his own timely commendation, commendation of stupidity. But let's go on, to the content of today's agenda point. This is the State Audit Report that we are discussing in HS year by year, we who are representatives already in one, at least one term had the opportunity to discuss the work of the state audit and the reports they provide. Unfortunately, we often conduct similar debates and similar polemics, from which we draw similar conclusions, but from year to year nothing changes significantly. In doing so, I do not mean the work of the state audit, here and in this graph it is very nice to show both the mission and the vision and the values of the state audit to be adorned, I believe that it is adorned by professionalism, teamwork, awareness, ethics, impartiality, responsibility and reliability, and it should be distinguished by independence, independence, accountability, reliability and integrity. And we will all agree that the State Audit report, as many colleagues here have said, is very correctly drawn up, everything reveals, can't be hidden, but the problem of this state institution, the most institutions in the Republic, which is HS, we MPs and advocates is that we don't have enough power and political influence to influence the relevant, relevant factors in the Republic of Croatia which are related to the State Audit reports to work on the integrity of state audits, but they unfortunately also found themselves on impact, I won't say on impact, but on a slippery ground where there are numerous independent institutions in the Republic. If you want from the Commission to decide on a conflict of interest through a state audit, including some defenders, where from their recommendations among other things, in which direction we should go certain legislative proposals to strengthen their independence, their role in the public interest of transparent financial business when we talk about this case, unfortunately, we are not going in that direction, but we even have some intentions when we talk about the Committee for Decision on Conflict of Interest that those who should strengthen their position want to propose laws that would further break them down and reduce their strength and independence. I need to talk about it here today. And I'm just going to name one, one example that I mentioned both in, and in the replica of my colleague Peric. What do we do, what can we do, what can the State Audit do when you, for example, here I am now going to give an example of an eclant because I am witnessing to him from work at a local level until today at national level. When the State Audit comes to you in 2011, for example, the city of Zadar has established 27.1 million kunas of funds or income from the sale of dwellings over which they had a tenant right that should have been strictly spent on resolving the housing issue of socially endangered citizens in the Republic of Croatia, the funds were accidentally spent on current finances in 2011. In 2015, we then submitted a State Audit report to the Attorney's Office, nothing happened. In 2015, the audit found that not only did these funds not return but it increased the amount to 49 million 684 thousand 815 kuna where the State Audit in 2015 ordered that by 2017 this should be returned and rerouted to socially endangered citizens what was taken from them and cursed. Kidnapped-damned. That didn't happen, unfortunately. In 2018 comes the State Audit again and determines that they have returned, I don't know 1, and some million, you know where, through the APN that encouraging apartment building they didn't get socially endangered amongst others but also the one who was ashamed as long as there wasn't. Isn't it a shame we're so powerless that the integrity of the State Audit of the Republic of Croatia is so down and there's nothing we can do about it. That's what we need to talk about and see how to treat that disease that's...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7675	Time. We have a few replicas to wait for. The first is the distinguished representative Mako Kuzmanic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7676	Thank you, Vice President. It's a good thing that you've noticed this fellow Glasovac about irony in certain parties because I see that one wing of the Parliament obviously happened collective amnesia, so here I found an article that says, "I don't know where 2 million kunas came from, which brought them to me as a donation to Jarnjak. He was obliged to issue a confirmation to donors, said cashier Pavosevic, adding that she was doing everything according to the party statute and the orders of the superiors." I don't know what the State Review for that party gave that year, but since it is a significant damage which is obviously caused by the Croatian state in those times, I cannot believe that some MPs forget when they talk about cleaning up their yard on what hasn't been cleaned up in our judiciary today.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7677	Thank you. Yes, it is just another argument in favour of this issue that it is not good to be hypocritical, and I will also not be hypocritical and say that when I criticise the way I deal with public money, regardless of whether we are talking about the users of the state, local budget, whether we are talking about non-profit organisations, political parties, independent representatives, I think that all should be subject to the same rules and the same pucks, regardless of which the party was involved and which city, municipality, the ministry was during which period. Here's my answer to your replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7678	The next replica, distinguished representative Tomislav Tomašević.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7679	Thank you, fellow Glasovac, for reminding us of some HDZ affairs and a very special way of keeping accounting bookkeeping by HDZ, which includes agricultural activities burying black notebooks in the garden. At the same time, the sharing of moral lessons by HDZ towards parties who received a conditional opinion. So from that perspective I'm interested in, do you think that black notebooks are something that should be attached by HDZ to the financial report, so that the state review goes on and on and on, is it an appendix or should it be formal in such a way that it exists in a form of whether you have any more red notebooks and then to make a more quality audit by the State Review of Finance and Reports of Political Parties?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7680	As my colleague Kuzmanic said, I don't know what the State Audit report was about this famous period of buried notebooks, but I'm sure that this notebook, these bags and these bags should be exposed to some kind of museum as a specimen, an exhibition copy so that we should never do that. And I'm just going to take the answer to your replica as an opportunity to express my disagreement with those colleagues and colleagues who have expressed their satisfaction here that there's a country going in a better direction because here we are getting better. Those repairs, those steps are so miserable we can't even mention them here. As long as we have an illustrious number of conditional and unconditional opinions here, and as long as we have unfavourable opinions in 2020, the unfavourable opinion is the equivalent evidence of serious violations of the law and not fair representation of the facts, we must all be ashamed here together, and not express some satisfaction with small bits of bits.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7681	The next replica, distinguished representative Zeljko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7682	Your Honor, Vice President. Dear MPs. Let me remind you that I just replicated to Mr. Boric. So we keep hiding behind some decisions and some legal regulations that don't force us to process those who didn't manage our money well. I'm not talking about lefts and rights here, I'm talking about people who run state money or social money, not at all. They've been chosen by the people to master these money, they don't master well, when the audit says it's not good no one's processing them. What's this about? So we need to change the regulations. We need to find ways to process these people, whether it's the chief, the head or someone else who's employed in the city, the municipality or some state institution. This must no longer be allowed because this mode of work, which means revision, they write wrong, after which there is no procedure. It doesn't lead anywhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7683	Thank you, fellow Pavić. Well, there's been a debate here for years. The vision of the State Audit Office is quoted as saying, "In the direction of good governance in the public sector, transparency, public responsibility and action in the interests of citizens." Our primary mission should also be to strengthen its role. We've had our chance today from this report to read that these people have been sub-cated for how many jobs they've done this year. I don't mean in terms of intellectually or business, but numerically sub-capacitated, quite underpaid, doing their job, and then with all that, they're still humiliated. What are they humiliated by? By ignoring the action based on what they have found to be a factual state and there we must find an answer to that question and find solutions. And there is the greatest responsibility on the one hand to the legislator that regulates the legislative framework that has changed slightly in 2019 and in other institutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7684	Time. The next replica is the distinguished representative Grozdana Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7685	Fellow Voter, you are very frustrated with Zadar because you have achieved nothing. Zadar, which is a city that has made a great deal of thanks to those who led it, we have made so many that you are frustrated that we have no more social cases, each to one, one kuna that has been received on behalf of income from the sale of dwellings and which has been compensated with the state for asking for state are spent purpose and spent purposefully and is not cut off for any lip in that sense. So what you're saying is total untruths and lies because what we've done through both stimulating housing and through APN and thus actually met all the needs that were needed for this city.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7686	My colleague Peric, I am not frustrated. I am amazed at what ease you deceive the Croatian public. I'll quote you the State Audit Report on the City of Zadar, this is from 2018. “ A warrant or a recommendation, ” he says. It is proposed that the following period continue to take care of the compensation achieved by the sale of apartments spent for other purposes in the previous years."You kidnapped the socially endangered citizens in 27.1 million 2011, and then you took away from them in the coming years and did not return it to them even though you had to do this by the end of 2017. And the only thing I can be frustrated with is, I mean, I'm not frustrated, but I think that socially endangered citizens are already a good part of the years frustrated by the way you've been leading along with Calmett Finance where you didn't care about people so-called. The second order because you treated them like that, but only for yourself and your buttocks not to say the little rough word.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7687	The next replica of the esteemed representative of Angel Strick
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7688	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Dear colleagues, in your debate, you pointed out, first of all, the same rules of the same puck for everyone. And secondly, the findings and opinions must be carried out. And that's where I absolutely agree with you. But you were challenged when colleagues from HDZ debated and presented certain findings from this report, but you are not disputed to state local examples. Well, among other local examples, I can now tell you on the 10th where your mayors and commissioners are involved. So if you want two years ago to find the State Audit for a city in Varazdin where two and a half million kunas were spent without public procurement on security services, etc. So you have these examples as in the story. So let's stick to the report that's in front of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7689	I don't remember any of you in your debate being individual, not in response to a replica or replica where I couldn't share that you mentioned some example of a city or county that may be headed by some other party and it's not HNS that I've replicated to you and said that it's not true, unlike those of you who said that in doing so, brutally attacking political inexperience, forgetting one part of your glorious past that I reminded you of. I agree that the same laws should apply to everyone, the same rules for everyone, and here I have highlighted only Virovitica, only Virovitica because she is the only one here if I am not mistaken in both categories as an unfavourable opinion, and says that an unfavourable opinion is expressed when irregularities with financial accounts of business are identified so significant that conditional opinion would not be appropriate.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7690	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Marijana Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7691	I thank the chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I would like to say from this report first what I said and on the board, we get the results of State audits, their remarks, orders, recommendations for all those institutions that are doing audits, and then stop. Nothing happens after that. So we're here for this pay phone and here your colleagues and you've all talked about how there's no sanctions, there's no responsibility after that. Somehow, the State Audit job seems to make no sense. No wonder then you have a shortage of employees, that people run away from that institution. They're running because they're underpaid, but they're just running away seems like their job doesn't have a purpose. So, they come into the local unit, some city, find problems, they record it, they write it down, they give performances, and after what happens, nothing, and then they call them what we're going to do with this, and they don't blame it, nor do they owe it, as they say. So what institutions in this country aren't doing their job? Here are no colleagues mentioned earlier, here's when you mention that some institutions don't do their jobs, then you get these violent outbursts from both the level of the president of the Republic and from other levels is whether, don't accidentally criticise an institution whether you're at risk of getting some kind of violent outburst either verbal and who knows what other. I wanted to comment, from this report, the part about local units, because often in the city council, here in particular, in the City Council of Split, we already have two mandates each year to comment on the findings of state audits and city audits, and we always actually comment on the same thing. So, there's this random spending of money, there's this, someone's commenting, sorry, so non-intentional spending of money, there's no list of property, no business premises, let's say, specifically in the city of Split, of six hundred business spaces, only 300 are covered by contract, spaces are awarded without competition, who knows how and how. So these reports we read on the city council, when we ask if anyone will be responsible for it, nothing. In one comment it is very colourful, vivid and can even be found on youtubes. With one head of a city firm, so we just asked him to look at all these findings, would someone be responsible for that? So, the dead cold man answered, so dear lady, did anyone in Croatia ever bear responsibility for anything? I'm going to find that click somewhere, so we're going to play it virally, so that's our reality where we live. Here, therefore, the financial reports of 75 local units, half of which can be shown, results are half, half of them are unconditional findings, half of them are conditional or unfavourable. 3 of the largest cities in Split, Zagreb, Rijeka with conditional opinions, especially here are the failures and irregularities in the areas of budget implementation plans, I say I am also personally and we as members of the city council warned in the city of Split. When it comes to unscheduled spending of money is not just about this current government, it dates back to the era and Kerum and Mayor Baldasar, therefore from the SDP. Whenever, whether these questions are asked, Karepovac is therefore built, is not resolved, is not settled with money but is money, hundreds of millions of kunas are spent on the west coast, monumental rent that is collected is not spent on purpose, so the property of the city of Split is not transparently shown, there is no money, lists are not available to citizens and in fact citizens are those who would be given a tool that would control property management through transparency, control of the management of taxpayers' money. Here's one more time, so the state's audit does its job, then all the institutions stop and don't do their jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7692	The next replica, the esteemed representative, excuse me, the next individual debate, the distinguished representative Marijan Pavliček.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7693	Dear Vice President HS, distinguished state auditors, colleagues and colleagues. Here, today 10 of us almost said the same thing. However, it should be repeated, if you need 100 times to change things. Personally, I think you've made a good report, exhaustively and what's very important is I really think that you're doing your job in quality and independent and that it's certainly not simple. And I also really believe that I am acting in the executive at local level, that part of the local officials when they receive certain instructions from you on certain irregularities, these same irregularities seek to be corrected as soon as possible. However, there is always the question of what is going on with those who are constantly getting conditional or even unfavourable opinions of state audits, what is happening to them? One big nothing. They do not bear almost no responsibility, and this degrades both your work and your institutions because in such cases, I fear we can freely use what, the one verse from the famous song, which is “due to your efforts by the players”. You do your job and then you should perform, inform the DORH which, unfortunately, schedules. And those who constantly break the laws have non-transparent business of JLS or public institutions or intransparently spend our money, public money, no consequence whatsoever. I'm afraid without the functioning or pro-function of the other state institutions your influence will still be more reduced to some, let's say, formal part, not some legal influence in terms of some sanctions for those who break the laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7694	Next individual debate, a respected representative named Brumnic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7695	What needs to be asked when we get these State Audit reports, then it is a question of what the State Audit is for, in fact, the purpose of that State Audit. When you ask yourself that question then the answer should be relatively simple, it should be a matter that serves the quality of political decisions on which this country and the citizens of this country should be better. It's very simple, we got a good report, we got a report that well detected things, and now the question is what according to that report is that we as an opposition, we on the other hand as a position made or what political decisions you made. The only question is whether the Croatian Government or the Ministers who work support this report and whether they want what has been observed in this report not to be found in the next report, nothing else, but that. The question is, why? As I said in my replica at the beginning of the City of Zagreb, I have read this every year for ten years, and I have to admit top-notch material, the ultimate reading to see what is happening in the City of Zagreb, as it points to and points to from year to year. Why in the City of Zagreb, the existing concessionaire, those who rule in the City of Zagreb want to extend the concession, which, as counterpart Tomašević said, is extremely expensive. We paid this concessionaire if I am not mistaken for 7 billion kuna for the first and second degree purification in the City of Zagreb. A colleague, Tomaševic, touched the State Audit report a few years ago, and I will touch what is today. He spoke about the State Audit report, which found that the profit of the concessionaire was 46%, 2019 income 338 million, profit 165, profit 48.91%. Now it is due to return a little to the previous assembly of the Parliament in which the ruling majority was almost the same as it is now. Then in this House I can say one law which is..., the Water Services Act where in Art. In the 98th century, 2nd century, it was found that the maximum profit that can be achieved in the concession for water services could be 15%, no more, 15%. I ask you, what is the City of Zagreb that had a year of time made to comply with that law? What are we here as parliamentary representatives, what has the Government, to which I have spoken several times indirectly, done to bring the City of Zagreb into line for the benefit of the citizens of the City of Zagreb? The difference of 30% is you get about a hundred and a few million kunas of what we pay or what the citizens pay for, which by law you shouldn't pay for. From this point on, I call on the State Audit to look at what the City of Zagreb is doing, what are certain ministries in whose jurisdiction is the Water Services Act, or the award of concessions, and why is what is brought into this HS not respected in the units of local self-government or companies that exist on the ground of the Republic of Croatia? The concessionaire is a company that operates on the ground of the Republic of Croatia and should comply with the laws of the Republic of Croatia. I say, that would be for the benefit of the citizens of the City of Zagreb if they would pay 100 million kuna less what they pay today without reason or illegally. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7696	Thank you. We have one replica, sorry two, Zeljko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7697	Here we have already been through several discussions and through several replicas we have heard that we have problems with the processing of leaders who actually do not respect the decisions or proposals and suggestions of audits. I will remind only the HDZ gentlemen who mentioned that we have problems monitoring the spending of funds in the pre-election campaign, that in 1999 an application was made for a system that monitored the spending of these funds and there was the possibility that the DIP would see any change directly in real time. So there was a connection to the banks and that change could be seen. Unfortunately, however, it did not suit someone, so this application has been shut down and today what happens is that simple systems designed to monitor these business changes simply do not work well. And the other thing I would like to suggest, suggest, given that these leaders of people who manage our resources are not processable, I suggest that this is prevented in a way that is done before, and not after history... of the book sent, means before business change occurs to try to follow it through the systems that allow it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7698	Time. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7699	Well, a respected colleague like I said at the beginning of my debate is all just a matter of political will for those who have a majority, nothing else. Here is a matter of political will, do we want this report that is not only this year well, it is already a few years well, I say I can confirm what I read about the City of Zagreb, that there are very precise problems. The question, what have most people done, would that not change or would that happen again next year? Such programs as you said can be done for every part of the system and I think the Minister of Finance knows more than well whether any political party stands, and any concession contract or company operating in this country respects the laws or not.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7700	The next replica, distinguished representative Tomislav Tomašević.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7701	Coliar Brumnić can you explain to the Croatian public since HDZ representatives here in the Croatian Assembly thank you for all bells Report of State Audit and claim that you really need to act more towards these reports, if you can explain what the HDZ does to the ruling majority in the City of Zagreb is doing in view of the State Audit Report just for the waste water purifier in Zagreb, which is why the Water Services Act has changed in a way that has put the maximum profit prescribed by law, which is really the rarity of what the HDZ has done in the City of Zagreb to act on these reports and that such things are no longer happening?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7702	I have to admit, we don't have answers to that. As I said in this Croatian Parliament, the ruling majority at that time passed a not bad Water Services Act that is not respected in the City of Zagreb, and the budget that brings the ruling majority of Milan Bandic and HDZ, where these millions of concessionaries are paid against the law. I am really calling on colleagues on my right now to think about how to solve this problem because I say we also point to it in the City Assembly and here in the Croatian Parliament, and I think the State Audit has pointed to this problem several times so far. I'm saying you've legally solved it only because the political will to really get rid of it seems to be pecking somewhere.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7703	Thank you. Your replicas are over. Free Done. [[/Intruder: Done.]] Dear representative Ruzica Vukovac has a final debate in front of the House Movement Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7704	... Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. In my final address in front of the House Movement Representatives' Club, I find it important to point out a few more outstanding issues. So I would briefly return to the Zagreb – Macelj highway. The audit was carried out for the period 2004 to 2018. The concession on this section lasts from 2004 to 2032, so full 28 years. It is a total of 59 kilometers of highway, 38 kilometers or 64.4 of which has already been built by the Republic of Croatia, while 21 kilometers and 35.6% respectively were to be built by a concessionary. The Republic of Croatia also takes on the compensation of the risk of falling on the highway. As there is no indication of how much the Republic of Croatia is taking over, I believe it is necessary to give us an answer to this question. On page 79 of the State Audit Office reports, it is concluded that the total amount of subsidies to be granted by the Republic of Croatia is not calculated. What exactly does that mean? Are we paying for anything? If so, the public should know how much. The Republic of Croatia is said to have paid a total of 575 million kuna subsidies by the end of 2018. We're interested in what basis. If not known, how many subsidies we have to pay in the first place. It is also said that by the end of the concession period, the Republic of Croatia should pay a little more than 1 billion kuna of VAT-based subsidies. It is unclear why the Republic of Croatia pays VAT to the concessionary rather than to the state budget. We feel here that one of the relevant people owes us an explanation. In addition, it is noted that there is no documentation prior to the conclusion of the concession agreement. Where the hell is he? Not even part of the documentation relating to the execution of the concession contract itself. It is clearly stated that the Ministry does not possess the documents on the basis of which the concession was awarded. How is that even possible, it's such an important document? The report says that the Republic of Croatia takes the risk of falling traffic and that a significant part of the project is not listed which and how much State subsidies are financed, the highway is built at prices for which there is no comparison with market prices. Unlike the Istrian Ipsilon, the audit report for this highway does not give any figures, so it is doubtless incomplete, even unacceptable. In fact, we can say that the audit control of the operation of this entity has not even been carried out. This part should absolutely be rejected and a new revision should be requested, which would give the Parliament and the public insight into the state of implementation of the concession contract, a contract which, unfortunately, they managed to even lose in our Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure. So a short address related to the résumé of events after the Office for Auditing has done its part of the work, so the municipality from which I come was a municipality which fell among the first to the examination of the State Audit, so it did not satisfy. By reading these office reports of course angry, angry, disappointed, I concluded that I had to run for office myself or do politics. I ran for office, won the 2013 elections, and in my office in the municipality, the Bible was my report from the State Audit Office. I sacrificed everything to fix those items. And yeah, I did most of it. But everything that went to the DORH like an illegally sold gas network financed by locals in their pocket, which unfortunately was sold by a former chief who later spent those funds in his campaign, fell into the water. Therefore, none of the convictions, nor any compensation to the locals of the Municipality of Velika Kopanica, which was written and submitted reports of which this esteemed body did so. I sincerely hope that we will get answers to a large number of questions raised today, and these are very important issues that today's representatives have raised here, all in order to realise those values, which are the starting points or guidelines which determine the conduct of the State Audit Office and its employees, which relate to independence, independence, integrity, and accountability and reliability in the work of the State Audit Office and their professionality and responsibility, values which we have been missing in the community lately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7705	Thank you. The next final debate is on behalf of the Representatives' Club of the Independent Lists Bridge, Honorable Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7706	Thank you very much. Here is the final in the name of the club, it should be made clear and loud that the people hear, that only in Croatia are concessions given and that the risk and cost of concessions is borne by the state and the concession fee and profit is taken by a concessionary without any compensation. This is prohibited by the European Directive of 2014 that the risk is borne by a concessionary rather than by a state. But here they only call on the EU when they pass the directives we make in the House, but this directive, although I was not exactly a supporter of EU entry in this servant way, but this directive does not call, absolutely and only in the EU, the risk of a country's concession. And in this report it's visible that it's always the state that carries the risks and basically the concessionaire has only profit and profit. And it's like everything under the law of the Republic of Croatia. When a concessionary fails, the state pays for it. But there is no such thing as the European directives called by the Government of A. Plenkovic, all governments before, there is no such thing in the EU. That's where we don't see what to do. I would say here in the end that in this report it is as visible as every year that all, I think, all conditional opinions should go to the DORH or that the DORH should adopt certain prescribed legal measures, take, however, the DORH has been compromised, we see in recent days so that everything that is brought important to the Republic of Croatia, and that the Office of State Audit and you, Mr. Auditor, cannot carry out a review of the club in Slovenia 9. Such clubs, how will you conduct the audit? How much money is added for public procurement, for work, for tunnel coloring, on the highway with a number of these jobs going on, if you can carry out the audit, tell me how, it can mean other bodies, but apparently measures break through, obviously measures break down when big fish occur because at the moment when the cat pulls out by the tail, then it turns out to be that way. In fact, what would you say in the end? When we talk about State Audit reports, we all agree here, but what I said at the beginning, I'm interested in being a parliamentary representative and the people, what after this report? The State audit shall send this to the authorities responsible for all irregularities. What are they doing? That's the key question. Only in public procurement could we tell stories. Here's the waste management, the CGO Lečevica, people's promise of money, the chief's getting paid by county money, now they haven't paid people the money promised to the people of the CGO to the owners of the country, and now it's chaos. And 30 million kunas, here you go, here's a CGO Lečevica, I don't think I know how it's done right now, do an audit, and you'll see where 30 million more went, there's a director and director, nothing's done. Here, for example. Water concessions, drinking water. Here's my Cetina for $5,000 a month, so many 3 cows in a barn drinking if you have 5,000 a month, drawing water from the purest spring, my Cetina, and earning huge profits. Now I don't know if it's Cetina or Jana, it doesn't matter at all, but here it is, and that concessionist. Holy Rock and other concessions. Agricultural land, agricultural land rental, gave those who receive a concession of agricultural land to rent and earn money, so we move on, support and incentives for agricultural land. We have never produced less in agriculture and Croatia is not self-sufficient and we have never given encouragement and support again. How is that possible? We've never imported agricultural products again, we're not self-sufficient. This corona crisis has exposed all the bad policies we have in the Republic of Croatia. Shipbuilding, how much money went into shipbuilding for purpose, did everything go for the ships, you said they didn't leave, which took place later, nothing. And all of these, Croatian forests, forests. I think we have these stories, about karst pastures, we can talk for days, days, and that's why we have 2/3 of Croatia empty. The report's well done, but in the end it's only left on the report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7707	The next final debate is on behalf of the Green-Left bloc's Green-Left Club, the distinguished representative Tomislav Tomasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7708	As far as the Green-Left bloc club is concerned, I would like to commend first of all the form of the report, it is also transparent, and the content of the report is very detailed and the work of the State Audit because we believe that the State Audit is one of the few institutions in this country doing its job well and it is a pity that there are no more consequences of political and judicial work than that because they would be very positive for Croatian society for us. So we think the State Audit with its more than 200 employees is a good comb for all these entities. I've already said we'd like to, despite knowing that there are a lot of entities that should constantly be subject to the revision that we're missing, we're missing even more of these thematic reports because when you have examples of cities, you're doing business audits, and then you have, for example, a segment, for example, a municipal water company or a sports hall that was built through a public private partnership, it's all lost. And that's why they're much better, much better, these thematic reports where you have a comparison of all the sports halls that were built after the handball championship, and then you can combine well. Same thing with utility services as water services, same thing with, for example, these highways we gave in private concessions, like the content of this report. So the thematic reports of such activities, especially when it comes to concessions on public services and on municipal services as far as we are concerned in the Green-Left bloc Club, would be something we would very much welcome to strengthen the work of the state audit in the future. In particular, because just such audits, such reports, should serve such analyses not only for judicial consequences, specifically for some local sheriffs, but also for legislative consequences. It means that we improve laws and systems when we see examples in practice that things don't work systematically. One problem is if you have one concession that doesn't work, but if you have all the concessions in that activity that don't work where it's obvious that public spending is as a private gain, that, that contracts are harmful to citizens, then it's obvious that we have a systemic problem. And then this systemic problem cannot be solved differently but through legislative amendments or by the Law on concessions, which unfortunately was not accepted by the government just last week or by doing some thematic sectoral laws such as the Water Services Act. I will look again at what almost everyone said today, and these are the highways Zagreb-Macelj and the Istrian Ipsion. Once again, several years of contracts where there is a public risk, and profit is private, something that, where we pay very large sums at the end of the budget, state or, in this case, the state budget of concessionaries with very questionable ultimately effects that cannot even be evaluated because it did not analyse what all, what risks, what benefits are expected before these concession contracts are signed because the state audit can only work post-festum means it can't actually use a state audit except that such things are prevented at some system level, changes of law or whatever. So I will only remind once again that we have actually had the same often for Zagreb-Macelj four times changed contract. It is also one of the major problems for concession contracts to be won in a public competition, and then the annexes change and actually changes the treatment of concessionaires and that is something that is also very non-transparent and contrary to the spirit of competitions where different private entities compete for these concessions, and later their conditions change. I will repeat once again that what has been concluded that no satisfactory concession activities have been fully implemented since the ministry does not have the documentation on the basis of which the concession was awarded, the Republic of Croatia has taken the risk of falling on the highway, a significant part of the project is financed from state subsidies. The highway is built at prices for which there is no comparison with the market. A similar thing with the Istrian Ipslon, the ministry does not possess the documents on which the concession was awarded, until the time of the highway audits has not been built entirely, and the payment of the loan remains largely made out of the financial contribution. Our conclusion, unfortunately, is not only that there are no political consequences for local sheriffs, but unfortunately there are very rare and legislative consequences even though we have had good examples. The Water Service Act has just been made for harmful concessions in water, and [[Intruder: Time]] concessions now prohibited by law, the privateer can no longer perform water services and it is time to learn from both mistakes and highways. [[Intruder: Time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7709	The next final debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, the distinguished representative Grozdana Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7710	Thank you very much, Vice President. So here I would once again like to highlight the importance on behalf of the HDZ Club the importance of the State Audit Office and all of it, all the quality reports and jobs you do for all of us, and I would like to point out a few more facts in this way. This is about concessions that occurred in previous periods. Here, for example. The concession for Zagreb-Macelj was adopted on 11 July 2003, meaning that it was during that period of the SDP and that concession was given for a period of 28 years. I'm not necessarily saying that something bad was done here, given that at the time, you know how access to financial markets was, and how it could have even started building highways. My colleague mentioned the same thing as all highways and how much good they brought to Croatia and Croatian tourism. If we compare that one HAC today has a budget of 2.8 billion kuna per year, then we can assume what these are amounts that are actually realised in other parts of it, thanks to the economy, precisely because of tourism and the traffic of goods. When compared to subsidizing here for this example of concession so far 575 million or a billion kuna, then compared to these turnovers and these quantities and these revenues made by our companies, then we have to ask ourselves in what way it was possible to do it at all, and here it is quite fast, and we own the entire section of the highway, there was no privatisation and there were no other shops. What I would also like to look forward to is certain that every report on the business of the cities and municipalities, and the County is very important, I would like to point out once again that the city of Zadar, for example, has an unconditional opinion, that the audit has established everything we've done, how we've done, how we've achieved certain incomes, and how we've compensated in fact requests from the state for what we haven't been able to achieve from the funds of the sale of apartments in another way, because the state has been obliged to make that part and financial damage, and for these very reasons there are still certain amounts of money that can and can be spent on those programmes and projects that are needed for social cases, but what I've repeatedly pointed out that these funds should also be allowed to invest in other purposes, and that, apart from social ones that are not so much in the city of Zadar itself and we've bought and built up a lot of housing that we've really been able to be able to use them, which we've been able to be able to be able to be able to use them to make the most of the most, which we can be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to make the most, and to make the necessary, and to make the most of the resources to make the most to make the most of the most to make the most of the most of the resourcess, to make the most of the most of the resources to work to work, to make them, to make them, to make them, to make them, to make them, to make them, to make them, to make the real, to make the most of the most of the real, to make the real, to make them, to make the most of the most of the most of the most of the most of the resources, and to make the resources, to make the real, to make the real, to make the real, and to make sure that we, and to look of the real, and to make sure that we, and to make sure that we really, to make sure that we, and to make sure that we really, and to make sure that we really, that we really, that we really, that we really, that we, that we really, that we really, that we really, that we really, that we really, that the Thus, here, it is actually the amount and source of funds from which even more high-quality development could be directed, in fact, throughout Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7711	Thank you. With this, we have exhausted the debate, thanks to Chief State Auditor Ivan Klesic with his associates, I conclude the debate, we will vote when the conditions are met. The next item of the agenda is: - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on construction products, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No 28 The proposal is made by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172, 204 and 206. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. In accordance with Article 206. The Rules of Procedure, on the occasion of the establishment of the agenda, have adopted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal by means of an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings, and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs, the Committee on Spatial Planning, Construction. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? State Secretary Zeljko Uhlir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7714	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, parliamentary representatives. The relevant Construction Products Act provides for systems for the assessment and verification of the continuity of the properties of construction products, of the actions carried out by manufacturers of construction products and of the notified and approved bodies, of the assessment and verification of the continuity of the properties, of the requirements for notified and approved bodies, of the application procedures, of the obligations of the notified and approved bodies, of the obligations and of the appointment of the technical assessment bodies, and of all these in accordance with Council Regulations of Europe, and of other questions for placing on the market and making available on the market of construction products. Changes in European regulation, this, condition and amendments to this Act, and this time the direct cause and effect are, this, the amendments, namely the adoption of two new Directives, one from March 2019, and the other from June 2019, and also the monitoring of the implementation of the existing legal framework for construction products, have established the need to prescribe the extension of deadlines for Croatian technical assessments for construction products. This Law will ensure that the adoption of a Regulation laying down the procedure for determining whether construction products in a non-compliant area which are made available on the market of our country are legally placed on the market of the Member State from which they are distributed and whether the public interests of the Republic of Croatia are adequately protected in that part. The statement of mutual recognition as well as the documentation and information resulting from the Regulation will also be provided, and all expensive measures will be taken to reduce illegal placing on the market of construction products from the non-compliant area. In short, this Law proposes to be adopted by an urgent procedure precisely because of the transposition and application of two regulations which entered into force in 2019. This Law passed the notification of the European Union, the so-called TRIS notification, certain comments were received, these comments were successfully answered, public debates were held, consent of all the authorities of the state administration and the Government of the Republic of Croatia prior to their adoption into this Croatian Parliament. This Act does not require the provision of additional financial resources in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7715	Stay, we have a few replicas. The first is Honorable Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7716	Thank you very much. Here we are talking about European directives, notifying construction products, and you are in the ministry, and I have set the entire past term where your ministry does not respect the laws of the Republic of Croatia or the EU directive. And you witnessed that I warned not to warn but to write, to speak, to propose laws, to make legal changes for teleopers to set base stations of buildings wherever they thought of breaking the laws. So we have a case at Joy in Sinj, at a bakery in Sinj, Split wherever you come to Stobreč, in Kaštel they set up base stations without permission. 90% where they think of hospitals, kindergartens and damage to our citizens. We also have solutions at the Joy at Sinj to remove the base stations, four times have been warned, the base stations are standing. So you represent a ministry that violates the law to please a foreign operator, so answer me this question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7717	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7718	Thank you. This is more of a comment than the question was because, compared to this law, the base station has no points of contact. As far as your comment is concerned, it is primarily likely that the State Inspector, not the Ministry of Construction, but there is certainly no point of contact about this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7719	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7720	The Honorable Chairman is injured. In 238, where I am clearly saying that the secretary at the ministry is competent to control the law and law-making, that the base stations are being placed where teleoperators come to mind, and he claims he's off topic. So what we're going to discuss with you on the subject and European directives when only in the EU teleopers do whatever they want, have the biggest profits and profits, and our citizens are at risk of health, no one controls, and of course spatial plans.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7721	Since this wasn't a violation of the Rules of Procedure, you get a warning. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Anka Mrak Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7722	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS. Secretary of State. It is good that we have such a law in the debate, it is good that not only is it in line with EU directives but it provides answers to certain questions. I'm interested in what is the current experience in the ministry, or do you have any information on this large field of discrepancies, did anything come into the use of the Republic of Croatia, any problems? Of course, the inspection went to the State Inspector, but I think you have good cooperation and good field data, was there really a problem with construction products? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7723	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7724	Thank you very much for this question. There are no problems recorded, and what is happening now, which is the subject of these amendments to the law, is actually a tightening of the placing of construction products on the market and the adoption of a completely new rule that has never existed so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7725	The last replica of the esteemed representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7726	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, Secretary of State. I was going to ask this question when we were on the board, and I didn't, and I missed asking you about it in earlier laws. In this law, we amend the Law on construction products relating to the handling and placing on the market of construction products relating to the non-compliant area. Otherwise... state of the market if you can explain to me how Croatia controls the market for construction products coming from third countries? So, I'm not talking about EU Member States, I'm not talking about a harmonised area relating to EU Member States, but what kind of procedures do construction products that come into Croatia and that are placed on the market of the Republic of Croatia make up an integral part of future buildings and come from third countries? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7727	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7728	Construction products coming from third countries or outside the EU must have a declaration of products that are in accordance with European regulations and, if they do not have such a declaration or CE marking, cannot be used in our buildings or buildings.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7729	Thank you. We don't have any more replicas. Do the Committee’s rapporteurs want to take the floor, the Committee on Legislative Affairs and Spatial Planning and Construction? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The first to hold the debate was registered by the distinguished representative Anka Mrak Taritaš Club of Representatives IP, Smart and GLAS.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7730	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS. Secretary of State. So, before us is the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Construction Products, the first and second reading, or the final proposal, that means otherwise when the codes of the PZ or compliance with certain EU-related regulations are then indeed the law has the possibility to be in the first and second readings. Otherwise, in the previous Parliament's meeting, there were exceptions, and I hope that in this assembly, too, it will be an exception, but no matter what, we in the Party's Club of Representatives with Name and Surname, Smart and Glass will support this law. We will support for a number of reasons, so it is that certain things at EU level are tightened, and since they are sharpened there then and we are entering our legislation, we are installing them. What's important to say and emphasize, the building is one specific branch, it's the first one to feel recession, but it's somehow the first one to feel and get out of that recession. There's always some trouble that can create an opportunity. The difficulties that the City of Zagreb has had, a serious problem with an earthquake that was more than 6 months ago, can be created for an opportunity that can really build momentum in the City of Zagreb and that is also evident in connection with the construction operation. I am sorry that it is not, that it is going slowly, which will continue slowly, but it is the decision of the ruling ones, and they will one day answer, or have an opportunity to explain why they decided to do so. Construction products industry is an extremely important industry. One of the big swings that was related to energy efficiency. I have to remind you when energy efficiency projects started back then, and they started five to six years ago, then you didn't even have enough construction firms to deal with it. And the same thing when it comes to building materials because you really had a problem getting certain materials, so you waited up to 3-4 months for them to come at all. All this talk that came with Covid in 2020, but it's still going on, so we'll see how it ends, a few things have been done. The first thing is that really when it comes to the construction of parts of people who worked today in some other EU countries will be available and will be able to work there, and part, and related to the construction industry or construction products will certainly encourage and say that all countries should nevertheless make sure that some of it is in their own area. Here this law which is actually determined how, as with the products that are in the so-called. Inconsistencies. We often have in our parliament some laws that change and complement and then we have some grudges and we say the check a little bit why we change and supplement so much law, and this is the opportunity when the EU's conscious fact has, too, decided to tighten things up, or some things, especially when it comes to this uncoordinated area, and to allow each country to really care about what kind of construction products, or building material, will be built into its buildings. What must be the interest of all of us, and I am sure that it is the interest of all of us that these construction products really meet the regulations of the Republic of Croatia, that through them we protect the first and basic health of our citizens, or our health and everything else. You have seen, we have had opportunity to see what the topic of climate change and the theme of the Green European Plan is. Among other things, the Green European Plan is a large part of the new materials, the use of new materials, the great emphasis is on this, we really need to take account of the recycling of existing materials. This means that the existing, when something collapses, existing concretes, existing bricks, existing material, so everything that is acceptable from the aspect of environmental protection, recycling, that some new products are created from it. I am sure that this is one of the opportunities that Croatia should recognize that indeed everything that is built in today, and what is built in, which is, from the aspect of environmental protection, acceptable to use it through the process for something new. This first began, or one of the first things that we saw being used, they were related to a particular galantery and equipment in the roads, then we saw that, that the asphalt was cut, and then it was used for something new. So, if clothes can be used in new production and new clothes create new clothes from the existing clothes, it is even simpler when it comes to this very, very important industry of construction material or construction product where we need to create an opportunity from that. One of the special emphasis when it is here in the light of this law is also said when it comes to construction products, that it is related to this law and the regulation that will be adopted so that I do not convince it now, but it is important to point out that it also simplifies the maintenance and reconstruction of buildings. The earthquake that struck the City of Zagreb pointed to several things. One of the things is that we should be responsible for the property of our own, but also for the common one, not only in the sense that it is provided but also in the sense that you have to maintain it continuously, that as you maintain your apartment so that you have to maintain common areas of buildings, that these common parts of the building and the outer envelope, and also the roof, and also the basement, and that you have to invest constantly and really keep an eye on it. And since the reconstruction is mentioned here, a lot of buildings in the City of Zagreb will need to be reconstructed after the earthquake. Reconstitute with new knowledge, new materials and in a new way. When it comes to material, Croatia should therefore be held accountable. I know a number of cases where, especially in the period when Croatia had just entered the EU, it had been tried from different third countries, with third countries and some neighbouring countries, and the construction material was imported very suspiciously, and this was dealt with relatively quickly. It has been decided that they should have been given a special label, that they had to respond to compliance with European norms or standards which, obviously, with the experience that the European Union has decided to do so, I would somehow say to support or strengthen certain frameworks when it comes to building material. And it is extremely good that Croatia has joined this very quickly for the simple reason that the interest of all of us should be that in the building or the complete construction industry we use as high-quality materials and construction products as possible, assuming that we are not really rich enough to do it multiple times or to use that saying “I’m not rich enough to buy cheap things”. This is not even about cheap things but about building materials that are the most acceptable at the moment, and we need to take care of the protection of our citizens and the protection of nature and the environment without saying that climate change is something that we need to take care of. We're a small country, there's four million of us. But to make each of us do something a little bit related to climate change, we've all made something big together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7731	Thank you. The next debate is on behalf of the House Movement Representatives Club, the distinguished representative Davor Dretar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7732	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here we are once again in an urgent procedure, as we also have many amendments and additions, and we are harmonising them with European directives or norms by an urgent procedure. But here I have also brought a few extracts from a document that is one of the basic documents of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. one of the fundamental documents of the European Union itself. Let me briefly quote articles 34, 35 and 36, and I'll try and explain it later. Articles 34, 35 say that quantitative restrictions on imports or exports and all measures having the same effect are prohibited among Member States. So clearly we have to play fair. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. and, however, that these prohibitions or restrictions must not be a means of arbitrary discrimination or a disguised restriction of trade between Member States. Why am I actually harassing you here with these dry parts of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union articles? It is clear to us in the Homeland Movement that we are members of a large European family. That's what we wanted. This is what we deserve at the end and, of course, we are obliged to respect all these provisions and the market of all goods, as well as the building material that we are talking about here today for all Member States without restrictions and, of course, for those that come to us outside the European Union countries. But let me dream a little. I love to dream and think about building a house, a residential building, or a building that we need, of course, a beautiful pile of building material. First of course, after we solve the paperwork, we need to dig up a big hole called the foundation. Now, I would like a truck manufactured in Vinkovci to come to that site, for example, to have construction machinery produced in Čakovec or Gospić, so that all our workers are well-paid to work. So let's say they use some of the construction materials produced here in Croatia. Unfortunately, through my brief address, I want to say that we are deeply concerned about the fact that we are producing some bit of construction material and perhaps the simplest. So we've got asphalt bases, we've got some cements, some concretes, and unfortunately they're mostly foreign property, and we've got, unfortunately, and now the opportunity for colleague Mrak Taritash is talking about energy recovery, and I spent ten years ago doing an energy renovation on my home or so-called "colloctually," I was doing a façade of so-called. Styrofoam. I noticed that almost nothing when I received an offer from a contractor almost nothing was produced in Croatia. Even those ridiculous little plastic screws with which the sterofoam boards are attached to the very wall of the house are not produced in Croatia. Colors, bows, shrubs, which I know all you don't all come from outside. How are we going to implement an energy reconstruction program if we're going to buy all the goods, all the construction material in another country? What have we done? There is also a mention of the reconstruction of Zagreb, which will cost 42 billion kuna, according to some estimates. So more than 5 and a half billion euros. Okay, maybe we'll get that money, we'll borrow that money, we'll be loaned by the European Union. But only to get that money out again because we're going to buy goods from manufacturers from other countries. So let me dream a little bit that when we build Croatian houses, Croatian buildings, Croatian museums, Croatian theatres, whatever we want to use Croatian product, we use Croatian brick, Croatian rag, cement. Here's to say, the other day I had to change the socket in the house, it's just old, it's worn out. We no longer have a Croatian producer of real, large, serious electrical material. We used to have an Elka who worked in three shifts and exported 60% of her production all over the white world. Today, on Zagreb's Žitnjak, where Elka used to stand with 3 and a half thousand workers growing weeds of 2 metres, and we buy imported goods in Croatian shops, sometimes extremely suspicious qualities. We must not forget another aspect of such an easy-on to import. Are we exactly sure that what we are installing in our houses, where our children, our students or any satisfactory quality will come, of course there is a respected Mr. Secretary of State, and all the state inspections that we will believe in in the letter of this Law, or the proposal to amend and supplement the law to carry out complete and fair control and that because, of course, sometimes when we remember cases in Zagreb, Vrbani III when we saw problems with drinking water supply, or that even that drinking water in the households was not, I will say toxic, but seriously polluted, for what?, because there were some problems with sewer or water installations and pipes. Now, that's about it, when you can make that house, you should put something in there, not to tell you that we continue to cut Croatian forests hard and cheerfully, we export logs to European Union countries and then we buy furniture from there, sometimes even an extraordinary collection, that's another injustice that cries to the sky. But we are largely aware that this is adapting to the European Union's norms and the Homeland Movement will still be a little bit more consulted, so we will see how we are set up here, whether we will be abstention or support these amendments and additions to the law. In case we're restrained, not because we'd play something here, but simply because we think we're allowing it or if we don't do anything else and we're looking at the collapse of the domestic industry and the building materials, we're watching imports erupt, and we know how imports are disastrously affecting every country's economic balance. The national movement of course knows that we are part of the vast and equal market of the European Union, we understand and that the time has passed for state interventionism in the economy, of course I do not advocate that the state opens up factories, that the state is opening up trade, of course the state has always been a bad master, we all know that, but I invite you to more favourable legal and financial frameworks to raise Croatian production from the ashes, and then one day we build a Croatian house of Croatian materials and sit in it and eat Croatian lunch on the Croatian table. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7733	Thank you. The next debate on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, the distinguished representative of Zvona, called Brumnic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7734	Dear colleagues and colleagues. Here... The speaker before me touched a topic that is extremely interesting when it comes to this, he was talking about production, and I'm actually going to try and say 'here' is not the problem of the European Directive, it is, as far as I understand the secretary of the ministry already applies, that we are discussing it doesn't mean anything, we will apply it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What's the problem here that the gentleman pointed out before me is actually creating an environment. Now a little something about that creation environment. This creation environment is actually what is the policy task, and then we start by emergency procedure today to discuss this, by emergency procedure we will vote on, and what is urgent here?, it is urgent that today is 30/09/2020, and that this European Regulation on mutual recognition of goods that are legally placed on the market in another European Union member of the European Union was adopted on 19 March 2019, a period of a year and a half. The very application of this Decision, meaning since when are we applying it in fact since 19 April 2020, means good six months already apply it in the country, and then the question of what have we been waiting for?, what has the Ministry been waiting for?, what has the Government been waiting for that we have not taken over?, and we need to take it over, is not at all controversial that it should be taken over because this Regulation is good, this Regulation gives to those who are building or buying products greater safety, greater equality of quality and man would say a better building in the future, or building. But what's the problem with us here in the Croatian Parliament is the fact that we don't know what we want, we take on good regulation as a society, but we don't create an environment, and it doesn't actually destroy the environment, on the one hand our production, and on the other hand it destroys, I would say the environment, because when you look at all the European directives that are recently being adopted in Europe, they show that those who bring it to Europe know where they're going, that they know what they want in their countries and they want in fact one circular economy, one economy that leads to the product that you produce, you know how you're going to use it optimally and how you're going to do it in the future, let's say you throw it or put it in waste or what you're going to do with it. That's what Croatia doesn't know, that's what Croatia doesn't think about. When asked on the Committee, the secretary of the ministry said "this is not what this law is about, this is what some other law deals with," well, we don't have here, we don't talk about this other law, we don't have a strategy, we're going to bring this directive because it needs to be passed, it's good, but again, as I was saying last time we took over the Internet Trade Directive that we didn't create an environment that our producers here can do quality trading or deliver their goods out, so we don't know what we're going to do now. We will take on a good directive, we will buy a better quality product from Europe because this directive will enable us, but what we are in charge of doing, which is to create an environment for our producers and our consumers so that they can participate in the competition, we will not do. I have nothing else to call here but for the government or the ministry to sit down, think about what our goals are, and that when we take on such directives, we can then coordinate all segments of the legislation. We've been waiting here for a year and a half, I can't believe that in a year and a half, a good minister, a secretary of the ministry or two ministers, two secretaries of the ministry couldn't coordinate the regulation and come before this HS with a complete solution. I'm going to finish what Mrs. President said. Dark-Taritash, he says I'm not rich enough to buy cheap. No. I'm not rich enough to do every single thing three or four times what we do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7735	Thank you. The next debate is on behalf of the Green-Left bloc's Club of Representatives, the distinguished representative Tomislav Tomašević.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7736	I must say that there is not much debate in this law because, although it is said that we are in line with the directive here, we are actually in line with the regulation. And when we comply with the regulation, otherwise the regulations also have the opportunity to be directly applicable, however sometimes it is necessary, however, to make some legislative changes in order to apply them better, and in this sense we have nothing to debate and think about because we need to transpose it somehow into legislation. What I must also say, and I really don't understand, because the regulation was adopted by the Council of the EU, in fact not by the Council of Europe, as it is often spoken wrongly in the debate, in March 2019. As already mentioned, it's been a year and a half, but that's a minor problem for me. What's a much bigger problem for me and what's really frustrating me, and I think about the content of this, we don't have anything to argue about these amendments to the law because there's going to be quality, standardisation of the quality of construction products. This is what I believe in everyone's interest, from the perspective of quality and standardisation, and even from preventing some unfair competition for the Croatian construction sector, because especially when we talk about these non-compliant areas or countries, third countries that place their construction products on the Croatian market, we easily come to unfair competition and very questionable quality of these construction products which, I say, also compete in an unfair way with the construction manufacturing industry in Croatia. That's what he's trying to prevent with just like this, with standardizations like this. This is certainly what I think is important in the context, so if you want to rebuild the City of Zagreb or those 40 billion kunas that we need to spend in one way or another it is very important what kind of construction products we will use in this renovation, will they be good enough quality, as we do, God forbid if there are any new natural disasters, in order for this damage to be as little as possible. However, let me get back to the procedure. What bothers me especially is that last Friday this law was included in the agenda and it was an emergency procedure. Because this law has a P.Z.E. code. the proponent, since it is a matter of harmonisation with the EU acquis, has the right to request that it be followed by an emergency procedure, i.e. to bring together the first and second readings. The Regulation was adopted in March 2019. It started with the application of this Regulation in a way that they are obviously some kind of legislative i.e. The draft amendments to the law were launched in the fall of last year. In December of last year, consultation with the interested public lasted a month. Since it is a non-controversial law, there have been as many as 0 comments on these amendments to the law, 0 comments in a month of consultation with the interested public in December last year. We are today in September, 9 months after these amendments to the law were not found in the legislative procedure and an emergency procedure is required. If it was supposed to be an emergency procedure I expected it to come in February, for example, it would be more appropriate. As a matter of fact, I think this is an abuse that automatically all the rules that are in line with the EU acquis are put under emergency procedure. I would like it to stop because, and if an emergency procedure is really necessary, then let the promoter explain what he was waiting for 9 months to put it into the legislative process and that he and that he must now unite the first and second readings. So, and I don't have any problem with the content of the law, I don't see that there's much we can do about it, not with the amendments, not with any of the amendments, not with any further EU regulation, but I'd really like not to see every law that has a P.Z.E. code go by. by emergency procedure, and if it goes, then let it be explained why the executive government, or government that is otherwise the government of continuity, we don't have a new government, after the elections we have a government of continuity, we have a ministry of continuity, we have a State Secretary of Continuity and we would like to explain what was waiting for the 9th month. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7737	Thank you. The next debate is on behalf of HDZ Representatives' Club, distinguished representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7738	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, the Honorable MPs and the MPs. We will support the amendments and additions of the Construction Products Act in the HDZ Club regardless of what the emergency procedure is. First of all, I must say that when it comes to the Government of Continuity that the Government that preceded Mr. Tomašević claims to be... its continuity was in that term almost 10% of the law proposed here in the ordinary procedure. The emergency procedure applied exclusively to laws which comply with the European Union and to any other law. Even in this same assembly, we discussed in the regular procedure and the laws that we confirmed certain international conventions, which we could not significantly influence. And we discussed such laws in the regular procedure. As far as emergency law is concerned, a very, very small number of laws are coming to us in an emergency procedure without them being able to say that they would be in regular procedure because they are not laws that we are harmonising with the European Union. It's very small, and I'm saying that maybe on the fingers of one hand, we could determine what those laws were, what they were. So I don't see any particular need here to stress the fact that this law is passed in an emergency procedure. The more we talk about relatively professional law, the more important objections we wouldn't even have. We are talking about compliance with the European directive that we must transpose into our legislation and for which a public debate with the interested public has been held for a period of 6.7 months. I think the public hearing was held at the end of last year. In the meantime, she was if I remember the winter break well. We worked very quickly under special conditions and came to this choice, a summer break. I do not see what crime it is that we should now criticise this law or set out a special view of the inappropriateness of the arrival of such a law in an emergency procedure. He and I can't be in an emergency procedure when I say we can't change him. Could it have been two months ago, three months ago I think at this point it's all one thing. The government discussed it and proposed a law last week, actually. Otherwise I am the law when I talk about it, we brought it here in 2013 we remember here in the Parliament when we discussed it and in the meantime it was changed four times. Twice, this is the third time because of the coordination, and we have changed it because of the fact that the State Inspectorate was founded by the State Inspectorate of the Affairs of the Inspectorate, the building inspection which is responsible for the implementation of this law, we have transferred it from the Resort Ministry which, until... either in which the inspection was transferred to the State Inspectorate. So this is the 4th time that we are amending this law and it is good to bring it into line with the European Directive because I think that this is how we are actually protecting the economic interests of Croatia or Croatian entrepreneurs or construction product manufacturers in the Republic of Croatia. Because a construction product, as the law itself says, is a product or set of products placed on the market to be installed permanently in a building or parts thereof and whose properties have an impact on the properties of the building in relation to the basic requirements of the building. These basic building requirements are prescribed by the Construction Act, which lists 7 basic building requirements, so it is very important to regulate the market for construction products and when it comes to harmonised areas defined by regulations, but also a non-harmonised area which we now further regulate by this law in order to say again protect the interest of the Republic of Croatia. First of all, I have also set up a replica for Mr. Secretary of State in order to protect Croatian producers from those producers who... from third countries who, by what procedure, must be prescribed to place such products on the market in the Republic of Croatia, and this is just before Mr. Secretary of State made it clear. So, this law that we are now harmonising is primarily in the interest of the Republic of Croatia, regardless of what we have heard earlier, that we are blindly implementing European Union regulations here, but we are doing this primarily for reasons that often these construction products that are placed on the market of Croatia and come from third countries can be cheaper, they can be more unquality, they can be the basis for protecting health and the environment significantly more dangerous than those products that come and which are prescribed and produced in countries that are members of the European Union whether that is the product that is in a harmonised or uncoordinated area. I would say just a few more words, and this is what Mrs. Mrak Tatitas urged me to say, there is now no one who spoke about the importance of construction, the importance of building activity in the Republic of Croatia. I must say, therefore, that for the first 6 months of GDP growth, there has been some support in these construction activities, and although behind us is the closure of the Croatian economy as we called it the Loock down in March and April, in May in those 6 months which are behind us is a larger amount of construction work which is one of the essential components of the Croatian gross social product for 3.1 compared to the same 6 months last year, which was a record year, it seems to me when it comes to the scale of construction works. Therefore, it is very important to edit the construction sector when it comes to the Croatian economy and encourage the development of the Croatian economy. I am convinced that these other 6 months when we have not closed down the Croatian economy will further contribute to the state of GDP or to a smaller decline than the 9.4% declared GDP decline, which we have established and predicted by adopting the state budget rebalancing in April this year. It is therefore very important to present the role of Croatian construction in terms of both the number of employees and the implementation of a number of large ones, above all, of projects financed by EU funds. 90% of all construction works seem to me during 2018 and '19. the year when it relates to public investment was financed by EU funds or by EU funds. I am convinced that now these 22 billion kunas that expect us through the multi-annual financial envelope and through the funds that are being helped to recover the Croatian economy will further contribute to the development of construction, and construction itself, as I said earlier, will significantly affect, on, on a gross social product in the Republic of Croatia. Here, in this sense, how this law contributes to the regulation of this construction market, we are very much guarding and caring for Croatian manufacturers of construction products, above all, in the part we are talking about in the non-compliant area, because we at the HDZ Representatives' Club support the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7739	Thank you. The next debate is the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, Honorable Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7740	Thank you very much. I will start with the words of my colleagues Bačić, protecting Croatian producers, don't protect them anymore because they are gone, unfortunately in very small numbers. The Tribals have long been protected by Croatian producers, and I have memorized the statement by Minister Vrdoljak Ivan, otherwise the party leader from the esteemed secretary, the state secretary, our rapporteur here, who spoke to us here in front of the promoter, that Croatia will arrange as well as the organized JANAF. So you're talking about Croatian producers on this regulation that regulates the construction of these products that are essentially in line with the EU regulation. So I'm the first to be more quality products, better products in the building to protect mainly domestic production, but the question remains of what remains of this domestic production, if I always remember one of the key and biggest projects of building highway A1 Split – Zagreb or Zagreb – depending on where we are looking. That's when the Split Irony collapsed, for example. which had its own construction product, however, did not invest one kilo in either the viaduct or the tunnels, I don't know everything that goes, bridges, but with the imports of iron from Turkey, and at that time purchased raw materials in the Republic of Croatia and ships and tankers was sent to Turkey that raw material bought as this waste. In this law to say, in the ministry at this time when we are talking about the dangers of human, animal, environment, construction products, I must mention that in the Republic of Croatia they are not the same law, no matter what we bring here this regulation, they are not the same law. I mentioned what's in your secretary of state's office, I know you're busy with your phone, but just to hear the voice of the MPs, it would be good if you were part of the ruling majority and if you came here it would be polite to listen to the parliamentary representatives, but in a continuity where you were with SDP Ivan Vrdoljak, later and now, to hear the voice of the people who took over the night of the teleoper's base station and who threaten their health. When we talk about health protection, and in this law we talk about building material, we must also talk about what is in the ministry's area if we are to comply with EU regulations. Why doesn't the Republic of Croatia only tribune building permit for station setting? Why do teleopers in the Republic of Croatia have the highest profit, HT, Deutsche Telecom? The highest profit, 42% and less than 20% in the EU. You know why? Is it why the system went down yesterday? You know why? Because the Croatian state did not protect its national resources created by our citizens. And now more base stations that threaten their health, schools, kindergartens, hospitals, set up base stations. Or example we are referring to this regulation, colleague Bačić, why we are talking about protection, to keep building material safe for the health of people, animals and so on. How is it possible why, for example, is a 5G moratorium in Brussels, I am interested in the example, and we are all calling for Brussels. Why is it a moratorium? Because the mayor and those people who decide there are expected to see health effects, if health is above all. Now we're wearing masks, which is why, for health reasons, I probably don't know why anymore. One day you can wear, the other day you can't, the third day the farmer can't fertilize, the fourth day laughs, the next day you don't know, one day I can't go to school, the next day I can't, we don't even know what it's for. But if health is a priority, what this regulation requires is that construction material be a protection of health and the environment, which is why in a foreign investor, such as the teleoperators in the Republic of Croatia behave as they behave, what they don't behave, I'm not the one to stop development, however, but let the teleopers behave like in countries where they come from, no less or less. I ask you, four times in 2014 it came that the base station was illegally set up, you in cooperation with the competent, inspection that was also in place to the throat you do not want to tear down that base station. For what? Here today were these two laws, I am yes, today it was the government's law on building changes, where I asked that teleopers have to have a building permit for base stations, as well as in other states. In the EU alone, we are not subject to a construction permit in Croatia. They're a good sponsor of teleopers. They are big advertisers in the media, that if everyone is going to speak against them by counterpart Bačić, why would they speak to me against teleoperators, nor am I speaking against them, but they should be favored in Croatia because they are great advertisers, they are monopolies. We're the only ones who need to be asked to act like they're in the states where they come from. However, these people in a moment, so there are them in Zagreb in many places, the base stations are illegally placed, people overnight to windows, on cultural goods. The fortress on Klis, Sibenik, numerous fortresses are like the decoration of a huge base station. We don't even know how to protect our cultural well-being, let alone the health of people. In church bell towers, even priests in church bell towers, hide the bell tower. What's to hide it for? If our priority is health, we stopped the entire economy because of the crown, life stopped at one point except Club 9 in Slavonska and similar in Slovenia, that radio club colleagues Boris the ministers were doing neatly butkovic, they were doing it all the time playing the card, they were then the only ones privileged and could do it. The farmer shouldn't have gone to the vineyard, the field. If this is the case I'm asking if we're making regulations, if we're going to bring them in to praise the president and the presidency at the end of the term, that we've passed a thousand regulations and a directive, then what is the meaning of this House, what is the point? We must be equal in the EU. And why are we not respected secretary of state answer me that question? Why are you terrorizing citizens of the Republic of Croatia by foreign teleopers? Why can I place them on a chimney in the middle of the town of Sinj on an object that is not intended, in violation of the spatial plans, in violation of the... city of Sinj, as well as Zagreb, so Zadar, so Sibenik, Split, Varazdin. In Varazdin, here's the mayor you have, a huge problem and even the HDZ organized the stands, and I gave the law here in the last term, your parliamentary deputies voted against that law to have a building permit and to respect spatial plans, and you organised in the Varazdin stands two days earlier. And your fellow parliamentary representative from Varazdin votes against the area of Varazdin from your organization based there. This is not a question of HDZ, SDP and Mosta, this is not a question of the Croatian Association for the Protection of Electromagnetic Emissions so that the mayor can remember more easily if you have a problem with the base station in Zapresic, Zagorje, in Slavonia, people call everyone. If we're equally legal, I'm asking a key question here, no one is against technology development, so I have a cell phone, but here I'm wondering who's going to answer them why, say, in Brussels 5G put a moratorium on certain cantons in Switzerland, in Slovenia moratorium. What's with the moratorium? I want to tell you why. Because people are thinking about seeing health effects and this law and this regulation is about building material also because of health effects. But if we're just going to bring this regulation to cover to protect our domestic producers, we haven't protected them yet, we could have protected them, and so far, we shouldn't have imported the iron for installation into the highway from Turkey, we had a Split Irony, we could have saved it. But the import lobby did its job, so he destroyed that hardware store and that's a fact. At this point, we respected state secretary, I, as Parliament's representative, are looking for answers, which is why the example teleoperator of Radosća near Sinj, the base station which has four times had to be taken down where it means illegally placed, here in Zagreb people are protesting all over Croatia for the behaviour of the teleoper. Which is why construction permits are not needed in the Republic of Croatia and only in the Republic of Croatia, only in Serbia-Montenegro, which are countries outside the EU, require a building permit. Do we not want to protect ourselves from the health of our people but only favor foreign... foreign profits, and who knows... gets in the pocket from our own. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7741	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, distinguished representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7742	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Bulj was injured by an officer. In 238, he was also known as the National Tribunal to hurt numerous Croatian construction products producers in Croatia, from the construction desk, roof coverings, ceramics producers, state furniture producers, PVC carpenters, a large number of such manufacturers in Croatia exist despite the position of his colleagues, Bulja that Croatia is completely impoverished when it comes to construction activity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7743	We have another breach of Rules of Procedure Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7744	My colleague Bačić was injured by an article. In 238, did he now list all the products from ceramics to I don't know the tile, everything that's being produced. Unfortunately, don't protect them anymore, if you protect them like this, there won't be a grain of dust left on the ice, don't protect them like this anymore. And don't just copy these regulations and work the opposite. And your teleopers are exactly how you managed the Republic of Croatia and what they're doing to you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7745	We are going to individual debates, Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7746	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, here I think this law has caused a debate, no matter what it may seem banal, it may even be strange in its name, the bill of amendments and additions to the Law on Construction Products, and we've heard one letter or a lecture from colleagues of Bulja about base stations that have nothing to do with this, but here we've listened a thousand times what he thinks, even though I don't think they're exactly reading the data. As far as this law is concerned, in an emergency procedure which would only... I think it is simply in 14 articles the application of the directive that we need to ensure that this EU passport for construction products meets what we expected when we entered the EU, we wanted rules, a regulated system, an orderly state in which everyone is known to behave and that what we get as a product seems to be what we want or be at least as valuable as the other citizens in the EU. So this law, with its application, clearly said what went into Croatia by 1.7.2013, was worth something by 2016, something by 2019, but basically today we are in 2020, so everything has to have a certain level of marking, that's the CE mark, for those who sometimes buy construction material, know what they buy because if it's not there, obviously it's a product that might not have been on the market. If we look at the tag under which it marks the year, whether it's cement, glue and any other product, bricks or I don't know what else, it's clear that someone can get us something a little older and then it certainly won't fit the characteristics we want to install in our building. I think that the Republic of Croatia in that area does indeed do a lot of things in relation to what they had until they joined the EU, that what is on the market corresponds to the quality that all other EU countries have. When we talk about a non-harmonised space, i.e. The countries of our neighbours, we may think of BiH, Serbia, etc., which are not members of the EU, it is possible that certain products that should be in line with this law, but also with all other certificates, let's call them that, not only when we talk about the construction product but all other types of products that bear such a CE marking. Now, we've heard today again the underestimation of this country where nothing is produced, agriculture doesn't work, our tourism is at 50%, and then some income is collected, or there's a certain GDP in the 100% amount? So what do we do besides all that if there's nothing? And that's not true. So in Croatia there is a construction industry, there is, we have 3 cements. Do we have them? I think we got 'em. Cemex, Nasha cement, Holcim. Well, these are cementers that are very important objects in our region that produce the most basic substance that we need to build at all. What's the problem? We have problems with iron, we certainly don't make it as we once did enough, and it's certainly solved in some other markets, but everything else, wood, we have, we have production, we have processing, so I think why are we constantly underestimating our country and all the people who are doing something in this country and trying to achieve at least in the space of construction product or material? Well, in electric cables and anything, so there's no stronger I don't know the factories than this one that recently even restored its drives, I think Elka is here from Zagreb. So these are certified, high-quality companies that can do everything they do and any other state or any other state I don't know, pipes or anything else we produce, brick, chip, etc., so at least that's in the Republic of Croatia. And we're the state that's building. Well, all our personal property is the most valuable property because we've been creating it for years, saving in different ways etc., so each Croat has something of its own living space or at least something at sea or on the continent, etc., so it's been created for years and years in this country and not everything has been created on imports. That we want to have some other materials or better that come from other countries because they look nicer to us, etc., but we can't say that we don't produce ceramics. Why aren't we producing anything? Or agriculture, she doesn't do anything. It is not true and such discussions should be answered, colleague Bulj, in a way that there is and that is the 80% that we talk about when we talk about the value of GDP if it is 20% tourism. So someone in that space in the Republic of Croatia is doing something and it's not good to underestimate these people, and it's also by discussing a law like this.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7747	Thank you. We have one replica, the esteemed representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7748	Thank you. Comrade Boric, I agree with you. Unlike the shipbuilding that was when it came to the Republic of Croatia, we were placed at the very top 300 years ago by world shipbuilding, yet in this final product we were largely building with import materials. When it comes to construction in Croatia, the situation is quite different and many Croatian manufacturers of construction products exist, alive and when one building is built in Croatia, it is possible to use very large percentages of construction products coming from Croatia, so I agree with you, this law should help to preserve them and them from unfair competition, and I think that this law is in great part and that one protection can be realised.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7749	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7750	Thank you very much. My colleague Bačić, here in Rijeka yesterday we had the handover of a ship to a Canadian orderer after almost 427 days of blocking the account of that same shipyard, I say with the government's efforts and those who finished it and built it and who still have several ships on orders that want to finish, it is clear what we want. Metal, steel and iron is a problem, but when we had the ironworks, then on the other hand there was protection of nature, what about it? And today when you have a quarry, protection of nature. And that's one mineral we need in the building. We have quarrys, I say, we have cementers, we have everything, but when we get to what we use, then we have a problem of some other nature. The construction industry in the Republic of Croatia has its place, it didn't come from this country of ours, the Republic of Croatia, it came from a long time ago, in that other country, but it continued and it does its job for the benefit of the people who want to use it. I think we in the building have something to say and that shows a number of infrastructure projects that are being built not now but over the past 30 years.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7751	Time. Next individual debate, distinguished representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7752	Thank you very much. There is little left to say after fellow Boric, such an inspired speech exactly in accordance with the prescribed law, really few words remain, but I will mention a few things, of course, I must mention, I have seen that here is a great concern for domestic producers and I am pleased. I'd like to work on Ciglana Sinj, to produce bricks, cartridges that have been, uncut by what we're importing now, but the only thing left is the miners that haven't been recovered, and now it's basically wild dumps, unfortunately. And as far as I'm concerned, here's the mention, and ceramics he mentioned, what he mentioned, I have no idea, and iron is the same thing you need to have in so it's not from the Split Ironworks but it's... It was on the highway, there were, we're importing from the Turkish, import lobby of course, the Split Ironworks have failed and workers who had their.../incomprehensible/... and technologically developed ironworks, people have received their wages, failed. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Who cares, and talk about maybe... Perhaps my colleague Boris forgot, I'm sorry that he came out, how he's been carefully preserved from, so we can't talk here, about this, this regulation that we're going to bring where we're going to target a construction product that we're going to be on the market to protect the environment, our health, animal health, even so it says there that people, and in fact, under cover that we're going to protect domestic production. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If you're going to protect her like you've done before and if you think this paper that we're about to say will protect my domestic production, then don't protect her anymore. You don't... Whatever you touch falls apart, step back, don't move into it, eh, don't look at it because what you look at, it rots. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that's the problem. I turn around,... , The Dalmatian factory, the women left without pay, the terror was, then I protested, I don't know, my colleague Bačić was then in power, coming to Sinj, the workers of Dalmatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I had to be brought in, car transport, you looked, you looked at yourself, you fell apart, no more transportation, you looked, you fell apart, I'm talking about my end, probably other parts. And speaking of the Split swimming pool,... And now you're still saying we're making this regulation to protect domestic production. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The only thing we have is the exploitation fields, mostly the areas of the Dalmatian Burn, examples. Production of quality energy, it is also yours, the representative of the respected secretary of state made it possible, those wind power plants in Padenjene,... The dinar vittar is blowing, it's not stopping. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Kappa Kuna, a drop of kuna from their citizens' pockets, of course, a drop of kuna from their citizens' pockets. So you saw what was the thing? And the minister is Coric's signature without remorse, without any problem. And that's what citizens pay a billion and a half kuna a year in their pocket. In 2015 passed the Law on Renewable Energy, countered at the last session by the then Government, which was then headed by Zoran Milanovic. Is that true? Is it... coalition partner, is he gone? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's how you kept power, to the detriment of our citizens. So don't protect anything else, he says to protect our products. So he mentions the woods, mentions the woodworking industry. So from Gorski Kotar, so many forests, so many sawmills, so many quality people, so many traditions, the only thing we drive to Italy, our people who have produced there, and there's an extra value that sells to us goes away. That's not good. It's not good. If we think that this regulation on the protection of construction material that will be determined by the quality it must have, that's where we're wrong, and that's what's killing us, these reflections of Brussels, and then I'm talking about teleopers, they're being swindled. And that's why they're distracted because they can't be mentioned against teleopers, and they have one defensive mechanism, you know. He's against development, he's beaten down from Sinj, he's, so they're used. And in fact, why can't they behave like that in Brussels, if we're in the EU, I guess we're in the same EU. If he's got theirs, so's ours. ... We belong to the EU, who are we the EU? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Do we just raise our hands off for these regulations, and basically,.../incomprehensible/... don't apply. The problem is they don't apply. And of us as Parliamentarians, we have to shout and shout, which is why we only make regulations and directives every day, and they don't apply any. And we are on the tail of the EU, at the bottom, worse than these members in... [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you, Lippa. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7753	You have one replica, wait. Mr. Bull. Yeah, yeah. Miro Totgergeli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7754	Thank you. Comrade Bull, if I understand you correctly, you are against this law. And I didn't realize what articles of this law you're against, what sentence would you change in this law to be different, to be according to how you want it down? It is, but you didn't give any alternative to how to do it. On the other hand, you say we're not protecting anything. And you're saying that there's something going on in Croatia that's wrong? So how are we going to eliminate what's wrong and get into Croatia from our market if we don't prescribe what it should look like? Just like this, all our producers adapt to the quality of their products to what is placed on the EU market. And by bringing it, we protect them and the buyers from everything that's bad on the market.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7755	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7756	First, how do you know I'm against it? I was talking about applying, that's not enough. Of course I'm for what's written in this regulation, but we can't even bring it. Where did you hear me say no? So I'm against it being, not being a building material harmful to the environment. And please don't implicate me. And as far as the proposal is concerned, today he was on the government's proposal, just as far as the DOJ is concerned. The law on construction where the base stations that are dangerous would be placed with building permits, don't laugh, you're laughing. I've given enough law, but you've voted against it. To be the same in Croatia as it is in the EU, only harmonised, no less or less, and you say you didn't suggest anything, today there are two of my laws, and my other law in the government was today where there was, of course, negative opinion, I didn't see them paying the right of service to local self-governments, privates, where cables and telecommunications infrastructures go. And that was the last time you were against it, not in Slovenia, in Slovenia you hate to pay for it [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7757	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Damir Habian.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7758	Dear Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, here I will try to stick to the agenda point, although I must admit it in this debate, in this bill, it was not very often the case. We heard about everything most about base stations, but it was actually caused in some way by an alleged speech on behalf of the club in front of the SDP, and also by colleagues Tomasevic I would actually just like to warn you of two things. Therefore, regarding this Proposal for a Law amending the Law on construction products with the final proposal for a law, we are in fact implementing 2 regulations. This is where it's spoken, the guidelines are being handled, the regulations are being handled, and it would be good to distinguish these two things. So, the regulation is something that has a direct effect, something that is implemented in our legislation without a particular need to pass a specific law unlike the guidelines where the national state is actually and has the opportunity to achieve that goal, but the way it will do it depends on the state to the state. So I am talking about Regulation 2019/515 of the European Parliament and of the Council which entered into force on 19 April 2020. So, no, we were talking here in 2019 when it was adopted, we're talking about getting into effect. We have Regulation 2019/120 of the European Parliament and of the Council which will enter into force on 16 July 2021, with certain articles of that Regulation entering into force from 1.1.2021. Therefore, I believe that the ministry, or this government, is actually not late, first if we look at these dates, and secondly, if you look at the very meaning of the regulation, so the regulation is something directly applicable. Any citizen of any Member State may be referred to the regulation before both the European Court and domestic legislation. Therefore, the implementation itself in a way that we bring it here will have no negative consequences for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. That's it, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7759	One replica, distinguished representative Tomislav Tomašević.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7760	I thank my colleague for this lesson. Perhaps you also might teach your colleagues the meaning of both counterpart Bačić and fellow Boric who spoke about the directive as they discussed this debate. They have repeatedly mentioned the word directive, or as you say, a directive, rather than a regulation. So I agree here is talking about harmonising with a regulation that is directly applicable, but here or let's say a fellow secretary who twice said yesterday on the board that it was a Council of Europe regulation. Well, I mean, just when, if you're already teaching lessons to share lessons with your colleagues. Also as regards holding the topic of debate, since we have listened here from colleagues Boric and colleagues Bačić on shipbuilding products, not construction products, so that you would only ask the same archin you apply to the opposition that you also apply to your colleagues. And as for the date on which a certain regulation, as you said, exists, already parts of the regulation have entered into force And in that sense, I don't think there's any need for us to wait nine months for something to happen. [[Intruder: Time.]] It goes into legislative procedure. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7761	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7762	Thank you very much. I'm sorry, counselor, if this was seen as some kind of doctoring it wasn't absolutely no one's doctoring but here you were talking about actually being late in something, I was just pointing out that nothing was late. And I think we agree when we talk about a regulation that is its meaning, which is its way of implementing it and how citizens can actually call on it. I think that's quite clear.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7763	Let us finalise on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, the distinguished representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7764	Thank you very much. I can see it's a little bit, our colleagues from most of the time get nervous, but what the people are going to choose, so choose who they like to talk to, and that's the problem.../incomprehensible/... I'm so glad they're laughing at their colleagues from Varazdin. When I mentioned earlier the base station and this very fellow parliamentary representative organized with his mayor who is now a parliamentary representative with.../incomprehensible/... With the Association for the Protection of Electromagnetic Emissions in Varazdin the problem of base stations, lectures and they oppose in Varazdin and I just that law that a few days behind here to vote and fellow parliamentary representative against. I'm telling him, no one's day you've organized my son in Varazda. You're the man who gets the point, that's what votes against. And that's one problem, I'm talking to a colleague, not you're the mayor, you can, you can, you can, I'll give you a minute if you're going to replicate, Mr. Mayor, but it's true what I'm saying. Ask the former Assembly of this current parliamentary representative and then what it was like. So it's important health and construction material, the environment mainly, but we don't even keep to the environment, we only with waste management centres could open a novel if we didn't have a plan at all. For example, in Split-Dalmatia County, you do not have a dump for construction waste. So when you break, you don't have a dump at all. So I simply, nor does anyone care, people delay in Split, pass through, you will see, so we are simply not organized to protect human health and nature. We're not organized, so it wouldn't have occurred to this Minister of Environment Coric from the club there one of the bosses, without a cell phone, the minister enters there with your colleague from JANAF, then comes to tell goni from Vrgorec waste in Sinj 120 km, and we're talking about health. So we have obligations certain and here it means protecting our health, but we're not protecting any issues. We brought it all, we accepted the waste management neatly, but when it came, the tribal of last year had already closed down a certain portion of our dump which had occurred to them by heart, in order to close... Vrgorca from the same sanitary conditions dump in Sinj. And you will not put him away in Sinj. He will not put him away, so that he may turn away. Well, I wouldn't like to see what's going on from Vrgorec running into the records, but the records are a lot closer to where he came from, so he didn't think of it, and I don't want them to go after the records. But he's from the record, he's not supposed to go to the records that hot. And that's the problem. So it's not enough to bring just the regulation and this colleague of yours says you're against the regulation. I'm not a roaring river against a regulation. But on a daily basis, we who have been in the Assembly here is a colleague of Sabine, who is always making regulations and directives, just not applying it is a fact. Why are we not equal members of the EU, we are not all citizens of the same rights here on the subject, I mentioned that in the ministry's jurisdiction these are telecommunications i.e. setting up base stations, he says it's off topic, but it's a matter of people's health. Well, you can't put something under the window of a base station without the consent of a neighbor, without local self-government, so someone thought of it. In all states, the building permit stands. And today, my law, today, will be that I haven't read it, but I know in advance that a negative opinion is that a lot more important to them than teleopers to pay them for a neat campaign, that's much more important. He's laughing, buddy. He's on fire. I see you're beating up the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7765	Mr. Bull, don't argue with the MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7766	I see he's laughing.....the speakers are talking at the same time....that people are happy. So, distinguished secretary of state, I'm interested in being a parliamentary representative before and an activist, which is with illegally placed base stations set up against the spatial plans of local self-government, and why are they still standing? Are you guys even talking to teleopers? Do you even protect people's health? Now really when I look at us here in masks because of the crown of the virus now imagine when someone 24 hours in Sinj at the bakery is a huge chimney, chimney, on the chimney of the chimney some guy's stuck those base cells women literally gave birth there recently, I think the woman is in fear of it, without consent to anyone's, no matter what the spatial plan says shouldn't be the base station of the building. But it's set against regulations. And for the prize he got that sea opened more casinos under the near school so that that entrepreneur Taken the money that's... [[Santer Invader: Time.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7767	Time. There's no replica. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, the esteemed representative of the Habian. Here you go. Give it up. Uncle?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7768	He's been injured. 238, my colleague Bulj wasn't informed, the Varazdin HDZ had a press conference, that's true, but the theme was to define with a spatial plan which locations, according to which criteria can base stations columns, transmitters, so I said 238, set up. So, fellow Bull... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7769	Please allow the representative to finish. Here you go. ... You have a warning from Tomašević, let him finish, and then we shall see what he has said. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here you go, Uncle.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7770	At first, it means art. 238nd colleague Bulj is not familiar with the press he's calling for. The Varazdin HDZ had this topic, and the proposal was to define the distances and criteria where transmitters could be set by a spatial plan. So that's you. [[Santer Invader: Time.]] So what you've been putting out in your debate isn't true. [[Santer Invader: Time.]] And if it were up to you or anything like that, I might be able to make it back to the Windy Cave today.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7771	Please, Your Honor, Uncle, there have been no injuries to the Rules of Procedure you get a warning. Anka's representative, Mr. Taritash, is in violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7772	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS. In his final presentation on behalf of the club, the distinguished representative Bulj never spoke of the topic under discussion. So you as chairman should have interrupted Mr. Bulj's speech and returned him to the topic. So he talked about everything just not the topic of the debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7773	You're absolutely right, I've broken the Rules of Procedure, but that Bull has never spoken of the subject once, not a single debate has spoken about the subject. Injury of Rules of Procedure Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7774	I'll give my colleagues anka Mrak Tarritash a former minister when these bad laws were passed, I don't want to hear at all if she's made it possible for what's going on with the base stations and everything. You, 238, were injured by the article, you said exactly, and I proposed exactly what you're saying to be passed by law, and you voted against it. And this association HUZEZ was the Croatian Association for the Protection of Electromagnetic Emissions. What you were looking for in Varazdin in that stands, you'll give me as much as you give him. [[Santer Invader: Time.]] Well, what are you laughing at, so this isn't your nephew here. Here, I'll cut the speech at the same time.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7775	Finish it. There was no breach of the Rules of Procedure you get a warning. Mr. Zeljko Uhlir, State Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7776	Thank you very much to all those who participated, especially those who were in the context of the law that is being passed today. It is that construction products have, the HGK has created a catalogue of construction products produced in Croatia, over 1500 of these products are in this catalogue. And as for the deadlines for the adoption of the law and the fact that the law was not adopted in time or that it was delayed, such criticism cannot be accepted because the law had just gone with the full procedure and these amendments that took place were for one reason that the harmonisation with the EU was not easy. On the one hand, when a new regulation is adopted, the new regulation should be thoroughly examined in order to make amendments to our legislation. When the new regulation is adopted, thoroughly examined, it is then accessible to make amendments and supplement our law or our regulation, it comes through the entire domestic procedure, public consultation, coordination with all state bodies, in order to prepare for notification in the EU. Notification in the EU also takes some time, preparation for it takes some time, in the notification of the law spends some time, after leaving the notification, comments are received on the law, these comments need to be answered again. Given that we had a change in state bodies, some opinions or consent of the state authorities were to be re-produced because of the change in the name of the ministries and the results that we have here today. So, he hasn't lost a moment in the procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-30-0.u7777	Thank you. With this, we've exhausted the debate, I'm closing the debate, we'll vote when the conditions are met. We will continue the session tomorrow at 9:30 p.m. Proposal for a law amending the Finality Act rests in payment systems and systems for the peace of financial instruments, with the final bill, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 29. Thank you very much, good night. SESSION Interrupted at 16:23 p.m. Here's a esteemed colleague and a colleague of mine. Good morning. Today we move on with our work. Before we move to the debate on the points planned for today by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget on the basis of Article 247. The Rules of Procedure propose to hold a joint discussion on the following two points: The Final Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of a Contribution Agreement between the European Investment Bank and the Republic of Croatia concerning the Pan-European Guarantee Fund in response to Covid-19, second reading, P.Z. No 30, Final Proposal of the Act on the Confirmation of the First Call Guarantee Agreement between Original Guarantees and Accession Guarantees and the European Investment Bank, Second Reading, P.Z. Number 31. Any objections? No, if there are no objections to the proposed laws, we will conduct a united debate.
