ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206486	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues and fellow MPs, Mr. Minister, I am reporting for the SDP Club's break to consult before the debate on the proposal for a National Compensation Act for the Elderly, given that it is an accelerated process, first and second reading, a signal, and the information we receive every day in the HDZ office in the media is that elections are at the door, that the Croatian Parliament's disbandment is at the door. 90% of Croatian citizens do not support the HDZ's decision to do everything to make it possible for themselves to be in a better starting position, and to endanger the health of our citizens rather than the opposite, they are pushing for elections in September what would be more logical and what was normal in some timeline. But what's problematic is that, so I don't have anything and I'd like HDZ to be in power as soon as possible, so that someone doesn't happen to think that I want HDZ to continue the mandate, I don't want them to leave the government as soon as possible, but I want to make it very clear here. No government in the Republic of Croatia has gambled like this with the election date. Until the last second, they do not want to tell their partners or Croatian citizens, but rather watch how it corresponds specifically to Plenkovic and Jandrokovic. 90% of Croatian citizens do not support this. The headquarters is exposed, you no longer have the halo around the headquarters, or about these HDZ experts, who unfortunately now work and see people working for HDZ. This statement yesterday, or yesterday's statement by Mr. Capak, that people in self-insulation could go to the polls, said everything and took the mask off of everything. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, tell the Croatian citizens when the Croatian Parliament will be disbanded.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206487	Mr. Representative, thank you, we're all agreed to take a break and proceed at 9:00, 41 minutes. It's 9:00.36. [[CONTINUATION AFTER 9:41 A.M.]] What I should have said, I will now call the respected Josip Aladrović, Minister of Labour and Pensions. Minister, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206489	The Honorable President of HS, the Honorable MPs, the Honorable Representatives. First of all, first of all, I would like to remind you of what the Croatian Government has done as regards the pension reform itself or the reform of the pension system. Therefore, the pension reform of 1 January 2019, a package of 6 pension laws, has fully regulated the pension system in order to ensure long-term sustainability and suitability of pensions. We have solved some of the biggest problems of the pension system, removed the perceived inequalities and achieved positive shifts in increasing pensions for both current and future pensioners. It should be pointed out that in order to achieve a more favourable pension and to eliminate generation inequality, insurance undertakings are required to be provided in I and II. We have made it possible to choose a more favourable pension and introduce a proportionate retirement allowance. Positive results by enabling the election to benefit from a more favourable pension and the extension of the allowance can now be seen through the pension system and what is the fact is that now over 42% of people who retire choose pensions from the combined pension column or from both pension pillars, which was ultimately the goal in those initial stages of pension reforms in the early 2000s. We have also changed the form of pension harmonisation along with all of the above, and all to encourage more appropriate amounts, i.e. to achieve the appropriateness of pensions and the adequateness of payments. We have introduced an additional 6-month period for each child born and adopted in the calculation of pensions as a demographic measure that protects motherhood within the pension system and eliminates differences in the heights of pensions between women and men. I remind you that we have expanded our ability to work using a pension that has so far exploited just over 14,000 of our citizens or pensioners. We paid personal attention to people with disabilities and expanded the circle of persons whose internship counts with increased duration, improved the Institute of Professional Rehabilitation and increased the base of the financial compensation due to physical damage. Since the start of the term of office, pensions have increased slightly more than 12% while the lowest pensions are more than 15%, and they include about 255,000 pensioners, or our citizens. These are some of the examples of a number of measures implemented under the pension system, which we have improved in line with economic opportunities through the pension system in order to ensure the long-term sustainability of pensions, the adequateness of pensions and the resolution of intergenerational inequality. We have already announced the resolution of the situation of our older citizens who do not meet the conditions for retirement and have no other income through the appropriate legislative framework. With this proposal for a law in front of you, we want to take an additional step in improving the material rights of older people or protecting our older citizens who have not been able to secure income in their work at age, and at an older age they do not have enough money or resources to settle their needs. I would like to remind you that the Social Care Strategy for the elderly in the Republic of Croatia for the period from 2017 to 2020, which the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted in September 2017, overlooked the introduction of a cash compensation to the socially endangered elderly by the end of 2020, as it is now proposed in the draft law that lies ahead of you. Namely, the Institute of National Compensation for Elderly Persons is intended for elderly people who do not make a pension on the basis of previous work and paid pension contributions or persons who do not have a minimum retirement period of 15 years for obtaining age pension rights and older than 65 years of age, have a long-term residence in the Republic of Croatia and have no other source of income. It is important to point out that the potential beneficiaries of this fee were, for the most part, unable to achieve the necessary minimum retirement time, for example because of the lack of education, life in rural areas where the labour market and similar reasons were not developed. In drawing up this bill, which introduces a new institute aimed at reducing the poverty of older people, it was necessary to analyse the number of parameters of the current system of social care, pension system, labour market conditions or labour markets as such and of course the best European practices. To this end, the Institute for Public Finance has developed an analysis of parameters from the social care system, pension system and labour market conditions in the EU countries and best European practices in relation to the project of introducing national compensation for older people. In fact, in European countries there is no unique access to this institute, differences are significant depending on which country has defined itself to be represented through a pension system, whether such an institute should be represented through a social care system, so that there is no uniform practice. But, of course, in these studies, we have received a comprehensive demonstration of best European practices. In addition, the draft law should also take into account the proportion of national pensions for elderly people with the lowest pension for a minimum of 15 years of retirement period, which has been around €1.030 since 1 January 2020, which provides for some lower level of pension insurance rights in the pension system and the guaranteeed minimum benefit from the welfare system, which is 920 kuna per month for a working incompetent male. The Working Party for determining the conditions and criteria for the introduction of a national pension in which, apart from representatives of the competent ministries or representatives of government and social partners, representatives of the academic community and representatives of pensioners, associations that care about older persons have been actively working in the past period and with their expertise and constructive proposals has made a significant contribution to the definition of the criteria for drawing up this bill, and I will take advantage of this opportunity in HS to thank them for that. The proposal for a National Compensation Act for the elderly before you is proposing the following, introducing a national fee for older people defined as monetary income for Croatian citizens over 65 years of age with residence in the Republic of Croatia for an uninterrupted duration of 20 years prior to submission of the application. Therefore, it is a new law that will be adequately protected from the general revenues of the state budget only by Croatian citizens with long-term residence in the Republic of Croatia. In addition to the general conditions, additional conditions for the exercise of rights are prescribed, namely, that the elderly person is not a pensioner and is not an insurance undertaking in compulsory pension insurance. However, in cases where a pension is made lower than the national fee, the user may choose to pay the national fee and, in that case, suspend pension payments from the compulsory pension system. Furthermore, the older person is not a beneficiary of the guaranteed minimum fee, but he may exceptionally choose a more favourable right and, if he chooses a national fee, ceases the right to a guaranteed minimum fee. It is important to note that when setting criteria, the income or income price for users and household members is taken into account, meaning that users and household members do not make revenues in the previous calendar year greater than 800 kuna per month per household member. Income is considered to be wages, pensions, income from independent activity, income from assets and capital, income from insurance and other income under tax regulations. In this respect, it should be noted that income does not include compensation for the assistance and care of another person, personal disability from the welfare system, disability of Croatian defenders and civilian war victims, compensation for physical damage and compensation for foreign assistance and care from the pension system and other charges that are not subject to taxation. It is important here to point out that we consider the total income of the household to be the best indicator of the financial situation in which the elderly is located. The ownership of real estate or other assets should not be a determining factor for the achievement of this new right aimed at improving the quality of life of older people who, during the working age, have not been able to achieve incomes that will define their incomes in the older age. Furthermore, the applicant is not the recipient of maintenance under a life support contract and is not granted the right to a social care accommodation service. Since the purpose of this fee is to meet exactly the basic existential needs and these needs are already being provided under the provision of accommodation services through the social care system, we believe that it cannot be used at the same time or that both rights cannot be applied at the same time. These two institutes are aimed at achieving an equal goal through different rights. In accordance with economic opportunities, a monthly amount of national compensation of 800 kuna is proposed and the amount is the same for one or more users in the same household. In doing so, I must stress that we have been leading and that we have had to make sure that the amount of benefits is lower than the minimum pension for 15 years of retirement as the rights arising from previous work. It is also established that national compensation for older people is harmonised each calendar year starting from 1 January 2022 on the basis of the data we will have for 2021, and according to the decision of the Governing Council of HZMO which binds to the rate of increase in the consumer price index. The procedure for the exercise of rights shall be initiated at the request of a person who fulfils the condition of years, citizenship and residence. Our commitment to the right to decide HZMO, because of the information equipment, cooperation and developed business processes in the exchange of data between the Tax Administration and the Institute and other associated institutions, as well as the successful practices so far in the implementation of the child or pension allowance procedures, can ensure that this law is implemented with available information, technical and human potentials, and thus the introduction of this right will not have an impact on increasing the administrative system. Special cooperation between the institutions and the social care centres is also prescribed in order to prevent abuse. The social care centre will, at the request of the Institute, provide information available from the official records of beneficiaries of the social care system rights determined to determine the facts necessary for the exercise of the right to national compensation for older persons. The social care centre will also provide solutions to the recognised right to this compensation, and the Social Care Centre will also inform the Institute of the recognition of the right to accommodation services. Furthermore, it provides for the verification of income data and other facts on which the right depends once a year and the abolition of the date on which the change occurred affecting the use of the national compensation itself. Discontinuation of the right is regulated by specific circumstances such as the death of the user, increased income of the household, employment, the exercise of activities on the basis of the obligation to provide insurance and check-out of residence from the Republic of Croatia, the determination of detention, prison, the conclusion of a life-restraint contract or the recognition of the right to accommodation. The funds necessary for the implementation of the proposed law were estimated at 132 million kuna for approximately 19,700 users in 2021 and at an amount of 181 million kuna for around 21,500 users in 2022. It will be financed from the general revenues of the state budget. It is important to stress that national compensation for older persons is aimed at increasing the quality of life of older people. This bill enables income in age to meet the basic needs of life as a contribution to the material well-being or safety of our citizens, of course, in accordance with economic opportunities in the Republic of Croatia. It will cover a group of elderly people who are not receiving, and that is a group of people for whom we as a society are responsible and it is our duty to take proper care of them. The introduction of a specific legislative framework, i.e. the introduction of national compensation for older people, ensures a basic level of social security for age, which will certainly contribute to reducing the stigmatisation of older people due to poverty. Finally, I would like to point out that it is proposed that this law be adopted by emergency procedure, since all previous assumptions for its timely application should be ensured as of 1 January 2021. Namely, the HZMO implementing body must provide technical preconditions for the establishment of a new business process, i.e. to establish all solutions in technological, process and, in a technological and process sense and in a domain of human potential. Thank you, everyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206490	I thank the minister. We've got 12 replicas, first mate cellic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206491	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister, although some of these will also declare this a pre-election move by this government, I will remind you that in the Social Care Strategy for the Elderly as a goal under regular number 3 is a national pension that is actually the same, national compensation for older people. Therefore, there is also a certain analogy here with changes, amendments and additions to the Voluntary Health Insurance Act where indexation or change of income censorship is determined. There is therefore a change in the average consumer price index plus a change in gross wages. On the basis of what criteria have you determined compliance for further periods of national compensation for older people?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206492	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206493	Your Honor, I thank you for asking. So, as you pointed out well in the national strategy, I mentioned it and in the opening address it was just envisaged to introduce such an institute, whether it was called a national pension or a national compensation for older people it was actually more or less anyway. Harmonisation in general in systems in such approximate institutes can be linked either to consumer price indices or to wage growth indices. In view of the fact that this is what we consider to be a more favourable indexation for future users, we have decided to index as stated in the bill itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206494	She's a second colleague of Maximchuk's.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206495	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Ministers with the secretary of state, that the HDZ government is very socially sensitive, you have shown by the recent increase in the lowest pensions by 3.13%, so the pensions in this term grew 12% and the lowest 15%. You are now introducing a national fee for older people who are a new institute where older people over 65 will be given higher levels of social and material protection. So my question is, what are the projections of your potential number of users of this fee? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206496	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206497	Thank you for asking the honourable MPs. So, as far as the facts are concerned, or the figures that you have presented, they are correct, so there is no need to refer to that, however, a good analogy is that the Croatian government has shown care for older people through previous coordinations, i.e. an increase in pensions. Care for older people is also demonstrated by the introduction of this new institute, however, it includes one segment of people who have not been covered by either the social care system or the pension system so far. In view of this, as we have already pointed out in the materials delivered in the first year, we expect slightly less than 20,000 new users, so the users of a new institute whose actually existential situation is helping or helping to address the potential problem of older people's poverty. So that's where we made it very clear that we wanted to protect older people. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206498	Comrade Mrsic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206499	Thank you very much. So this law is another law that is in line with the harsh HDZ election trade and what you are proposing today is citizen fraud. But I'd like to ask you something more important. You stole half a billion kuna people from an account that was intended to hire people with disabilities. Tell us here in front of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, in front of people with disabilities whom you gave those half a billion, and how many of those half a billion went to persons with disabilities who were on hold and who lost their jobs during this crown of crisis? We warned you not to do this, but obviously it was more likely for you to take people with disabilities instead of finding other items in the budget rebalancing that could be reduced. Shame on you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206500	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206501	Well, Agent Mrsic, here I must admit the very interesting interpretations of what has been happening, a very interesting political view, especially since you should know this system and should know that the amount of funds available to disabled people. So, if you're interpreting it as diabolical as you're interpreting it, then that's one look. If you interpret that we have preserved jobs with certain means, and on the other hand we have left about 200 million kuna at a special source concerning the very resources on which people with disabilities are provided and encouraged by employment, then it is a very different perspective. So it would be good if, with these very difficult words, you frighten the Croatian public and bring the truth to the end and say that there is another 200 million kuna to pay off all obligations neatly and that quota employment as such will earn more than the quota employment obligation will earn more in the future than there is expenditure on the same items.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206502	Thank you. A colleague of the Hill, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206503	Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. One of the 20 principles of the European Pillar of Social Rights refers to income in old age and retirement. According to this principle, retired workers and self-employed persons are entitled to a pension that corresponds to their contributions and makes adequate income, and all older people have the right to resources that provide them with a decent life. Now you just tell me, does receiving that which is three times less than the poverty limit in the Republic provide older people with a decent life, whether those who receive a pension and a payment of contributions, or those who have not worked? Just tell me that, and that's what you stated in that dignified life you quoted in the bill on page 2, so explain to me how it's possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206504	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206505	Your Honor, Mr. Hrelja. So as I initially stated, this institute is a new institute, the institute is which is consistent with the economic possibilities of the Republic of Croatia. We are aware of what the minimum pension is, or what the minimum pension is for at least 15 years of employment. Since these amounts are within 1,030 kuna at this time, we believe that this is how we actually stimulate additionally certain incomes in the older age that accumulate greater quality of life. Self-sufficiency or lack of sufficientness can be discussed, however, that is what the Republic of Croatia can at the moment and that is what the Republic of Croatia is doing at this time, or the Government of the Republic of Croatia is sending very clear signals to the elderly population that it is not neglected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206506	Comrade Lovrinović, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206507	Honored Minister Aladrovic. Two questions. You wrote in the HDZ in 2017 in the strategy that you will spend this, meaning 20,000 people that you will give 800 kuna. Why have you waited three years because people could have lived better than that, and you've been doing it two months before the election. So it's pretty clear why you just launched it. That's the first question. Second. See here according to HZMO bulletin data up to 500 kuna 92,810 citizens receive a pension of up to 500 kuna. Now you tell me, how now these people who have no conditions get 800 kuna, and those who get up to 500 are discriminated against. I suggest you, not to suggest, but to demand on their behalf, increase them by 300 kuna, that's about 60 million more and do the right thing. Don't discriminate on people.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206508	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206509	Dear Representative Lovrinović. As far as your first question is concerned, so what is mentioned in the national strategy is that implementation will be during or after the adoption of the legal framework will be in the period from 2017 to 2020, given all the preconditions that have been worked so far, given the work group's workload we have achieved in time what we promised and in 2021 will be the implementation. Since you are a professor at the Faculty of Economics in Zagreb, I am surprised by this second question of yours, because you should know that 92,000 users do not receive less than 500 kuna when we exclude those who receive a proportional part of the proportion of work experience in the Republic and the vast majority of these people, so only 12,000 people, which is that we still understand a lot, receive amounts that are less than 1,000 kuna, and that proportional part of the internships that they have achieved outside come from other European countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206510	Comrade Maras, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206511	Thank you very much. Mr. Aladrovic, my question is two questions. The first is, which is why we didn't make this measure in 2017 because HDZ's logic is there's no money when economic growth is and there's money when we're going to fall 10%. So this story of elections or pre-election promises here comes most to terms because that you're consistent then I guess when you have money you're giving that measure, not when there's no money. So you're three years behind on that. And another thing I want to ask you, since you are soon a technical minister, what have you agreed with the teachers? So my view is that teachers don't need to be reduced to wages and that they need to be respected for what's agreed on because they're doing more than they would normally do at this point, given that the government has made chaos in the education system where people go to schools and work from home, and children are ultimately suffering the most. So two things I asked you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206512	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206513	Your Honor, Representative Maras. So the other thing has nothing to do with the subject, so I'm going to take it out. As for the first question when we are talking specifically about the legislative proposal before us, I have mentioned earlier that the national strategy provides for a deadline for the adoption of the legal framework between 2017 and between 2020, that we are bringing this legal framework in 2020 and that we are expecting implementation in 2021. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206514	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, here you go, Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206515	Thank you very much. Mr. President, I'm asking you, 238 is hurt to protect the MPs and the minister you're saying that he came here to answer our questions, not to document and ignore our enquiries. As you said yourself, Croatia deserves legitimate authority, you yourself said it is not available at this time that the minister will soon be a technical minister and that I am interested in what he has agreed with the professors. So it's no big deal and I think people deserve to hear it. What he has a problem with here saying he didn't do anything, it's not my problem, but the citizens have a right to know. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206516	Please sit down, you've been warned because you've violated the Rules of Procedure, this wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but you've replicated it, and you've put it in my mouth that I said the government doesn't have any legitimacy. No, I didn't say that, and I'm asking you not to be false. Please write down the warning. My colleague Jackov, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206517	Thank you. Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. I am interested in why it was taken as a criterion or condition of 20 years of continuous residence, especially in the context, it is my duty to say that the largest number of return Serbs has actually returned to the Republic of Croatia since 2000. However, even that is not the problem, the basic problem is that at the time of their return they could not enter their own homes, the latter had various court proceedings, some were devastated houses or were restored, so that the majority of the Serb returnees would not be covered by this law. And I repeat, why was a 20-year-old criterion taken?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206518	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206519	Dear Representative Jeckov. So, as far as making this law itself is concerned, we already mentioned in the introduction that the working group that worked was extremely wide and that it also included the academic community. In the deliveries of a working group working on the law, among other things, the Institute of Public Finance analysed European practices, since such an institute generally always brings along this uninterrupted stay in this case to the Republic of Croatia, and so we decided to put ourselves in the proposal for a law to join this continuous stay of 20 years. There are different experiences, but I dare say this is one of the lower limits to what we could see. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206520	Comrade Leakovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206521	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honorary Minister, you said it doesn't matter whether this institute is called a national pension or a national pension. I think it doesn't matter whether it's called a national pension or a national pension, and we warned this morning at a board meeting. So I think this is a question of a social benefit that has nothing to do with your ministry or the HZMO should deal with a kind of social assistance, let's just say it in a so-called way. I hope there will be no problem in implementing this type of institute in its application, but we have seen that timing is indicative. This institute is actually brought several weeks before the elections, and it is indicative that you have also announced in your portfolio some changes in the criteria relating to state support when it comes to preserving jobs, so I would take the opportunity to tell us something about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206522	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206523	Your Honor, I thank you for asking. So, as far as I'm concerned, if I said it was anyway, then maybe I put myself on the spot. So what matters is what it's called, but even more important is what purpose that institute still has. So, as I said in some European practices and in comparable practices, there are different cases than being part of the pension system, to being part of the welfare system. We have decided that the name itself does not imply that it is part of the pension system, is financed from the general revenues of the budget, and thus is not linked financially to the payment of contributions. On the other hand, we have chosen HZMO as an implementing body because it is an implementing body which does not require additional administrative capacity and does not make additional costs or for reasons of economicity towards the very introduction of this institute. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206524	Thank you. Now it's up to counterpart Ante Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206525	Thank you very much, esteemed president of HS. Dear Minister. When your lunches come out of opposition like this, then you know you're on your way and this is a good bill. We proposed it then and in pre-election time and he thank God he came here on the HS agenda. So, 60,000 people who look at this one way or another this debate I'm sure they welcome the adoption of this national fee for older people. I have another question, technically. So most of these people come from rural areas and they will have to submit in a physical sense this request, however, in addition to the administration relating to the law, the Tax Administration, the HZMO, the HZZO whether there is a possibility, and I know that it is possible to do so, to do so by electronic means, that we do not have additional administration after applying for these persons. So I'd like you to say it here publicly and transparently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206526	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206527	Dear Representative Babic. Thanks for asking. So, as far as this is concerned, just one of the reasons why we chose HZMO is precisely its territorial dispersion throughout the Republic of Croatia, so 20 regional offices, 91 branches in the Republic of Croatia, makes it a significant availability for achieving this kind of right. In addition, there is a link with the Tax Administration, with all other public institutions or public services in the Republic of Croatia. If there is a need for furthering or for all other needs of upgrade, there is sufficient time and we will certainly be administering the right to this compensation to the minimum extent possible, of course and the favorite users. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206528	Comrade Lukacic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206529	Thank you very much. Dear Minister. First of all, I want to say that it is good that you have saved thousands of people with disabilities through the resources of the Institute of Arts, and as far as this law is concerned, I support, so I am glad that the Government is doing what it has promised, and please explain briefly once again what the difference between this national compensation for our older citizens and guaranteed minimum fees is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206530	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206531	Thank you for asking, Mrs. Lukacic. So as far as the national compensation for older people themselves is concerned, it foresees slightly lighter criteria, so to speak, as far as users themselves are concerned. It therefore includes a certain, certain degree of social security, i.e. for those who are consumers or future users of national compensation for older people, actually makes it easier in a way in the older age of financial resources. For the guaranteed minimum compensation itself are the competent centres for social care and therefore there is a certain level of administration that needs to be met in the system itself. So here we have decided on a relatively simple institute, but the Institute that protects those most needed in this case, and of course the user of the minimum guaranteed fee or national compensation for the elderly in that case can choose as favourably his right.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206532	Thank you. A colleague of Panenić's.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206533	Dear Minister, of course, you are relying on a strategy that should bring together actually care for all those who belong to the third age, but there is also the problem of consistency of policies being conducted because it is not just a monetary amount, sometimes what can help them is much more important. We have a constant fluctuation, we have help programmes in the house that last, and then we have one option, so we have a program, then we have one blank, so the program is coming. Wish somewhere is up to the competitions, so now we have a second phase, so there will be 800 kuna, what I think in that policy, means here I say ok 800 kuna will certainly be a considerable help to those who will achieve it, but whether a whole set of these rights will once equalise that anyone who is a pensioner who has a certain need knows what he can count on and can get it from the Croatian state, and not every time we depend on a financial amount or on a political option that may have some vision, and in the end are Retired ones who got the most hurt. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206534	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206535	I thank you for asking, Mr Panenic, if we're talking specifically about this institute, so we're talking about a new institute, we've pointed out that several times. We are talking about an institute which therefore covers a particular segment of society that has so far been without financial income, without financial income and that segment of society which is precisely for this reason that you have stated has in some way remained beyond all the legal regulations and regulations so far. That is why the simplicity of this institute, or what bestows it, is precisely simplicity, and with the aim of reducing the poverty of an older age. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206536	And colleague Peric, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206537	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear Ministers, State Secretarys, and according to the information you have provided, it is said that 59,738 people who are not pensioners or employees. What is also significant is that from these very total numbers here you note that a large part will actually be used by a person or woman in rural areas which is very good given the situation that is, and this is confirmed by the Institute of Public Finance, which speaks of 29,000 otherwise persons who could exercise the right. Therefore, it is very good that this is also applied to women in rural areas in this case.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206538	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206539	I appreciate the question, Mrs. Peric, so I'll agree with you here. So this is one of the target groups or target group that will certainly be the highest intensity in itself, in the very number of users precisely for the reasons mentioned above, so from perhaps one historical, historical circumstances that the availability of education was somewhat lower, that the development of the labour market was somewhat lower and that actually one approach to work was something different in history. For this very reason, most users will make women in rural areas, but of course it is a group that this government has to worry about, and by adopting this institute itself, it will show concern for that part of society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206540	Thank you, Minister. A colleague of the Sladorovs called for a break. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206541	Thank you, Mr. President. So I'm looking for a break on behalf of the MOST Club so we can consult on this bill. Obviously, the government, take one step forward, two steps back, so I want to take the opportunity because people are sending messages, the minister is here. So, associations, people with disabilities send messages whether the government took 500 million kuna from that fund that encourages professional rehabilitation and the rights of disabled people. So, I must say, through this time of the crown of the virus, I have met many persons with, a person with disabilities when I carried food and medicines as part of the Blue Heart action and they are also asking me to have Minister Aladrovic answer the question specifically. It's about people who have a hard time living here's exactly one friend sending me, he doesn't usually have a hand, he says every time I buy a shirt that needs to be changed to a tailor's shirt, so his life is much more expensive, people are panicking about wanting concrete answers and let the minister answer specific questions. I'll almost have a press on it, but he can answer now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206542	The apartment will be approved. Is anyone else picking up? If we don't, we'll continue at 10 o'clock and 35 minutes. It's 10:00.23. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 10:37 A.M.]] Comrade Maras, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206544	At the 57th session held on 13 May, the Committee on Labour, Pensions System and the Social Partnership of the Croatian Parliament held today, meaning that, just prior to the session, he discussed the Proposal for a National Compensation Act for the Elderly with the Final Proposal for the Law, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 947, which has been delivered to the President of the Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by an act of 7 May 2020. That act was discussed by the Committee in accordance with Article 83. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as a parent working body. In the opening statement of the proposer's representative, she pointed out that the right to national compensation for older persons can be obtained by Croatian citizens who turn 65 years of age with a residence in the Republic of Croatia for an uninterrupted period of 20 years immediately before applying for the right. The right to national compensation for older persons may be effected if the person is not a beneficiary of a pension under the rules of the Republic of Croatia or according to the regulations of another State and is not an insurance undertaking in compulsory retirement insurance, that the beneficiary and/or members of the household income are not subject to the determined amount of national benefits per household member per month, that the beneficiary is not entitled to a minimum social welfare allowance guaranteed, that there is no recognised right to an accommodation service according to social care rules and that there is no contract on life support or a life support contract as a recipient. National compensation for older people has been estimated to be around 19 700 people in 2021 and 21 550 in 2022. In the debate, the proposing representative stressed that the proposed law intends to establish its own national support as a replacement income for a specific category of older people in order to ensure a certain degree of social security. Most board members support the proposed solutions and ensure, in line with economic opportunities, income in age or social security of citizens. In the debate, the biggest challenges prompted solutions under which no condition for the savings user in commercial banks was set either in kunas or in foreign exchanges. In the opinion of the Committee members, this will open up the possibility of abuse. It is also not clear enough that children are obliged to support parents and powerless parents who do not have their own income. The national fee for older people is 800 kn per month, the amount of national compensation for older people is adjusted from 1 January of each calendar year starting on 1 January 2022. Decision on the harmonisation of national compensation for older persons shall be adopted by the Administrative Board of the Institutions. In the debate, most members supported the adoption of this bill by voting "for" 9 and 1 "abstained" and decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to pass the National Compensation Act for the elderly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206545	Is there anyone else on behalf of the board? If not, then I'm opening a debate and it's the first turn of the HDZ Representatives' Club, respected colleague Branko Juričev-Martinchev, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206546	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, my colleagues and colleagues. This Proposal for a Law on National Compensation for Elderly Persons The HDZ Club will support because this law introduces and introduces a new law into the legal system, a right that improves the quality of life of our older citizens who have not managed to secure income for age due to their different circumstances, ensure that they have no other income and live in families, in their households with insufficient income. In the Republic of Croatia, people over 65 have about 20% and are at greater risk of poverty than the average of the general population. We have heard that this proposal for a law on national compensation for older people is a condition for a person to have Croatian citizenship, that he is over 65 years of age, that he has a residence in the Republic of Croatia right before applying. It is estimated that in the Republic of Croatia there are around 60,000 people older than 65 who have failed to meet the conditions for the exercise of pension rights. Among these elderly people without pensions, most of them are women because women were significantly less than men participated in paid work outside the house, and their careers were interrupted and shorter. The potential users of this fee were most often unable to meet these minimum conditions for a pension internship, so it was mostly as I said about women, about those residents from our rural areas, those whose lack of access to education was more difficult, their education was more difficult then they had an inadequate network of public transport, so as I said, residents from villages, villages and islands. Life on the coast also comes down to basic main activity. We know that in tourism mostly all employees do everything for 3 months. So many cleaners, waitresses, porters, they only have three months. a working internship in one year, so it takes them 15 years to get a job and 60 seasons. Let us not forget that our fellow citizens who have not found themselves guilty at the Bureau of Employment at the age of 50 also find it very difficult to reach a new job and permanent employment, and these are 1/3 unemployed. They are mostly employed in part-time or in the Treaty of Work, and these are also the reasons why they decided to propose such a law so that all of our fellow citizens who have also worked or wanted to work and at least have the right to secure a pension from the minimum age of 15. Worktime, they weren't able. This bill would allow for an additional step towards improving the material situation for about 20,000 of our older citizens, older than 65. When making this law, too, it was necessary to take care of how much minimum social care compensation was guaranteed, and how much is the lowest pension. We know that since January 1st of this year, the lowest retirement is 15 years old. Retirement rate determined at a value of just over EUR 1,000,00. And that amount benefits about 260 of our fellow citizens. According to the Social Care Act guaranteed a minimum fee of about 800 or not, but an exact 800,00 kn for the settlement of basic living needs, it also benefits about 8000 of our fellow citizens over 65, while the amount for a working incompetent male is 920,00 kn. For this reason, it decided that this exact amount of compensation would be worth €800,00, with it being adjusted each year to the rate of increase in the consumer price index. It is also important to note that the setting of criteria takes into account both income and income censorship, but this income does not include compensation for the assistance and care of other persons, personal disability from the welfare system, disability of Croatian defenders and civilians victims of war, compensation for physical damage and compensation for foreign assistance and care from the pension system and other benefits that are not subject to taxation. National compensation for the elderly can also not be subject to enforcement or insurance. The ownership of real estate or other property will also not be an obstacle to receiving this fee, such as in the case of a minimum fee guaranteed. In fact, we know that many of our older citizens have other than a house in which they may have some sort of tavern, an asshole, a boat, or a car, and all of these were reasons that could not have been righted under the Social Care Act, or received so-called. Social compensation. Unlike this fee that will be possible, it will be paid to all of our fellow citizens who possess such a thing. And I would point out once again that this government has really done a lot, that it has raised 12%, which is twice what the three previous governments have done and much more than what has been promised to raise only 5% in the pre-election period. The lowest pension was also increased by 15% by about 255,000 pensioners. A circle of pensioners who are allowed to work part-time at the same time receiving a pension has also been extended. Pension reform has also been carried out to ensure the long-term sustainability of the pension system because ageing population needs to be provided to a greater extent every year, and we also need to keep in mind what we will leave to our children and that our children who will work tomorrow have the right to retire. When we talk about women, it should be said that this government has also enabled the project "Wish" to help both older and powerless, while at the same time hiring a vulnerable group of women. For the first time in the term of office of this Government, an additional 6-month period was also introduced for each child born and adopted in the calculation of the pension i.e. an increase of about 2% for each child, acknowledging that women were also raising children and often and therefore had fewer salaries and less employment. This law intends to establish a system of its own national support as a replacement income for the category of older persons, as also foreseen by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by adopting the strategy itself. This law, as I said, introduces a new right, the right to a national fee is just another one in a series of laws that helps our oldest citizens, mostly women who have also contributed in their own way to our community, whether they have worked more in the house or in the field, than in the labour market, and all of these are the reasons why the HDZ Club will support this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206547	We are going to the 2nd debate, the Club of Representatives of the HSS and Democrats, dear colleague Miranda Mrsic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206548	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. This is a law that goes into, as part of what we're doing these days, a very rough trade with voters where people are trying to show that here's the HDZ doing something, so I'm going to quote some parts of the document that HDZ presented to the citizens in the 2016 elections. "We will establish a national pension for people who are incapable of self-innovating and working," HDZ pledged in the 2016 pre-election programme. It's an election, HDZ wants to sell colourful lies to old citizens. They promised 2016. establish a national pension for people who are unable to self-inflict and work. It has been four years since this law entered into force in 1.1.2021, so it is very clear that you wanted to show that something was being done. But in this document, economic growth, new jobs and social justice, HDZ has pledged to have the right to all persons over 65 who do not have other sources of income and to be 40% of the minimum wage in the year in which the person is entitled to a national pension. Gentlemen, Minister, you didn't look back at this at all, and then we told you in the elections that it wasn't so real, that you weren't doing it because if you had fulfilled your 2016 election promise, then the national fee or national pension would be 1,300 kuna. So the minimum gross salary for this year is 4,062 kuna, net is 3,250, 40% is 1,300 kuna. In that case, someone with one year of employment or 14 years of employment would receive 1,300 kuna when they met all the conditions for the exercise of the right. Then we warned you that this concept was wrong for you because according to the Pension Insurance Act today someone who is 15 years old has the right to retire and 1,026,75, so this is what the HDZ promises and does not execute. And now there's the election, so let's do something, so let's make it look like a national pension. In this programme right up to the promise of a national pension, there is also a promise to build new homes for older and powerless ones, I will quote: "We will build new homes for older and powerless ones, we will build 20 homes for older and powerless ones and get new 2000 accommodation units in the state and private sector". There's been this many homes built, not one built, and this is one black lie. We know the pathology of lying to HDZ, especially before the elections. Today, you are facing this National Pensions Bill and Minister Aladrovic said in one step, so it is not natural for someone to pay dividends and bonuses and receive support for jobs. It is not natural for Minister Aladrovic to defend this law because this law is from a welfare system, not a pension insurance system. And here you should have seen Minister Bedekovic because what is now done with this law is a clean lie to the citizens and you are trying to get into the best of the election situation. When the law enters into force from 1 January 2021, the national fee will be 800 kuna, so as much as the minimum fee is guaranteed. The coordination decision will be made by the HZMO administrative board but related to the fee, guaranteed minimum fee. It is clear that this promise of 1,300 kuna 40% of the minimum wage will not be realised and that is another lie that HDZ is now seeking to plant on us. Instead of national pensions or national benefits, it should have been settled through the welfare system, because this law is deeply contradictory because on the one hand you have a guaranteed minimum fee and you have the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders where for any fee you must have a lot of paper, and you must have a very significant part, and that means you do not have a real estate. In this law, the Ministry did not want to purposely or not, put on an asset censorship, and in this sense I gave the amendment proposal, I hope the ministry will consider and will consider the majority because without property censorship you can have someone who has more houses, who has more apartments, who can make money on the sea with apartments and someone who can have savings and receive 800 kuna national pensions. Without that property censorship, this law falls into the water, and that's what everyone has warned you, from the defense unions and everything else. Because what message are you sending? You're sending a message that whoever's under 65 and wants to get a guaranteed minimum fee has to sell everything, and whoever's over 65 can keep it nice and get 800 kuna again. On the other hand, according to the Family Law, the responsibility of children to care for parents is prescribed, and that is something that is normal and that is fine. You in this law have nothing to do to make sure the one to whom you give the national fee has children who can support them. You don't have one thing in the law that goes for it. And what is said very mildly in the law, and you boast that this will increase the social inclusion of women, the law will ultimately lead to less and less women being on the labour market because, according to the experiences of other countries, if the age limit is set at the age limit for retirement, it will have a negative effect on the motivation to pay for contributions and on the participation of women on the labour market. If you in 65. is waiting for a pension or compensation whether you were paying contributions or not, you are not motivated to look for a job and it will affect the labour market negatively. This is a good idea, nobody says no against the idea, I'm talking against the way it's done, and it's done in a hurry. The law that should regulate it was made in a way that would be a cartoon itself, a cartoon of itself. And that's what the message of this law is. Why is the national fee good? It is good and it should be in our legislation, should not be in the pension system, it must be in the welfare system. And now trying to explain why this should be in the national system, so the pension system when HZMO will administer that compensation that is from the welfare system, will draw all social care papers instead of having social care that has all the data and solve all these requirements. What I see here now, I see another additional entanglement of HDZ personnel in HZMO because lately more than 300 new people have been employed by HZMO, with the HDZ card. And when HDZ boasts of a 12% pension increase, it is an increase related to the Swiss formula, pensions would grow with both HDZ and HDZ without legal obligation. But also HDZ doesn't boast about the rise in pensions in this quarter, it's 0.7%, because it's such a Swiss formula and it's a message from the HDZ, it lies on all sides, especially because elections are going. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206549	Thank you, too. Now it's time, sir, actually, to Club of Representatives of the Living Wall, and let's change Croatia. First Mr. Lovrinović, then Mrs. Lovrinović. Sabolek, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206550	Thank you. Dear citizens, I warmly welcome you in front of the Party Let's change Croatia. You see, we're discussing the so-called. National compensation for older people, so it's not even social aid, it's not retirement, it's some hybrid that's here, but it's said by predecessors, designed for parliamentary elections for the HDZ coalition. Why? Because they want to stay until Judgment Day in power, you see, until Judgment Day. And how? Well, you gentlemen have come up with your 2017 strategy. In which you wrote that for 800,00 kn you will help people who have no other income, I can't live and what you've been waiting for 3.G.? Now, two months before the election, you pulled the paper and you say let's split up 800,00 kn. How many citizens? 20,000 citizens. So you found one niche of the constituency that you now want as colorful balloons or candy attract. And I'm asking you again why those 20,000 people didn't think of it 3 years ago, you should have paid off immediately. How much does that cost? You calculated, 160 million kuna. So, you'd be up for these last three years. They paid 480 million kuna, and you did not pay for it because the average pension in the Republic of Croatia is around £2.500,00, that's the poverty zone, the poverty zone. My people, you can't live on it. So you couldn't pay them off, you couldn't pay them off, you didn't want to, for 160 million years, and you put bankers and background managers in full pockets. Why? Every year, I gave you four years. Here you spoke, each year you could save about 4 billion kunas that you refinanced all the kuna loans for the state, meaning for the state's debt needs. You didn't mean to. So 12 billion kunas, you put in bankers, background managers, and 480 million kunas, you couldn't get these people with no money. That's the policy you send and you say don't worry, we've provided crumbs for you, we've secured the crumbs. Now listen to this. When a Croatian state was established, so I have data for the 1990s, then the average pension relative to the average salary in the Republic of Croatia was 75%, read statistics. What is the average pension today compared to the average salary? Only 39%. The pensioners are Croatia's biggest victims since the establishment of the Croatian state. They were offered on the altar. The oligarchy is theirs, you pensioners, you are offered on the altar of the Croatian state and you paid the highest price, they give you crumbs. Unfortunately, many of you will still vote for those who intend to continue to give you crumbs and represent it as the achievement of Croatian dream. So I ask that a large number of people, your statistics are worth nothing, you've taught me a lesson here, you've done the right statistics how many people get up to 500, 800,00 kn, 1000, large, tens of thousands of people do it, don't take it with you, announce it right, no, not just for your own purposes. That there's 1,000 of them, and that's tens of thousands. If I said that the average pension is £2.500,00, that's the poverty zone, that's it. Therefore, this is not the Republic of Croatia that we have fought for, for which so many lives have been laid, this is the Republic of Croatia, which they, who are super-respected citizens and soldiers, are their Republic of Croatia, this is their dream. It is their dream that you always have to pull them by the sleeve to increase you by 50,00 kn each year and clap and that we should be happy. In that sense I call you dear citizens proud people, and even in poverty, there come elections, let's read these people a lesson, let's throw them off the stage, these are people who are trembling, I see them in the halls because they don't know if they'll be here again, they're shaking like rails because most of them can't do anything else, you know, but they can manipulate here and they can deal with political intrigues. Therefore, this is a destabilized pension system, this is a mixed social security with the pension system but they don't care because once the law is passed, it will only be paid after this term is over. Therefore, I invite you to stand up, let us not satisfy the crumbs, we belong to the wealth of Croatia that it has but they took it for themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206551	Thank you, too. - Mrs. Crescent. Sabolek, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206552	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, colleagues, respected citizens. I have to tell you that HDZ lied again, namely, before the elections they were still promising a national pension, now they're introducing a much lower national fee, right? They were then literally screaming promises to establish a national pension for people who were unable to self-inflict and work. They promised to have a national pension, that they would have the right of a person over 65 years of age who had no other sources of income from Croatian citizens who had been resident in Croatia for at least 15 years. The amount of national pension should then be determined according to the promise according to the amount of minimum wage, i.e. at least 40% of the minimum salary in the year in which a person is entitled to a national pension. So HDZ lied again and failed to keep the promise. In the consultation process that has been opened since the beginning of April, the national pension has also turned into a national compensation for older people, from the minimum wage promised 40%, which gives only 800 kn to our citizens at risk of poverty and older citizens, cannot cover average monthly directories with average bills for heating and payment of the reserve. How are these people going to survive? What's he gonna feed on? 80,000 lives depend on the decisions of this government. We got a call from a retired gentleman, crying on the phone, not knowing how he and his wife would survive. He's afraid of what a husband will live on if he dies first. And if the first wife who has several hundred kunas dies, the gentleman says that the only solution is to buy him the 800 kn gun and one bullet. Here's what your policy brings, good for you. A few hundred kunas decide on our citizens, the oldest citizens will survive, and I am really talking about mere survival, survival, hunger and cold in the middle of winter because of the heating savings. We from the Living Wall know how people live, people are out of the field, so we gave the procedure in May 2018 two laws, a proposal for a national age compensation bill that would amount to 1031.94 kn per month per user or 30% of the gross minimum wage in the Republic of Croatia. More than 86,000 elderly people living in the Republic of Croatia who are not beneficiaries of pension rights and do not have any own income. A total of at least 36% of the population of the Republic of Croatia, aged 65 years, does not receive an age pension. We also put in the Proposal for a Law amending the Pension Insurance Act. In Croatia, more than 315 000 pensioners receive pensions below 1500 kuna. It is estimated that more than half of the total number of pensioners, in particular 52.2% is below the poverty line. The law determines the lowest pensions with that it cannot be below 1500 kuna. Thank you, gentlemen of the HDZ, for being so loud, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206553	Thank you very much. I have to say, Mrs. Devereaux. Sabolek's right. Let's move on, counsel club, she's right to say you're loud, the other things I'm not going in right now because I can't. The club of representatives of the Labour Party and solidarity and independent representatives is the first Mrs. A pervert, then, Mr. Varda.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206554	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. For those who have nothing to live on, it is completely irrelevant who will pass the law, it is important for them to get some money from which they will be able to live as well as they can. This law in the form of a national pension or a national foundation, I think, somewhere since 2000, has been in many programmes of political parties, it was even in the programmes of some governments and I am glad to see that today with all its shortcomings it has nevertheless come before parliamentary representatives primarily because of people who have nothing to live on, 800 kn is little, out of 800 kn won't be overdressed or overdressed, but when you have nothing, then 800 kn is still something. Unfortunately, in Croatia, it is very difficult to raise social benefits and pensions because our salaries are low and we always have to make sure that there is no compensation or this fee national for those who could not earn a pension, so we are now providing some existence or those who work, so no compensation should be demotive for work. And it's always hard there, so as soon as you raise it, you go into the space that it's actually better to be either social or something else, and not get up every morning at 7 o'clock and work somewhere, and that's why we have extremely low fees that actually really people can't live on and this, you can't even say that it's going to ease poverty, but here, as long as it doesn't start to develop the economy more seriously, until there's a little more serious salary growth, it can hardly affect a little pensions and benefits. I would also like to point out on behalf of the Labour and Solidarity Party, i.e. the club and the independent representatives, several of the amendments that we have made. We think that you should take care of people who have had a life support contract, if they break it up, these people are some kind of air-free space, they don't have the money to support themselves, so you try to somehow protect them during this period and install them with this help. On the other hand, this power of attorney may be a little problematic, you know that older people are often victims of fraud, power of attorney, question to whom you're going to give, maybe they can run out of it. If the power of attorney by the public notary is confirmed, then it requires some new funding that they do not have, so we would ask that, here, think about it a little bit, and if we are to be consequent, so this is about people who are older and who are working incompetent, maybe putting them on those 920 kunas, that is our proposal, and you will decide whether you have money for it or whether you can arrange such a thing. And I would also like to say that, on behalf of the Labour and Solidarity Party, we have filed two laws, or two laws, in the procedure, one Ombudsman to the elderly, we think that someone should really take care of their rights and protection seriously, and this crown has also shown that the elderly are the most unprotected and most vulnerable. And the second is the law, I think it's called mandatory relationships, mostly regulates this Life Support Act where people are really often victims of certain frauds. Under the old days, and without a roof on their heads, only without any worries, so we have to protect them a little, so here's the thing, we put these two laws in the parliamentary procedure. I'm afraid it'll run out of debate in this House, but in any case, here's our political decision to sort of fight for those who actually care about the state's most important. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206555	Thank you, too. Mr. Varda, you have time to land and use your five minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206556	Thank you, well-respected vice president of HS, respected ministers, secretary of state, colleagues and colleagues. She's teaching on the presentation of her colleague Opačić. Compared to the amendments we've made, and tell the minister that we should take care of the elderly, finally to hear it in the House. In any case, at the beginning of the day, we will, as counterpart Opačić said, support the law, give four amendments in the sense that we will try to improve this law precisely because of the dignity of older people and the integrity of their integrity in relation to the possible frauds that have taken place, especially in those provisions of the laws relating to the life or life support contract and to the granting of power to third parties to receive that fee. counterpart Babic warned Ante that excessive administration should be avoided. Our amendments are just going in that sense. If the Law on Mandatory Relations allows every natural person to give his right to power of attorney, then that should not be particularly emphasized in this law. We are otherwise against it, as we are against those older people being paid this fee exclusively through the bank. It's mostly about older people in rural areas. The truth God, the government, Milanovic's government has abolished that provision so that the compensation can be paid through mail. We ask that the amendment that can be paid through mail and mail is because it is about older people who neither have a car nor have a bank in their rural areas and cannot simply get their own funds. That's not a problem, that's really not a problem if we want to preserve these people's dignity. As for the life support that you say for a reason, if there is a life support, there's no right to this fee, which is fine, we're just warning that it's life support. We're because a colleague, a colleague of Opačić, said they put this law in the process, the lapus of the Hrelja, the lapus. That's exactly why we're trying to prevent fraud. Not just from the mob, but from the relatives of the elderly. We've had examples in both the media and the practice of simply enrolling in life support immediately, selling the apartment, and the old person is no longer there, he's on the street. We've just suggested that, uh, the DOJ bring in one rulebook or bring in a rulebook, which will sort out the content of the life support contract. Because then he's just certified by the public notary, the thing over, this one immediately registers on ownership, and he owns it from that moment on, has all the property as the owner, and we have no obligation whatsoever to do what he is as a maintenance provider. It depends on his will. If we want to preserve the dignity of the elderly. On the other hand, that's why we gave the amendment to supplement the article, just a little bit to see where we put it, yeah, you say if there's a life or life support agreement. It can also be broken by will, he must launch a court dispute, which in case the dispute was initiated for the termination of the contract, and as we continue the disputes long he remains without income, without abstention. And that should be regulated in a way, we have, in that sense, given the amendment to introduce this new point 6 that says in case the dispute is conducted, it has the right to this compensation because otherwise it runs out of anything. I would ask that, I would ask you, dear ministers, with due care to consider our amendments, they go in favour of improving the text and content of the law, but in any case depending on the fate of the amendments, the club of the Labour and Solidarity Party and the independent representatives, regardless of all the criticisms I have heard so far, regardless of the context in which we adopt this law, aware of the situation in the state budget and that context that we bring, the club will support the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206557	Thank you, too. Mr Branko Hrg will now speak before the HDS-HSLS-HDSSB's Club of Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206558	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. The HDS-HSLSS-HDSSB club at first I will say will support this law, if for no other reason, and what it does for the most part of people older than life, especially women from rural areas. So women who worked on earth their whole lives and kept the household, were not employed, and unfortunately they did not get rid of pension obligations. We know what kind of system it was until the 1990s that basically none of the peasants in principle or were very, very rare who paid any contributions at all, most people each then invested in survival, survival, in children in the extreme case they were not isolated, unable to pray out, and simply if later children did not allow them to pay those allowances, they remained normal without any possibility of getting any pension. And the introduction of a national retirement pension is welcome anyway. It's a shame it's not long ago, it's long gone. What worries me a little is that in this time of year 2020, then '21. and '22. We have a trend of growth, and we should be realistically falling if we would see that this system is quite different since the '90s and something else has to happen. It is normal for us to ensure that national pensions are provided to people who have a continuous stay and life in Croatia because in case that is not so, we know that in principle some possible immigration is beginning in the extreme case in Croatia of elderly people who could use it, that some European countries have problems with social benefits that give where the good part of people goes there because they have good social benefits, they apply there and they can live solidly from it. What is questionable to me is giving money without any kind of obligation because we have to be in a situation that, as in that social part, those social monthly benefits that get older or people with disabilities or infirmity, we often have winding-up and manipulations, often happen that a variety of malversions have been made in order for a person to exercise that right, and realistically when it seems difficult to achieve it. I'm kind of always a fan of having to be a scale. So if someone doesn't have any pensions, no compensation, no children who inherit the property or won't inherit the property, then the state should put a note on that property, so today, tomorrow, when someone inherits it, get the money back to the state or give it up, it'll be inherited by local self-government. The same thing is with those social categories with those social censorships because we have a situation here, we don't have an asset censorship, we only have income, and we don't have property. And we have a situation sure that people also have valuable assets, and they probably don't have this income part, and they're basically going to get right, and maybe they live along with their own to say so to my children, their relatives, and they can't say bread hungry. You should think about it in the future, some time ahead, and when it's going to be that we don't get to use the system again, as I repeat, it's quite present in social censorship. There are all kinds of situations here and it's formally legal, it's all clean and fine, but realistically, when it looks like we often have deviations. With these few observations for thinking, for tracking in the future, like I said at the beginning, our club will support the bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206559	Thank you very much. Mr. Goran Beus Richembergh will speak in front of the GLAS Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206560	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. The strength of the sustainability of one community is certainly reflected in the consistency, sustainability, transparency and justice of its social system. Unfortunately, the Republic of Croatia has not had such a thing since its very beginning. So, 30. a system of social care on one hand, and then social support to all those who are depressed in different ways and for various reasons has never been stabilised, has never been standardised, has never been built from beginning to end with meaning, logic and logical purpose. It is constantly being built up, torn down, yellowed down, as my Dalmatians would say, and taken from one end to put it on the other end, and he does not speak of our society as social society as such. If we do not go into detail now, this is also seen in caring for people with disabilities where actually the origin of disability creates discrimination on persons with disabilities, and so to the day of today, and it has been said for 20 years, a social injustice has also been created when it comes to older people. This country is a device, simple and wrong start when it comes to taking care of older people, first of all, of that famous retirement system robbery from the '90s. when it was simply the Constitutional Court's decision to repay debts to the pensioners. It's not that it's taken, it's that it's been said not to be taken, that all maneuvers are legal. It was only the Constitutional Court's decision to return the matter to the starting point and say that you have wrongly taken those whom you should not have touched the acquired rights. And that system is perpetuated. He's neither just nor logical, nor systematic. Now this story, and therefore the proposal for this law, should not be looked at and it would be bad to look beyond the context of this government's overall social policy. So, it primarily judges politically, assesses what is useful, which is useless, not for society, not for socially depressed groups, but above all, politically probative to HDZ. In today's opening letter, the minister said a whole series of claims that if we looked beyond this context we wouldn't have anything to add or subtract. But when we contextulate it, then a whole series of problems are born. 2017 A strategy has been adopted which explicitly states that a minimum national pension will be introduced. Now, retirement, compensation, help, you'd say it doesn't matter. Yes, it's very important because it's a statusally different set of things. 2017 We decided to go to that institute. My colleague Opačić said there was an idea about it before, let's just say in her time it wasn't realized, and then it didn't go into it in 2018, 2019 in years that were fiscally stable but are now going in an emergency procedure. So it is obvious that it is being manipulated, that it is trying for pre-election purposes to time the matter so that it is presented to the public immediately before the parliamentary elections. It's not God-knows-how many votes, but what you'd say, HDZ rejoices. 20,000 who will be able to do so in 2021, a solid pool, just enough to send them a message not to stay home but to come to the elections because if HDZ remains in power, then they will guarantee that they will receive the 800,00 kn. So that's how you buy votes. From who? Of the people who are completely socially marginalized, who generally do not have education, they do not have any employment, who live in the country, who are mostly housewives who have spent their entire lives as farmers without permanent and permanent income, who may well live in one-member households. Of course it's easy for them to send a message and tell Grandma to come to the election and she'll give you the HDZ 800,00 kn and that's the taste of this proposal. If he hadn't given himself in two readings, then we would have opened this story in January if what the minister said was what he promised it would be in 2020, not until 2020, so it could have been before. We'd have more time, we'd upgrade the system to new suggestions, we'd make things right, and this way, in an emergency procedure, take it or leave it. For example, to a man over 65, every month is important, natural. Every day. Here it's said to be, let's say, the right will be achieved on the basis of last calendar year's data, let's say, an income census. He's in the 11th month. He's 65 years old, submits a request, but he's been taken for the past calendar year. Why haven't they been for the past 12 months? Because in that past calendar year, anything could have happened. Someone could've lost their job in that household, someone could've died. Large and dramatic changes could occur in the income censorship, but it will have to wait all that time because one calendar year has been said and not the last 12 months. I repeat, to people over 65 who live below the poverty line who, as such, are already endangering them and their lives, every day, every week, every month is important. I say, to observe this outside the context of the overall social policy that the ministry has proposed in this government, along with the Ministry of Social Welfare, so they carry that overall policy, would not be good. Today it is mentioned and it should be underlined, parallel to this happening a very strong deprivation of people with disabilities. The parents of children with special needs are desperate, freaked out because there are no help assistants in this COVID crisis, no school, no special schools. 300 plus 150 or 150 plus 300 million from a fund filled by employers who do not meet mandatory quotas for the employment of disabled persons has simply been taken and redistributed for other purposes. Not for the needs of people with disabilities, so that money is intended to improve the employment conditions of people with disabilities. It has not changed the purpose of these funds in a way to say we will now help children with disabilities these money or other categories of people with disabilities but have gone to a completely different story and this is support for entrepreneurs and people who are at risk of the COVID crisis on the labour market. At this point, the state budget is shorter than 25.5 billion kuna on the revenue side, and yesterday we heard it when we presented the rebalancing but of course, the expenditure side wasn't touched. What does that mean? That we will go into debt, but it should be temporarily taken wherever redistribution can be made to meet the HDZ's political goals just before the elections in July and there is no doubt and there is no scruples. This is done if you should both at the expense of persons with disabilities and in this context you should observe this law and we will refrain from supporting it because we think that the whole model is wrong, to go at the wrong time and actually buy the pre-election favor of 20 thousand people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206561	- Mrs. Crescent. Dragana Jeckov will speak on behalf of the SDSS Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206562	I would like to thank the Vice-President, Mr. Secretary. The idea of a national pension is mentioned among Croatian politicians for more than 15 years, and as we have the opportunity to hear, it will come to life in 2021. The proposed law intends to establish a system of its own national support as a substitute income for a specific category of older persons to ensure that they have a certain degree of social security. It is a measure aimed at increasing the quality of the life of older people. The authors of this proposal believe that this will help to reduce the stigmatisation of older people as one of the main reasons for not using social care compensation. In the significant work of the poor population, the cause of poverty is a structural nature such as war, political and economic transition, the controversial process of privatisation, the economic crisis and others. To remind us that Croatia is next to Spain, it is on top of the scale when it comes to the number of older than 65 years who do not receive a pension. The non-covery according to EUROSTAT data is at a high 36% high, which means that 64% is receiving a pension. In her report, the Ombudsman pointed out that many Croatian citizens face poverty that makes it impossible for them to achieve many rights, groups with the greatest risk of poverty and social inclusion are just older people and among them are children, young, unemployed and of course members of the Roma and Serbian ethnic groups. As for a few sentences only about these general conditions for the exercise of the right to national compensation, what is certainly positive and what deserves to be pointed out is that most of the elderly without retirement are women, in fact what is not good, but in this law is good and for the reason that women significantly less participated in paid work outside the house and also their working careers were shorter and interrupted. It is mostly rural women without formal training and they would of course not have anything to survive from, however, there is, of course, that it is usually 22, so if, in a household where a husband receives a pension insignificantly over 1,600 kuna, let's say, 1,620 kuna, a woman without income census will not be able to achieve the right to a national fee even though she is alone without any income, depending on her husband's incomes, which are miserable and both are practically living in poverty. A national pension is needed as an unsustainable barrier to older people's poverty, and in a age group older than 65 years, they have reached the EU's infamous fifth worst place. When it comes to the risk of poverty and social exclusion of as much as 32.9%, women are even a percentage of 36. Croatia, when it comes to the poverty line, is 2,496,05 kuna per single person, and the lowest pension for 15 years of employment is 1,019 kuna while social assistance is 920 kuna. This looks like too many numbers, but it hides the maths of old age poverty. What causes doubt in this bill is, which is why not taking property censorship along with income. The former speakers spoke of it and showed it on practical examples. We simply wonder why it is so that everyone is obliged to place their property in the function of personal restraint. Such a solution has also been accessed in other laws determining state benefits. This would avoid the situation for property owners and real estate of higher values in and outside the Republic of Croatia to receive a national fee which is essentially one social giving. The second question that should certainly be highlighted is to ensure justice in obtaining the right to this kind of social giving and their targeting towards persons in the real need, I believe that it is necessary to prescribe as I said and the condition of the property censorship applicable to the right of guaranteed minimum social care compensation. In principle, a number of grants and support from the state budget are subject to the conditions of income, income and property censorship for a simple reason to ensure transparency and justice. Certainly, in order to prevent possible abuses, they will definitely require the verification of income and property of children who are children of potential users. The provisions of this law stipulate that the right to a national compensation shall cease and payment shall be suspended by the determination of detention, investigative prison or by the maintenance of the sentence for more than a month, on the day of the occurrence of the circumstances. The proposed text indicates that the fact that a particular detention or investigative prison is sufficient to give a solution to the abolition of the right to national compensation for older people is unacceptable because for people who are not legally convicted, however, the presummation of innocence is worth it. Two very important problems that I want to say something about, which is of course about the national community I belong to, which is according to official data in Croatia, around 13,000 Serbs have returned to total, which is the largest number of those older age. A significant number of returnees were recorded in the late 1990s, and most returned in 2001, a total of 15,000. After that period, the number of returnees began to decline. We warn of the problem of the return population and of the general condition of 20 years of continued residence immediately prior to the adoption of the requirement to be met. I point out that Serb returnees have been returning most since 2000, however, could not enter into ownership of their property because it was moved or not returned to the owner or where the house was completely devastated and the owner was awaiting reconstruction. I've also talked about this problem in my replica, and I'm taking the opportunity to say that we're going to put an amendment on this subject. And the other problem I should point out is to financially damaged pensioners in the period from '91 to '98, so it's a group that was wrongly taken away from their assets and they remained deprived of their rights and their number is far less than the number of those covered by this law. Of course, we have a lot of understanding for the poverty that is covered by the older population and this social component is certainly very important, but we support every measure aimed at poverty, and I think that the state could still find a way to help these pensioners, too, in the period from '91 to '98, find a way to help them too. You know what group I'm talking about, and I'm going to remind you that there was a working group who worked for three years, and in the end, that work was interrupted. They thought there was nothing to talk about. There is something to talk about, and I will use 55 seconds to say that the payment of the pensions due has not been suspended by their guilt, that it contributes to compulsory health and pension insurance that they have been paying into the Croatian pension fund, rather than to the paraphond as they are being respected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206563	Thank you, too. Now Mr Silvano Hrelja will speak in front of the Club of Representatives of HSU-SNAGA-independent representatives and New Politics. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206564	Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives, Mr. Minister, representatives, State Secretary. So first I want to say the character of this law, which is him. I will later say that this was the goal and previous governments, but it has never been realised, but given the moment and the content we have before us this law is a generous pre-election outflow of the enormous love of HDZ to the poorest citizens over 65. for a little money and a little delay. Nothing tomorrow. Solutions will only be issued next year, requirements will not be granted until next year. This is a brief vision of concern for the elderly over 65. who have not worked, who have insufficient, insufficient income to live with dignity, which is, in fact, set in the light of this law and as a goal, but this goal cannot be at the level of 1/3 of the poverty line in the Republic of Croatia, which is 2,485.00 kn, and this is at the level of 800,00 kn. This law has caused major recommendations amongst the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and everyone from their point of view has a full right. One group of citizens said again it is given to those who did not pay their contributions to the burden, on the burden of all of us, or on pension insurance, and then demonstrate a very justified dissatisfaction with pension policy and disorder in the pension, pension system. Very, very justified because the pension system is a Valda shock absorber who can swallow everything. They have the right to claim that this is not the case and that the pedestal values should be those pensions that, for which contributions have been paid for years and decades. There's another group of citizens saying okay, everybody needs help, but why is my pension 15 years old? So small? Why is it at 1.030,00 kn level more than double, two and a half times smaller than the poverty line? How is it that the social state protects me, and in 15 years, it's not my fault that my employer was bad, that he didn't pay his contributions neatly, is that why I was convicted or convicted of poverty? Mostly, I have to admit it's about women. Third group of citizens very revolutionized, very loud. I understand them completely, I support them, you release the national age benefits. What about us who, along with our husbands, made payments together in 80 years? contributes even when one dies, when one dies, we have the right to 70% of the pension of the deceased or our pension or to choose a more favourable right. Indeed, they are right because the most valuable pensions in the pension system of the Republic of Croatia are family pensions. The most paid is for what is paid on this basis. So, the first priority is for HSU and in the function of fighting poverty, but also on the basis of payments of contributions over the years, not on the basis of social rights are family pensions and our law is here in the procedure. Of course he won't come for this term because it's a hot potato that the government doesn't even want to touch. And the fourth group is the ones who say that everyone, and they're right, they all need to be protected, let's let the stories of this, what, the social state has to work, we can't call them humanitarians, these are people who really think that the social state should help everyone below the border, below the poverty line. And then we're talking specifically about this law that I told the basic characteristics at the beginning. The law was to come to the assembly no later than 2018, it was to be discussed, it was to be done seriously, it was to be discussed in 2 readings, it was to accept all remarks. What it says there is that in the fourth quarter of the government's plan this year, and now we can interpret it as being before that deadline, it will actually be applied on January 1, January, or when the first solutions are solved next year. A broad public debate, the respect of all arguments, there will be no such thing, most amendments will refuse and be very good and correct in relation to this law. It was necessary to introduce this institute which we too would support, so we do not object to this institute because it may have been needed 15 years ago. whether or, or 20 introduce in, the legal system of the Republic of Croatia with transparent real criteria, but based on good footage of poverty spread among older people. You don't have any figures in this law here, you can't figure out how many users will be, how much it will cost, how many new costs, how much will you get back on the basis of a pension suspension if there are any. So you can't because you're mentioning some numbers of 180 or 132 million kunas, if I were to all 59 000 users, then you need 600 million kunas. So here we play with 100 to 600 million kunas with ranges. That means we haven't recorded the situation. I'm asking you based on this and this waiting until the last moment, given this, pre-election outflow of enormous love,... Why does the Croatian government, HDZ not love its poor citizens of older age? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Or she only likes them for a voice. They only ask for a voice, the rest doesn't matter. And let me also say that in 2016, people who were later ministers, in pre-election promises in front of HDZ, said they would introduce a national pension, not a national fee, as it now says here, amounting to 1300 kuna. The characteristics of this law are the vagueness and great intertwination of income and income censorship without clear distinctions. I'm not going to talk about it because I'm always called why they should talk about it, that income isn't important. I think you're right and I won't talk about it anymore. I have to say, there's an illogicality of choosing a more favourable right here. So someone can give up social benefits, guaranteed benefits, cash benefits, to take this pension. It's highly unlikely because the guaranteed cash compensation offers him some more social welfare rights, there isn't any here, there's just a pension here. I'm asking you, you're offering on the other side because you know there are, that old family pensions are less than new, less than after 1999 and those family pensions less than 800 kuna. Tell me on the basis of which law, under which law the user may give up his pension. You have to explain this to me on the basis of which law the user may, by his statement, give up his pension. He can quit if he gets a job. The peace stops paying if someone dies. For the implementation of this law, you must amend the Pension Insurance Act. Well, let me finish. Regardless of the shortcomings, regardless of the huge holes in this bill, since I've been in the previous coalitions that should have introduced this, we're going to introduce the institute and we're going to fix it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206565	It is now in front of the Club of Representatives of the CNS Mr. Stjepan Curaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206566	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President, the Honorable Minister, the Honorable Secretary of State, the esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Very short. As far as the matter itself is concerned, we have heard, therefore, that is the proposal of the National Compensation Act for older people who are estimated at around 60 thousand, slightly below and where certain conditions are prescribed, among which basic terms as the Minister has said, Croatian... minimum age 65 years and 20 years... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] residences. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And then we have income censorship, so that there's actually no cumulation, that I don't list everyone else, if you're a user and those social benefits, on other grounds, pensions, etc., my colleague Hrelja mentioned something about life support, so on and so forth. As far as property censorship is concerned, we can't by law, in general I'm only talking about this law now or any other go apriors saying that our citizens are thieves. In translation, someone has real estate, which on black rent, has no income, so they exercise this right. If he's renting something, he has to record it in the IRS because he makes a tax offense punishable by law. So we can't in this way speak in positive regulations, or limit someone's property or whether they live in it, whether they're conditional on life or not, we need to see what's reported as income as such. But if someone's doing something, they'll punish them severely. As for the general pension system, we've talked about it many times, we've brought some shifts to me, and I can thank you once again for the accepted proposals that we've now put on, which have become more or less standard. What is common to most MPs or, in fact, most of them, I can say to half of those who are constructively discussing, half of those who have one position perhaps that I had at the beginning of my policy, when I said, these are the bad guys, these are the bad guys, I don't like these, and whatever they say, I don't believe and it's no good. Life teaches you that it's not really like that, that every medal has two sides. That then the ones that you thought were right that they were actually your pandan, the opposite, you're disappointed, that you see that neither is it, and then it actually leads to that social apathy where we are, that no one else trusts in politics anymore. They've all betrayed, they're all the same, etc., etc. As the People's Proverbs put it, this man was not born who pleased everyone. A minimum wage, an example. 2500, 2700, 2800, 3000, 3250, every time they come in with a proposal, there goes the counterproposal, not 3, come on 3, 5, not 3, 5, come on 4. It's not 800, why not 1,000. The fee, why 3250 for March, why isn't 5. Itd., some bidding, generally more or less, who will take more care of a certain group of people, who will prove to be a better protector, better their spokesman, etc., etc. And everything that comes, the proposal, on one side or the other, is wrong. And it's not just criticism of the opposition, it's criticism in front of the promoter. There were few ministers who accepted certain proposals and amendments. And some of them were willing to accept it. I voted for some of them. Multiple times, amendment. But generally, it all comes down to the same thing. As far as the number of 60,000 people is concerned, I would point out that some of the data that we should be taking care of is years of being paid into the pension system or year of internship. Unfortunately, we people who are over or on average 30. The internship they have somewhere between 2000,00-2,500,00 kn pension. That's it. Because we have to separate. I agree here, this was planned... The government's activities for this year, probably now because of this whole crisis, have, of course, been accelerated and brought to bear, to honor it, to promise it, I respect it, it's their right and it's better to have and better to bring than to, I don't know what we're pretending to be, to pretend to be English. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, the problem arises when people who have worked for many years and have little pensions. And we put it all on, and now we're doing it again, which is not exactly my choice either, we're putting everything under the same umbrella, everything in the pension system because we nationalized it. We nationalized HZMO when we got away from socialist rule. We didn't liberalize it, we nationalized it, everything that was in HZMO that social so-called. Before, all their portfolios, their assets, everything became state-owned, all of their deposits by sight, everything became part of the general state budget, and that's why we pay off all our pensions from the budget today. We nationalized him and he loses his own sense of insurance in his own sense. And now here we're doing this again, this fee, and we're not putting our pension into the pension system. I don't think I should, but in my opinion, I've said it many times before, there shouldn't even be defense pensions in there if they're not pensions. They are the same fees, allowances, rewards, help, anything other than retirement is the minimum guaranteed defence pension equal to the person who had 100 or more days or 105 days of wartime and 5.g. The internship and her, and the one who had 105 days of wartime and 25 years of age. working day. It's the same, because when this one counts according to the general regulations of the 25th. He falls off less and takes that defense attorney and that code throws everything in the wind. Well, that's not good, I've said it many times. But I don't see any colleagues who are too smart now that they did something when they had the chance. Why didn't that happen before? And no one will touch, no one will interfere. And it's easy to talk while you're in opposition, but when you get here, we'll leave it on the side of the carpet. But then I'll be smart when I have no responsibility. Well, that kind of policy and that kind of discussion brings us here where we are. These guys are never good at this, these guys are never good at this, and nothing, we're not going forward... I speak in general. [[You can't hear a bogey from a bench.]] Otherwise, a colleague of the Hrelja's, as far as the execution is concerned, I'm going to monopolize these pay phones a little bit now, on money, no one has, no one's been paid by that bank contract, everyone's got full pensions.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206567	Don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206568	Yes, yes, fine, I accept, I accept, I accept, I accept criticism, I accept the chair of criticism.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206569	Let's move on, let's move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206570	My friend Hrelja has an announcement to throw away, and then you can take it further.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206571	Let's go, let's move on. And you there on the side of the silence.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206572	Well, thank you. Thank you. So, please, let's make sure, and that part if we're going to work on PS, even though we don't work a lot of times. So in conclusion, I, of course this club of the HNS will accept. I think that talking from 800,00 kn fee is on one side to one who has nothing much, generally about today's cost of life not enough and it's always an awkward border and it's always a question of how much and on what grounds it needs to see in fact what are all the common grounds for which the state cares about its powerlesss who have no assets, no other incomes, and in what way that, that notion of the social state we meet. Is that a defacto we are and it is one of the gains of modern society and civilization. And with that, and respecting all these recommendations, and we can always say why it's not before. Some of those 60,000 of these will, that will mean extremely. Less or more implementing in my opinion does not come across some, some implementing problems, so practically the only one, is that it is now in the pension system and is not in the social system, but I say this is not the only thing that I would like to do once and for all to distinguish what rights are from pension, pension contributions or pension insurance, and what are fees and various, different, different other givings which you, giving to you, given certain conditions, and that's not just here, it has more of these things that we could have changed a long time ago. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206573	Mr. Gordan Maras will now speak before the SDP's Club of Representatives, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206574	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, don't be a warda hichhotate, 4 years ago. You've betrayed voters, now I can't wait to see how they'll reward you. I can't wait. Thank you very much, colleagues and colleagues, fellow MPs, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary. At first I will say that the SDP will support this law, but we must say because it is clear to all of you in the Republic of Croatia what is the intensity and intention of this law. HDZ could and should have proposed this law three years ago. So 2017, '18, '19, '20. 20,000 people would be protected and have certain incomes, and in this way they could say that they really care about the citizens of the weaker property or those who do not have any income and that they want to help them in this way. At this moment, on the eve of this term, or on new information that HDZ is pushing into the media, the Parliament will be dismissed from Monday, just so you know. On the other hand, HDZ wants to try to make a promise in six months that some citizens will receive 8 hundred kuna. And the sole purpose of this bill is the campaign, i.e. elections and pre-election campaign. Because how else do you explain that you didn't give when you had a growth of 3%, and now it proposes as a foll, Mr. Aladrović and Plenkovic care about our older citizens, and here, when we're going to have a 10% drop, they've singled out 800 kunas. Come on, please, nobody believes it, neither does it, it doesn't believe it nor children who are unfortunately at home today and watching, it's 98% of the school on TV and it would be good if the government of the Republic was able to organize an education system so that children can acquire knowledge and educate. To show that they can bring us back to normal times than they only think about campaigns, elections and how to provide Plenkovic with another mandate. Everyone figured it out, everybody understands it. 90% of citizens understand that and said in a poll what they think about what Prime Minister Plenkovic is doing and what the ruling majority is doing. And I want to know how the MPs who hold Leuter Plenkovic will be appointed all these four years, including Varda, who betrayed the voters first, at the first possible moment when he could because he was elected on my list with a few hundred votes and eventually fled to HDZ, or a pardon, even worse, fled Bandic. And on the other hand, I'm curious about how all those other MPs in HS who should think in a way that HDZ can't own the state, can't put our fellow citizens' health ahead of it. He can't run a campaign through these laws in the last, literally in the last days of the campaign because HDZ is not a state. HDZ is a poor leader of the state, HDZ is a poor leader of the Republic of Croatia and you will see for the next few months how much all these moves will cost our citizens. Otherwise, since they have failed to provide an education system, i.e. that we do not have schools in Croatia today and we do not have the opportunity for our children to attend classes, I suggest that Mr. Aladrović not touch the salaries of teachers or teachers, since they work twice as hard as they should otherwise when the situation is normal, and because of the incompetence of Minister Divjak and Prime Minister Plenkovic, they must work both at schools and at home with children, send them and control what they have learned in the arrangement of their moms, dads, grandparents. This is Croatia today and the only thing Plenkovic is thinking about is how to renew the mandate and I really call on all citizens to make this a referendum on whether Plenkovic or Croatia is more important. These elections should be a referendum on whether Plenkovic and Bandic or Croatia are more important. And her citizens. Because these laws show Plenkovic only thinks of himself. And when you see that this government has set itself up like that, I would say, unworthy of leaving Croatian citizens in suspense until the last second when the parliament is disbanded, today is the information that it will be on Monday, in order to avoid the date 19.7. and what if the president calls the elections on Saturday? Why would it be Sunday? There may be elections on Saturday. And yet the President of the Republic calls, my colleague, Boric. Maybe if the president had stayed, maybe it would have been as safe as Plenkovic's. And this might be Saturday. So with that, we had Monday's election, January 3rd. Maybe we should put on Monday to give bad karma to HDZ because he had a debacle in 2000 on January 3rd. Thus, irresponsible politicians would be appointed, I am sure the president of the state will not think in that way, as Prime Minister Plenkovic thinks, because this disbandment on Monday, Plenkovic is doing well by himself. And the president of the Republic will watch what is the interest of the citizens of the Republic and will thus call the elections so that citizens can consume their electoral rights as much as possible and choose a government and authority that will have legitimacy and will not calculate in such a poor and miserable way. Here, that's what I wanted to say here. Unfortunately, it all fits into this law where one good intensity is used in the opposite direction entirely. These people, these 20,000 people were supposed to be getting that fee for three years. Because how to explain, we will have less budget revenues in 2021 than we had in 2017 and how to explain that now suddenly here, there is money, and in 2017 when we had bigger budget revenues there was no money. Well, that's the only logic of Plenkovic. He's the only one who can figure it out. But unfortunately for him, it is understood by the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and the magic that has bewitched him for the past month, two days where he thought he would win the election quickly through the Staff. The headquarters fell apart. So look at that, that shame these people experience every day that Bozinović silenced them yesterday and not to tell them at press conferences at 2:00. The spell broke down, in a month's time, believe me, it'll be even smaller, and in two months, it'll be gone. So this, this wish that the Prime Minister, Plenkovic, wanted to make, will not happen to him, will not follow his hand to quickly, thinking only of himself, expose Croatian citizens to health risks without him staying in his chair. That won't work because 90% of Croatian citizens recognize it and in the survey, they say what they think about its intensity to go to the polls when it suits him and HDZ. These chips do whatever they want, they cheated on their voters already, one four years ago as Varda and HNS 2.5, 3 years ago, they can't remember exactly now, 2017, almost 3 years ago since they cheated on their voters and when they did it to make HDZ and Plenkovic stay in the position they unfortunately are in today and do their job badly. What I can promise, that this intensity and this legal solution will remain in place and when Plenkovic's government changes, no matter what the pre-election promise of HDZ, because I think these people deserve to be helped, I agree with my colleague Curaj that it is not to be put into retirement because it is not a pension, it is social aid or social assistance to the most vulnerable citizens and it has nothing to do with pension, it is unlikely that this is proposed by the Ministry of Labour and Pensions system at all because it really has nothing to do with it. Finally, I must say once again, that these people who will receive 800 kn, I am glad for 20,000 of them, but I am not happy because of more than 20,000 Zagreb and Zagreb who will be left without the safety and non-compliance of the Law on the Reconstruction of Zagreb because Plenkovic is in a hurry to vote. So tomorrow the law is likely to be in the government, it means nothing, it must be adopted in the Parliament and the Croatian Parliament must stand behind it, it is another rotten attempt to explain Bandic and Plenkovic in front of Zagreb and Zagreb. The Zagreb women and Zagrebans do not believe them, see how bad they have done Zagreb and believe me, it will pass in parliamentary elections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206575	We move to individual debates, Mr. Sasa Djujic is first, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206576	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I will also say at the beginning of my debate that, like my club, I will support this bill, I think this is a good solution for the people to whom it applies, but I want to point out here what I think is important to a few facts. So, like my predecessors, I think that this is a pre-election law, that you've had in these three years to bring in that you really wanted it and sometimes in my thoughts I come to the conclusion that it doesn't matter sometimes the motive of a law when it's passed because even if it's pre-election, if it helps people, it's good to bring but the shortcomings of such methods of making are then a whole series of disadvantages or wrong, half solutions. Here I would also like to say that this law is by no means a place in the labour and pension system, this is a purely social measure which is social assistance by all characteristics and by all features, and this was seen from the opening statement of the minister this morning. So this is called a national fee, logically it would be ministers, when you, as Minister of Labour and Pension System, suggest this solution, or this fee, that it's called a national pension, as some media people call it. But this is social benefits or social aid for a number of reasons. So the first is that it has certain criteria for people to exercise that right. The second is that they are related to the property criterion, let's say property censorship, a whole series of property censorship parameters affect whether or not someone is exercising the right to this fee. This fee is subject to review, so if someone had achieved it in this year, the audit will be done every year for those 800 kn and the man can easily lose it, and when it comes to pension, then it's a lasting right and for me, it would be fairer, if we said that, we introduce a national pension and who has acquired the right to a national pension, he'll get it right, and then he'll have it all his life, it would be a national pension and not now, let's say, if a single parent lives with his child, and then he gets a minimum wage on this 800 kn fee, and in the meantime, over a few years, a child who lives with him and they're part of the same household because he can't buy an apartment because we live in such conditions, and in such a country he gets a minimum salary of 3200 kn, then a man will lose that fee by the criteria you have in this law, he'll lose it's not ok. So, you should have suggested a national pension that if people got that right, they'd have it to death. And it wouldn't be subject to any revisions, censorships, etc., that would be a national pension, and this is one pre-election trick where you're going to say that our most affected people who are the lowest property because this government has given them the right to some pension that isn't. The only somewhat overwhelming reason I heard this morning from the minister why it's in your portfolio that would be exceeded at first glance is when you said that retirement arrangements would calculate it and determine the conditions and like them there'd be a lot of support for the citizens. Look, by the same key you could do this, this could be proposed by Minister Capelli in the resort of tourism, so let's say because this has to do with your portfolio as much as with tourism, and then you could say look, in every municipality we have a tourist community, so it'll be easier for citizens to come to tourist communities, so they'll manage it administratively because they have to pull data out of the social care system. So, Minister, this has something to do with you and the resort of tourism, who and the resort don't know the defenses, etc. So let's not paint. Say it openly, look, this is one solution that's not bad, but it's half-way, and that's why we're telling you. I would praise you ministers, if you had said we were going to introduce a national pension and 800 kn will have no criteria, because when we talk about the support in the economy that you gave to preserve jobs and your government, there were no criteria, there were no criteria, there who would pay the dividend and who would have the profits, everyone got this right support for jobs and that's okay for me. So also here, who is 65 years old doesn't have the conditions for retirement, gets 800 kuna national pensions, has the right and we don't question that decision anymore, we're neither valid nor calculating. It would then be a move from which you would see a concern for the citizens. Unfortunately, from what I've managed to sum up in these five minutes, even though it would take me another five of these for me here is the only goal of fighting for votes and this pre-election time of your party and for that I'm sorry. But I'll still support it because this half solution is better than none. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206577	Mr. Ante Babic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206578	And excuse me, we have one replica, Mr. Cell.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206579	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Djujic, it is clear that you have been in the party for a long time, that you have passed a party school as an experienced president of the former SDP forum. I'm not saying that as something negative, but as something positive, so you kept asking questions. On behalf of the SDP Club, a colleague of Maras is about to place him at the bookshop the day of the assembly, you proceeded in that spirit, and then you ask whether it's the Ministry of Social Affairs or the Ministry of Labour's intelligence and you focus on the form, not the content itself. In this spirit you continued to be a pre-election law, but it is a whole morning mantra that repeats itself, so you could do so as a pre-election law and in the mandate from 2011 to 2015, so there is an idea of intergenerational solidarity, you could discuss the name that this will be called, whose resolution is this, but what is important therefore that one of the most vulnerable groups will receive 800 kuna per month.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206580	Mr. Djujic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206581	I've been in a party for more than 20 years, since I was 18 years old I've been motivated by HDZ, let's say what's '90. Done, shutting down 101st, taking away the River Championship, totalitarianism conducted by your party in the '90s, I didn't want to look at it on the side, I joined the party to fight it. And I'm fighting it today. And maybe that's why I understand things more easily than your president who entered HDZ 41 years ago, I've been in a party twice as much as Plenkovic is in HDZ. So, that's why I understand these things better than him because that's why he proposes this crazy solution, and we, say me and my colleague Maras, who you've been apostrophe who's in a party as long as I have, we understand it, and I know it's incomprehensible to you because you now have to listen to your party boss, and then you can't even think about it differently because it's a party function, but this is why you're thinking about who you are now and you don't see, but the time will come and you'll realize that we're a colleague of Maras and I and some, colleague of the Voice, who we've been in a party longer than Plenkovic might still be right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206582	Can we move on? Can we? I'm going to get some coffee, so you guys can discuss it for five minutes, and then we'll come back, I don't know. Mr. Babic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206583	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, so I will be brief about this draft law in an emergency procedure, 5 minutes is not enough but I believe that all of us here in the Croatian Parliament come from different environments in the Republic and we know how many of the most needed in our midst, in fact those who do not have any income, and because of this proposal with 20 years of residence in the Republic and at 65 and over can achieve this national compensation of 800 kuna, which will mean a great deal to them. He says, "Some colleagues say, "and here I am going to look right back at my colleague, Maras, on behalf of the SDP Club, "that this law is mostly about pre-election purposes." And that's true, it shouldn't be kept secret, but it's not now, it's not this moment, not today, not this week. Every party, we are a country of parliamentary democracy going with the programme in front of its voters and in that programme it seems to me on page 90 we have finely said how and how we are going to introduce this national fee and what we are actually going to do about it and as far as I know it is foreseen for 4 quarters this year, and it has already happened in 2 quarters. So there's nothing to hide, everything is public and transparent what we promised and we do. So, as for the very proposal of this law, there were certain obstacles, Mr. Hrelja spoke about certain things and groups of citizens, in fact about individuals who appeared in a public debate under this law who had problems with certain things related to this law, which was mainly due to income, income or property censorship. Working in certain institutions we were two or three years ago and while she was here, there is now not a former Minister of Demography Ms Milanka Opačić she knows very well that we were conducting negotiations with the World Bank and that this property censorship was at the time and it was very much talked about. The fact is that in our society anything we receive in such a way would not, in fact, come up with resistance. Now, the law we're passing today has certain colleagues saying that it can be misused. Of course he can, like any other law. This law is proposed in good faith to help those most needy, those who have no income, and also in the fight against poverty. So, whether or not someone is going to abuse this law or to get those 800 kunas, we can actually control it through institutions that can implement it. Not only the Ministry of Demography but also the institution that will implement this HZMO has certain tools that can act to prevent abuse of this law or to minimise them. On the other hand, we all in our midst actually know who people are and who should be getting that help. Today, in my replica, I said that we do not need any additional administration related to these people because they are mostly on the islands in rural areas and should not, except in the physical sense of the law itself, ask these people to bring further assurances that would be necessary to meet such conditions. The minister made it clear that there is a mechanism and that it will not be required further from these people. On the other hand, I repeat, two things that have been said here again today, which is guaranteed a minimum fee and this new national fee institute. Through a guaranteed minimum fee, therefore, it can receive any citizen of the Republic of Croatia who meets the conditions, can receive a single male, can receive a foreigner, can receive a citizen under subsidiary protection. And exactly how and how one can receive a guaranteed minimum fee is prescribed. This is something else, this institute is mainly related to those people who have no income, i.e. those who are over 65 years old and who have a minimum of 20 years of residence in the Republic of Croatia. I am convinced that all those who see, follow, and for those, a group of people for whom this law is passed, welcome this law. It was about why we didn't bring it in '17, '18, long before, why we're bringing it now. So simply, through the National Reform Programme, through the Convergence Programme, we actually said and we had certain timings when and how we're going to pass certain laws. And in that sense we do not in any way deviate from what we have said. It's a good thing you did. In the meantime, there was a crown that stopped certain things, this one didn't and I believe it would. This law goes to the approval of all of us, and as far as I know, the SDP Club has supported it. [[Intruder: Mr. Babic's time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206584	You have two replicas. The first is Mr. Maria Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206585	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear fellow, yes, this bill really helps to combat poverty in our society and is aimed at those most needed and has recognised the opposition today on several occasions. Content they have nothing to object to this bill, then they look back at what hurts them. They were ruling, they had the opportunity to propose what they wanted to do before the elections, and they didn't. So, the term of office takes four years, as it is important for the first day of office, so is the last and last, and throughout the term of office this government has passed laws in favour of all of our citizens, we have shown this through the amendments to the Law on Oversight, where we have also wanted to help our most vulnerable citizens, and also through the many laws that we have changed and raised fees, and also in this term of this Government, pension has grown. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206586	Thank you, too. Answer, Mr. Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206587	Dear colleagues. Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleague Jelkovac. They are not naive, especially in the SDP, they know very well how and how the government works, so the moment you win the election, you are already in the campaign for the next election and everything you promised to the citizens, you should execute because they are actually citizens, you should decide in the elections, by preferences, or by the programme that you have or have not fulfilled. I deliberately did not want to talk in my individual debate about certain things that had happened long before, not long ago, when the SDP, the Kukuriku coalition was in power, when certain things were done, let's say, specifically at the ministry, today demographics, families, youth and social policies, when, with a minimum fee guaranteed, they introduced certain vouchers that were for the most socially vulnerable, i.e. in the fight against poverty. And that's true, so these vouchers themselves were one element in the fight against poverty, but some have abused it, as some will likely abuse this national compensation institute. That's why we have to fight it so it doesn't happen.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206588	Excuse me, time. - Mrs. Crescent. Dragana Jeckov. Replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206589	Thank you. Dear counterpart Ante Babic, I will stop the pre-election replicas for a moment and return them to the essence of this law, which you said was brought in good faith. Of course, that is exactly how it should be, however, abuse will be. We are here to frame the good law to make it as small as possible, to have as few opportunities as possible of this abuse as possible. Tell me how it will prevent someone who has a holiday home in Hungary, an apartment in Zagreb, from being a beneficiary of this national fee?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206590	Answer, Mr. Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206591	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Jeckov, I listened to your debate during the morning. You have very well explained certain things and certain remarks that you have made on the proposal of this law, but here, you have touched Zagreb and I can now talk about Split, Rijeka, some more attractive environments. But here, for example, from the east of Croatia, you come, say, from Slavonia, for example, you have a person 65 years old or older than those on some property, in Negoslavci, Đakov or Osijek, a property worth, but there is no income. So he of these houses, of this estate, of these walls can't live. It's obvious she has property and she's worth something, but she can't live on it. So neither now nor in the future, so there's no way he can have any income. I think these people deserve, and besides, it's a concern, we're a social society, socially sensitive and solidarity society, and I think they have the right to do that. And I think you'll support it. [[Thank you very much. Time.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206592	It's time, really. Let's move on. Mr. Ivan Celic has his own debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206593	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Respected secretary of state. We have before us a proposal for a National Compensation Act for the Elderly. The Constitution recognises or preferably decides to protect older people as vulnerabilities, so the Constitution states that the state is making them weaker, powerless, and others, because of unemployment or incompetence to work, providing carefree persons with the right to help, to settle basic living needs. Elderly persons are also listed in the 2016-2020 government programme, where it is stressed that they will be approached by changes in the pension system, provide appropriate institutional and outside institutional care for older citizens to ensure them a decent life after the end of the working life. Over the past 3 decades, the UN, in particular the European Commission and the EU, have systematically pointed to the problem of accelerated ageing and the consequences resulting from this, and have focused their actions on sensitising Member States to build policies tailored to the needs and care of older people. In its Europe 2020 strategic documents, the EU invested in social Europe towards social investment for growth and cohesion, including the implementation of the European Social Fund for the 6-year period by 2020, including the objectives, guidelines and priorities of action to reduce the negative consequences of population ageing. The rights for older people in the social care system are laid down by the Social Care Act, and they may be the cash benefits of which the most famous already repeatedly mentioned guaranteed minimum compensation, and the right to social services, which includes accommodation and home assistance services. It is estimated that in the Republic of Croatia about 60,000 people are older than 65 years. which do not meet the minimum conditions for the exercise of the right to pension. The practice of EU Member States is different, here it has been problematicd, so one part of the Member States, that part of the right to give, so for older people, it pays out of the social care system, in others within the pension system, so I think it's quite secondary to whether it's going to be called a state national benefit for older people or for national or social pensions. I note that in the social care strategy for older people, it is a goal in order. No. 3. the introduction of a national pension for socially endangered elderly people, therefore there was a change in the name, but the operator remained the same, which is the Ministry of Labour and the pension system. Older people represent a socially sensitive category of population that needs to be provided with additional conditions to enjoy their rights and have a quality life in their old age. Although older people are equal in their rights and freedoms with every other citizen, they are in an unequal position in relation to others when it comes to the enjoyment of their rights. So here we have the actual two variables. One person is older and another variable is low socioeconomic status. If we take, then these two variables, then we can definitely talk about one of the most vulnerabilities, the most endangered groups of the population and the states, there must be special care. Here I will mention, therefore, the amendments and additions to the Voluntary Health Insurance Act, where in one period when pensions grew slightly higher, it happened that there were tens of thousands of elderly people who belonged to that group, left without the right to volunteer health insurance, and there we had a situation, so these persons will pay more rarely additional health insurance and will thus diversify diagnostic treatment procedures, which will then increase the improvement of that older group of members of our society. So today’s modern society is focused on work and profit in many areas, the social climate prevails in which the goal is to be young, beautiful, capable, employed, and thus remain. However, this proposal for a Law on National Compensation for Older Persons in my opinion represents a significant contribution to climate change towards the perception of older people as a resource in financial and moral terms and as important stakeholders in social life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206594	Thank you. You've got replicas, so you'll be able to continue. The first line has Mr. Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206595	Comrade Cellic, here's a content replica so that it wouldn't be just politicizing. So, you said yourself that it doesn't matter to you what this fee is called, whether it's called compensation, national compensation, national pension, etc., that it matters that it's aid for, for this group of people. Well, I said in my personal discussion that it doesn't matter to me, I'd rather this be called a national pension and that these people, when they get it and they get it, then they have it permanently, and that there's no revision of censorship, income, etc., to be just two criteria, age and one who hasn't earned the right to retire. That would then belong to this resort and that would be a good and lasting solution for these citizens. So this is exactly what you said, help and social security, and that's what we're suggesting, and that's why this isn't the place in this vault, but it should have been in the welfare portfolio and it should have been called social assistance as it is. And I would be the first to commend you on HDZ if you had introduced a national pension that people would have permanently until death and there would be no revisions every year.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206596	Time, time. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206597	Well, dear colleague Giujic, I don't think I'd agree with you. It would be much better for me if this one, so today what we're talking about, compensation, national compensation for older people, let's say at poverty level, let's say that it's 2,485.00 kn, but it's 800,00 kn and it's still 800,00 kn better than 0,00 kn. Now, if we're talking, so the welfare portfolio, it has all its pluses and minuses. Thus, you further Stigmatize these elderly people and thus further emphasize their social status or low socio-economic status. And I will mention, therefore, as far as the Ministry of Labour and the pension system is concerned, there is a very important concept and everything that is covered by intergenerational solidarity. Therefore, in the context of this intergenerational solidarity should also be seen as a national compensation for older people.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206598	Thank you. Mr. Mouse, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206599	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow Cellic, for which elderly people are certainly one good thing. It's not enough money, of course, but for a country like us, we have to say it's certainly worth it. In organized societies, such things have been done long ago, and I think this is a government move that needs to be welcomed. Of course, 800 kuna people can't survive, but let's imagine when they had nothing. And this is one, I mean a good decision, and about raising the standard of citizens will probably be raised and their fees. I welcome this and I think this government has made and is working on a good path and that our citizens are protected from being without swearing at home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206600	Answer, Mr. Cell.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206601	Well, dear fellow Misic, here I agree with you, because indeed people of older age who have almost no income or have very small incomes are worth attention not only to social services but also to inter-resorial cooperation. So I'm going to bring up another vulnerabilities here, so they're addicts. You at that point, they are often on the sidelines of society and as soon as you have a problem if he comes within the public health system at that time the state automatically provides him with free health insurance so that he is not on the street and that he can provide health care to that very vulnerable population as best as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206602	Mr. Ante Babic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206603	Thank you very much. When you spoke about the Community Charter.../incomprehensible/... the social rights of workers of the European Council in 1989, then I will just point out that we as a state have also adopted a social care strategy for older people in 2017 until 2020. It is impossible and it is not correct to compare it with other countries. Somewhere there's really talk about national, state, social pension, fees, every country has regulated it in a different way. And you'll admit to comparing one Sweden that hasn't even had a war in the last 100 years and the Republic of Croatia in '91. until '98. In the years until peaceful reintegration, there were several tens of thousands of refugees and a very bad and social and economic situation that resulted in certain things that the state also noticed and then reacted through different institutes. Today we're dealing with it through this national compensation institute whether someone likes it or not.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206604	Answer, Mr. Cell.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206605	So, dear counterpart Babić, I agree with you, and we definitely cannot compare with some EU member states that are further north and west, I believe that by adopting this proposal for a National Compensation Act for Older Persons, Croatia will be able to call itself a more social state. As a healthcare professional, I know more about this health aspect and this public health aspect of providing healthcare to people of older age, and I can say that with our experts dealing with gerontology here, we can mate with modern European countries, I will only mention a quarterly prevention which is designed to provide people of older age with as much quality health care as possible to reduce the risk of hospital infections and to develop this extra-institutional health care.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206606	Mr. Ivan Shuker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206607	Thank you very much. As a health care professional, you probably know that most of these potential users of national fees and are already practically recorded, I think it is Article 82 or 84. The Health Insurance Act, therefore, is persons who do not have health insurance but under that law have received health insurance and are paid out of the state budget. The other thing I think is that here you should look differently at the potential recipients of this fee, the ones in the rural area and the ones in the urban environment because the reasons why they found themselves in this situation are very different, and if you look at how much there is.../incomprehensible/... from '45. any insurance with the basis of agriculture in HZMO by amending the law and when the Law on Tax on Catastrian Income has been abolished, that number of insurance workers has been reduced and that is one of the reasons why today, unfortunately, in the rural part, we will have a lot of users who will apply for this fee.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206608	Thank you. Answer Mr. Ivan Celic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206609	A respected colleague of Shuker's age doesn't deserve attention in this high house just before the elections the opposition says so. So, there are a lot of problems, I hope that also by adopting this National Compensation Act for the elderly, this hyperadministration which, in order to consume these rights, will be reduced to the least possible measure. So 800 kuna is definitely not much, but it will again allow certain people to pay the directors and some of the other things they need and I believe that as the standard grows in the Republic of Croatia, this fee will be increasing and higher every day as provided for in this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206610	And finally, Mr. Tomislav Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206611	Dear fellow Cellic, the national compensation for older people is something that should certainly be supported and any reasonable person will support such a thing at this time. Both the Government of the Republic of Croatia and all of us together show this dose of social sensitivity and that is a commendable move. In this part, I would warn of only one fact that I personally face in my town, and I believe throughout Croatia. Therefore, it does not apply to this ministry's portfolio and is not directly related to this law, but in that part of social care, we have a situation where some older people have great values in property, houses, housing, land and that these values after their death are shared among relatives who have not shown any social sensitivity to the member and their family. So this part about this law is something that is certainly commendable, which should certainly be supported, but ultimately you will have to consider this part of ownership, the property that such people have, or those that will get something from the state budget of those funds. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206612	Mr. Cell, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206613	Dear counterpart Klaric was already talking about it, so that certain people have real estate but they can neither hire it nor materialise it in any way at least to achieve some basic existential conditions. What's the problem, then, is also, and this will likely be in the next changes, or in the new Law on Social Welfare Activity, that's the problem of lifelong and life-long restraint where these people can be found on the road and certainly what needs to be thought about is that the register of persons who have signed a life-and-life restraint contract can be seen that one person cannot be, with 10 persons, sign that contract and thus the state can provide a safeguard mechanism for manipulations and abuses to be as little as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206614	Thank you. The next speaker is Mr. Branko Bacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206615	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Ministers, respected state secretaries, respected colleagues and colleagues, for the first time in sovereign Croatia, the Croatian Parliament, on a proposal from the Government, passed a law introducing a legal and financial instrument allowing citizens of the Republic of Croatia, our fellow citizens over 65 years of age, with very broad conditions, a monthly national fee of 800 kuna. During the morning we heard a number of remarks whether this should be indicated as a national fee, whether it should be as a social compensation, whether this should be run by HZMO or social care centres, whether it should be prescribed some other censors, conditions, bureaucratic, administrative difficulties for people to come up with such a fee, I would answer such remarks as that book proverb, the book, which says that the written book has 1,000 remarks and criticism, and it is not written, there is only one, and that is that it is not written. So that's the case here, if this is pre-election, it's not pre-election, if this is some sort of, if this is the fee someone else was supposed to be carrying out, not the Croatian Institute, if there's anything else to prescribe, it's in my view sub-region. It is important for Croatian citizens of older age and for such compensation to be made possible, to help make life easier for them. That was basic. Whether it was adopted today in the fourth year of office, before the election at the end of the term or has been passed before, is absolutely subordinate. Why? Because every time a similar, similar remark about how it was a pre-election trick, the law, the fees were also in the first round of tax reform and when income tax was cut and when there was a personal deduction and when children's deductions were increased, when they were coming down, coming down or changing income tax rates, when, when VAT was reduced, it was always, when we increased the minimum wage that is now in net amount of 3,250 kuna, always a fundamental observation when something good is done, when it is acceptable, when it is good, the opposition is its right to suggest that it is not in fact concerned with the citizens that in this case absolutely is. Above all, I care about helping older people in Croatia, rather than being pre-election, pre-election tricks, pre-election gifts made by the ruling party or by the ruling majority. So it's absolutely, such an observation is missed. It is good that something the HDZ wrote in its programme, in its term of office, and as Mrs Jelkovac said earlier, the term of office takes four years, is that you brought something in 1, 2, 3 or 4, it is important that you realized your election promise, that is what is particularly important. What you would certainly like to support is that HZMO has the capacity, administrative, professional to carry out this and that it calculates and delivers this kind of fee. And all those who are saying that abuse could occur, who say that the conditions are not sufficiently prescribed, in accordance with Article 12 of this Law, it is envisaged that the Institute once a year checks whether a person who is receiving such a national fee still fulfils the conditions, whether there has been a change, whether something wrong at the beginning of the bill has been calculated, whether he has now acquired a certain amount of money passing the censorship of the rules in Article 5 of the Law, so certain abuses, certain errors may be allowed to be sanctioned, and then clearly, if that is done on purpose, that money is returned. What's good is it's good to make this law this way. That he does not represent, assumes the problem, is not a problem for a person who meets the requirements of this money and gets to that fee and comes and that's what it is to praise. And if a simpler, better fuse is clearly found, the amendment can certainly cover it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206616	The first replica was sought by Mr. Milorad Batinić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206617	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Bačić, I know when the social care strategy was under discussion until the '20s, we at the HNS Club were then asked to be introduced in 2020. Turns out in 2021, it means the transition from one year to the next, so you wouldn't say that this is and we supported that strategy, and we think that this way is good, and by the logic of things, it's based on the program when it's announced that it's going to be.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206618	Thank you very much, Mr. Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206619	I thank Mr. Batinich for your replica... That's right. [[You can't hear a bogey from a bench.]] I think this, the introduction and adoption of this law is the result of our agreements to move into the realisation of this programme. Was that made in 2020? We had some other priorities at the time, then we increased other taxes, then we brought tax reform, we came up with a state budget. The moment when the government decided to move into this procedure, it was clear that this law was passed. I absolutely don't see anything controversial about it. However, the transfer or criticism of what has been brought here, I said earlier, has been completely missed. It is important for the institute to be established and to help citizens to live more easily, in this way and in this way, for national compensation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206620	Mr. Željko Glasnović has another replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206621	Dear Mr. Bacic, this is quite simple. I'm just wondering how you and the young gentleman from retirement and work and there the ministry will be filling out pensions. We have half a million people living in the Republic of Croatia on welfare, and we have a working relationship with those working at 1.2.1. Countries that have 4:1 ratios like Canada have problems filling this pension system. How are you going to maintain that system? I don't know, I should, there needs creative accounting and magic and voodoo. Secondly, some countries have simple criteria, simple criteria. You have older people, these pensions for, age pensions, standard pensions that are consistent with inflation, deflation, etc., and you have a job internship, that's a second pension. And if you want to work after 65. You can work. The last question is this. What is the pension system of the Republic of Croatia called '90s? in the account, how much money when was this independent state of Croatia declared? That's the last question.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206622	Mr. Bacic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206623	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A fellow Glasnovic, in order to better fill the fund, the pension fund, needs to establish economic growth, a reduction in the number of unemployed, or a priority increase and the number of employees. And that's what this government, I suppose, is familiar with, before this crown of crisis established the largest number of employees since 1990. With GDP growth, salary growth has been increasing and HZMO stands. But this fee will not be raised and paid on the burden of the pension fund on the basis of the contribution for pension insurance which is the funds for pension insurance here but will be paid from general income, hence, from, above all, taxes and other and other revenues of the state budget. Therefore, that part will not endanger pensions, nor the pension system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206624	Thank you. Mrs. Devereaux. Leakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206625	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Bacic, you said that the HDZ's bill fulfilled its pre-election promise. I found you in the election program four years ago, so you promised to receive a national pension, not a national fee, from a person over 65. which have no other sources of income, and Croatian citizens who have a residence in the Republic of Croatia at least 15 years old. The amount of national pensions will be determined according to the minimum wage amount and will be at least 40% of the minimum salary in the year in which the person is entitled to a national pension. So it's still not quite exactly what you said, so it's, that you're making a pre-election promise now because it was something else entirely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206626	Mr. Bacic, the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206627	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, we are pleased that you are reading the 2016 HDZ pre-election programme, there is much to learn and acquire knowledge on this programme and we are implementing it in this part as well. Now certain shades, I can agree with you, for example, we said that in the next 4 years. Then, four years ago. said we'd raise our pensions by 5%, so we increased them by 12. We said we'd increase the minimum pension, so we increased it by 15%. Meanwhile, there is a significant growth in GDP, meanwhile there is an increase in the number of employees, etc. etc. So, a lot of what we have promised in our election program we have done, not only have we done but we have done much more than what we have done in the election programme, such a programme will be now which we will achieve in the next term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206628	And finally, Mr. Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206629	Thank you, Vice President HS. Dear colleague Bacic, you said the opposition wanted to violate this bill. The truth is, perhaps, I'm sorry, at the very beginning, the minister actually said in his opening statement one thing that may have promoted many. It is that for this bill, there was a smaller working group, and then there was an extended working group. So, with the academic community, with professional people, with unions, with all those who could contribute to the creation of this law. Among other things, the Committee on Labour and the Pension System discussed the study of Prof. Bejakovic, who made one comparative analysis of all countries, all 100 countries that introduced certain fees, whether national, old or other pensions or giving or as compensation, and that was actually a contribution to this bill and the foundation of why 20 years. residences, why 65 C.E. And more. So it's a very serious draft law.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206630	Thanks, time. Mr. Bacic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206631	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear counterpart Babic, you're right, that's what the minister in his opening part said. Thus, social partners and trade unions and employers and scientific institutions participated in the draft law. So a number of the public were involved in passing the law itself. It's something that's been announced for a long time, this didn't fall from the sky, into the ribs. So it's like this, this instrument is announced, but it's only made now, but it's made and it's important. Therefore, I hear numerous objections from the opposition when it comes to the adoption of this law, we will see how they will vote on it whether they support it or not, it is on them, but they will give the best assessment of this law when we vote on this law. And like this now, their statements, their debates are, above all, in the function of their pre-election game, not the fact that they really have an objection to this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206632	Thank you very much. This concludes with the replicas and the next half hour will be positions on behalf of the club of representatives and independent representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206633	We now proceed with the Final Proposal of the National Compensation Act for the Elderly, the Emergency Procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 947. We're on an individual hearing that lasts five minutes. The first one's a colleague of Ljubica Maksimchuk's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206634	Thank you, Vice-President of HS, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Today is the proposal for a National Compensation Act. We've been discussing the bill almost all morning so far. We are aware that it refers to the most vulnerable group in our society, but this bill will at least make life easier for older people who do not have any income. The projections say that the fee would be eligible for 19 700 citizens in the following year. It is conditioned that they are over 65 years old, that they have not collected 15 years of employment, that they live 20 years of the last in the Republic of Croatia and that they have incomes in households less than 800 kuna per member of the family. Nearly 60,000 of our elderly have failed to meet the conditions for retirement, and it is evident that most women make up, so this results in women receiving more than one fee from men. Of course, a large number of women in rural areas who were shorter than men who participated in paid labor or who did not work at all, did seasonal work, or just perhaps engaged in agriculture. We are aware that 800 kuna is not much, but surely this most endangered group will be of great help. That the HDZ government is very socially sensitive we have seen throughout all these years, so that the minimum pension has recently been increased by 3.13%, so the pensions in this mandate have increased to 12% and the lowest to 15%. Of course, during the pension reform project the mothers were added another 6 months of employment for each child born or adopted, through the project They wanted, of course, the most vulnerable groups employed, these are women who were long on the labour market and could not be employed, but of course, what we should especially emphasize, and this is at the time of this coronary crisis where the government's intervention preserved a large number of jobs and, of course, intervened as quickly as possible and as quickly as possible, so here, I welcome and support the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206635	Thank you, too. There were no replicas to your exposure. Next up is colleague Karolina Leakovic, here's your co-workers.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206636	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. What my colleague Maximchuk was saying now, and what we've heard before from our new colleagues because it seems to me that some of the things that my colleagues and colleagues in HDZ have been saying all morning are being repeated all morning, I guess someone from the club wrote some of the thesis that you're going to be saying now and in the election campaign. So it turns out that HDZ has now proposed this National Compensation Act so that all women in rural areas who have not worked and have no 15 years of employment, and over 65 have received these 800 kuna. So, perhaps in a simple dictionary, you should say that not all women living in the rural area are older than 65 and have not worked to get 800 kuna because there are different criteria that can be met so that a person is a beneficiary, i.e. the beneficiary of this national fee. Just like colleagues and colleagues who used to speak from the opposition, or part of the opposition, I will say that I will uphold this law even though we are Mrs. In this morning's session of the Labour Committee, the pension system and the social partnership pointed to a number of shortcomings in this law, here, once again in good faith, I hope that at least some of the problems that we have pointed out will be taken into account, that you will respect some of the amendments that your colleagues will submit and that you are aware of how difficult it will be and therefore, after this period of adaptation this year, how difficult it will be for any of the following government to implement in the way you have proposed, so in HZMO this law. And I will also join those who have said that it seems to me that, therefore, this law should be the law passed in Minister Bedekovic's portfolio. Why was it transferred to Mr. Aladrovic, I don't know, maybe he's better listed in HDZ, maybe he's some new HDZ political star, so now he needs one of these laws. Since it has been shown in the present part of his mandate, and in particular when it comes to state aid measures to help entrepreneurs in preserving jobs, that although these were of course intervention measures should have been taken quickly, there have been many failures, and that in fact many workers, those to whom these support was actually intended, did not receive the full amount and support, but some entrepreneurs retained some of the state support. They are announced now, an audit has been announced, some new criteria have been announced, I don't know how it will work because here we read that pressures from entrepreneurship associations are coming, and we know how much HDZ is very happy to listen, so the requirements of the HUP are actually not retroactively applying these criteria or not revising support, and then, of course, in this context, this scandal that the media have discovered or which the media have pointed out these days, which is, in fact, the unintended use of funds intended for the employment of people with disabilities, since, of course, there were no criteria for which companies and in which activities, we support the actual preservation of jobs. I'll just point out that, of course, in relation to the health and economic crisis ahead of us, but even before that, in Croatia we're fighting poverty and Eurostat data actually say that some, some fifth of the population, so RH at risk of poverty, and the data about almost half or something even more than half of the population of the Republic of Croatia can't actually afford some extraordinary cost, whether it's about repairing a household apparatus, whether it's about repairing a car, whether it's about something third that's coming, indicates that even at this time before the crown, even though we've had a slightly more favourable economic opportunity, we haven't actually run a policy that would be a policy against poverty or a policy to combat poverty, so that this kind of palitative measures, here I will, but I don't think that it't really solve the problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206637	We've got one replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206638	Fellow Members of Leaković, of course that the national age fee according to its content, belongs in character to social care benefits. Of course it can be paid as children's payments from various systems are paid, it doesn't have to be HZMO at all, so it's possible to do that, it needs to be distinguished from where the money comes from. But what is not logical is that in most of these users guaranteed cash compensations, guaranteed minimum social care fees and the social security system has data, they also have for those who do not meet it, so it was certainly easier and more justified to arrange all of this in the social care system, or in this competent ministry unless it is intended to do this, some new construction site.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206639	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206640	As I said before, we also pointed out to the Secretary of State that their colleague Bedekovic should actually be taken into account as Minister of Demography, Family, Youth and Social Policy on this kind of social income or social assistance. But I'm saying, perhaps some other interests are behind the proposal that I was talking about earlier, so the national pension proposed by HDZ, and now turned into a national compensation, but actually remained in the same ministry in the jurisdiction of the same new HDZ political stars. I'm saying, although I'm well-intentioned and I don't want to repeat what my colleagues said this morning that it was pre-election, pre-election law. Here, I can't help but get the impression that there's still some of it in this.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206641	Thank you. Before continuing, a colleague, Lovrinović, is looking for a break on behalf of the Living Wall's Club of Representatives and let's change Croatia, please. ... No, you've raised your hand, now I can't, I can't do it anymore, don't be angry now, I mean. [[You can't hear a bogey from a bench.]] I have a Rules of Procedure here, an apology.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206642	Dear Vice President, in front of the Representatives' Club, let's change Croatia and the Living Wall for a five-minute break, which concerns this national fee proposal. We in the Party Change Croatia will support any increase, improvement of citizens' standards, whatever 100,00 kn, 200, 50,00 kn. But you promised three years ago. that you will enter this program. I'm asking you why you've been waiting for 3 years. Because you could pay people 3 years. $800,00 a month, and that would mean a lot to them in this crisis? You didn't do it, you did it two months before the election. It's quite clear that people, that you use such mechanisms, that you just rub people's eyes, that they simply vote in elections for you. You recorded that there are about 20,000 people living hard. I'm saying, we won't be against it, but you've thrown those people crumbs. I remind you that the average pension, today the pensioners can't live on average, they live on, from, of, of 2,500,00 kn, it's a poverty zone, let alone 800,00 kn. So, what is this, dear citizens? This is a show where 20,000 people will be divided by 800 kuna a month, and billions of kunas are being robbed in this country. Croatia has been robbed, why do pensioners have small pensions? Well, it's because Croatia's been thoroughly stolen. That's what this is about. And how are there going to be more pensions now? I can't, that's why the average pension is 39%. In that sense, I invite you, dear pensioners. On you, every month performs the most HRT due to non-payment of fees, you can't live. Let's change Croatia, make it finally different.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206643	Thank you. So in accordance with Article. I'll take a break until 14 o'clock and 25 minutes. Thank you. ... If, if you agree, it's not, it's not, slowly, so if you agree, it can be 5, I'm not audited, so at 14.20 we continue. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] It's 2:15 a.m. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 14.20 HOURS]] Next up is a colleague of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206645	Dear Mr. Vice President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, as I did in the debate on behalf of the club, said that this law is a major pre-election outflow of HDZ's love to the poorest citizens of Croatia, over 65 years old for small money and with a delay and that it is an illusion of concern for those older people whom we don't even know a number, we don't even know where they are because we don't have a review and distribution of poverty in the Republic of Croatia or in urban or rural areas. Regardless of what I said in the introduction or in the address in front of the MPs' club we will support this institute, we will support this institute because it is necessary because if we once introduce it, then we will fix it, and I guarantee you that by the end of this year, some new government here will repair this law because it is in one piece inconclusive. In one part it's inconclusive, you can laugh, you can scream whatever you want, but it would be nice to study the amendment that I sent you in front of the Club of Representatives of HSU, Independent Representatives and SNAGE because he's trying to solve the problem you missed. In fact, you have in the law a domestic situation, a narrative situation to ask those who in any way have paid their contributions and are receiving a pension, for example. Agricultural pension of 500 kuna family, such as those, are old agricultural pensions made before 1 January 1999. By 31.12.1998, you are asking someone to give up a pension resulting from a payment of some contributions or a one - time payment and to take over a national fee for age. It's a narcissistic situation, that you're asking someone who's been paying the contributions to give it up. It can't go like that. On the other hand, the Pension Insurance Act does not allow a person, on his own request, to give up his pension. If a person is hired to give up his pension, the person who dies is not paid more pensions, but at the personal request of the Pension Insurance Act, there is no such possibility. That is why we want to fix this amendment law to tell you that in these cases you should install an exception in Article 5(2) if it is such situations, leave that pension at your expense and add up to 800 kuna. A very elegant and normal legal solution. If you're not going to play and you're breaking the law, you're breaking the law, but you have a solution here in hand or in amendment. The second is the amendment more, I think it was your lapus in writing, it's more of a nomotechnical nature because it's been subdued into the law by a personification where you say that the data you're asking for from other services must be determined to define the rights. I don't think the data can be determined, only people can be determined, and that data can be decisive or necessary to determine someone's right, should I say again it's very elegant for you to fix the text of the law. It's not about the editorial, you could have seen it when you lectured, but it's our duty to make it right. And in conclusion, there's no need to do any new data file, new investment, new system in HZMO, it's not true that there are extra experts. HZMO has a shortage of professional workers to process pensions and issue solutions regardless of the large investment that you pompously announced of 166 million if I am not wrong about kunas in these systems, therefore this is unnecessary. for HZMO and for this ministry. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206646	Thank you, thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. Next is my colleague, Boric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206647	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, here's something I'd like to say about the National Compensation Act for the elderly because I think it's marked by three thesis that I'm going to tell you about. The first is the long-term promise that it will be introduced already, and we heard today about 20 years, there have been governments of different profiles in those 20 years, and apparently the government that had the power to write it down first in the election programme, and then put it in the government's programme and finally bring that and that law into the debate and I believe that we will bring it in regardless of the attempt to challenge it from those of whom we do not expect, who promote themselves on these groups of populations of older people as their own protectors who are unique and exclusive and relevant to care for them. Even the parties are called that way, they bought certain social groups and called parties such as the Croatian party of pensioners who should take care of these people, not only the pensioners, but also the elderly ones who have failed to exercise their rights, and in 20 years I say again, this government that has solved many other problems that have retired in 20 years, but have always been closed in the drawer, there was no courage. The second moment is, the solutions that are offered, I think they are very clear and that the criteria are set. So, for the elderly who haven't been able to collect 15 years of internships that live 20 years. in the Republic of Croatia and whose household, there is a certain income census that does not exceed €800,00 per household member. And about that, I say, today we are having a debate with the fact that unfortunately we had to listen to the threats of some parties worth 0.2 in all the polls, or they don't have any support of anyone at all, that they're going to clean us up because we're doing damage to this people by passing these laws. Unfortunately, there is no colleague who threatens to clean us up every day, no, together with the citizens, he's not even in the polls, he's not even in the assembly, and he just doesn't know how to answer them. When he speaks for the club, there's nothing you can do to him, when he needs something to say, then he's gone. It's simple, and the second is this 0.5% that somehow got back on the SDP and all the time tells us that we don't know the policy towards the pensioners, that this set of brains that was in the 2011-2015 period when Hrelja was part of that coalition, and that, a colleague of the Hrelja coalition, they succeeded with all the knowledge, whatever they knew and could, with all the ministers such as counterpart Maras or MP Djujic, were able to raise those pensions by about 4.6% if I looked at it well, with all the problems of that time, they were dragged away and the problem...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206648	A colleague of the Hill, please, you have yellow, I apologize, just a little bit. So, colleague, colleague Hrelja, license plate, table please, thank you. Please proceed.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206649	He's interrupted my thought now. I have to start over now. So, at that time, we remember those security guards from the Royal Security Service that the Temple of the Lord was very hard at stake and no one wanted to respect him. Look here, here's the situation. My colleague Maras never experienced him at all in the government, he didn't want to raise his hand for anything. But the government came and solved it. This government has managed to solve it. Who's the biggest opponent of this government? It's just a retirement party. Why? Because in this term, as far as I was able to track, no matter what the problems and everything we inherited, we managed to raise those pensions by about 12 percent of all. For the lowest, I think, about 250,000 citizens and 15%. So that bothers them and they were against all the laws here. Today they come out as protectors, we'll do anything for you, whatever it takes, we'll solve everything. And then the funniest situation. I'm reading Mr. Hrelje's interview three months ago on this subject in one portal. He says this is Mr. Plenkovic's biggest nonsense. And today he says, I support it. That's the stupidest thing and that dead-end job. Can you imagine the way that this line of dignity of individuals who have taken the right to speak for themselves on behalf of certain groups and who do not want to help them? When they are offered what it is, as they have said, such aid, 800,00 kn monthly is not small, it is not too safe, but they say it is not good and yet since it is not good for the SDP Club and colleagues of Hrelja they will vote for it. Thank you. I thank you, we'll bring it back without you as well as anything else so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206650	Thank you. We have three replicas, first fellow Djujic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206651	Thank you very much. Comrade Boric, so this very last sentence of yours, we will bring it along without you best paints the entire policy of your government, say in this crisis, all the time you're acting me, me, me, and just me and okay and continue to act. This one, in a month's time, it won't matter at all what you want or what you don't want anymore, so that's it. But what, what do I want to tell you? So we've also been making a series of suggestions all this time while you've been in self isolation on this island of Rab, in Lopar, you weren't here in the assembly, you probably listened to Mr. Capak who then said "stay home don't go anywhere" this day saying something different, he should have said it before, so he wouldn't deny us for these discussions of yours these months and a half. But look, this is a scam. We're gonna support this, but this isn't a permanent solution, this is subject to review, that's what we're talking about. We've been making suggestions to make this proposal better. Why didn't you give a national pension that would be permanent, so that when people exercise the right to 800,00 kn to have it to their death And not every year you do a review? [[Intruder: Thank you, colleague Đujic]] After the election you'll say we were joking. [[Intruder: Thank you, colleague Đujic]] Here's the review you're no longer entitled to, the election's over.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206652	Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206653	Thank you very much. Dear Chairman, you keep letting him pass the time. I think at some point you can say whatever you need to say. Comrade Djujic, I'm just telling the truth, I didn't say anything wrong. But the truth is it actually surprised you, too, because as far as I can see, you've decided that even in this time you've now called pre-election you're rebooting yourself. So, to declare absolutely everything that's happened for you and for you that it wasn't, and that you're all new people and colleagues, Djujic and colleagues Maras and colleagues of Hrelja because when you restart practically from the beginning, we're all going from a new one, like you're out of a diaper, and I'm talking about the time where you still made decisions. And that time has certain numbers being monitored and you can't tell me that you raised 30% if it was 4%, and we can say how much it is, but you want to challenge it and say it's not true. It's true and that's where citizens have to see or know who stands for them, who wants them well, and who just wants to act like they want to do something, and they're basically against everything. And that's true.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206654	Thank you. Replica No. Two colleagues of the Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206655	Comrade Boric, your pride is never enough. But we remember a long term here and I stand behind every word I've said and when I say that this law will go into 2 readings, that the procedure will be respected, that the opinions of the ombudsman will be respected as the powers of HS. And I also know the failures of former governments and yours because your governments were 20 years ago. when I came to this assembly and your governments were promised and I said despite everything, despite the hollow law, despite the passing of the law in pre-election time this institute in the function of fighting poverty for which you do not even know what it is or will ever know is needed by the Republic of Croatia. And that's the only reason I'm voting for this.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206656	Thank you, thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206657	Thank you. I'll read your part of the interview that you, Hrelja on the government's announcement of national pensions, let the flaws of the work, and in an interview I would ask Minister Aladrovic and Prime Minister Plenkovic to step down from this nonsense...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206658	A colleague of Hrelj, a colleague of Hrelja according to Article 239. I am warning you Thank you, too. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you, notice.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206659	A parliamentary representative who holds on to his dignity after making excuses in public space, then comes here and says I support it, but it's nonsense, it's a dead end job. What will you support? That's why I said, we can bring it in without you, as we've solved, and that question of these Royal security guards means even though you've done something for them, as we've solved, and everything we've promised our pensioners and you've denied the right, my father is a retired man he'll never vote for him no matter what his party's name is and wherever he's buckled. They just don't want to understand it, they're really making some kind of confusion between these people, and they think that when they're here, they're voting for HSU that they're going to solve something for them. They didn't solve anything, four years when they could, nothing.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206660	Thank you, thank you, thank you. Replica number three, fellow Maras, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206661	Thank you very much. Comrade Boric, you've seen, you've prepared a lot for your debate, you've been spinning this little piece of paper, there's probably weeks of preparation to sum up on that page, so I'm interested in your thinking about why right now. It means whether it makes sense for you to raise or to give this supplement at the time of the drop in GDP is 10% and at the time of the growth in 2017. Three percent of them didn't think about it then. Is that a coincidence, a coincidence, or what happened here? So, is that where the government may have caved in under your efforts because you've worked hard within the HDZ to figure out that measure, say, the citizens would be very happy to hear it. If this is about your involvement, here's what I'm going to publicly commend you for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206662	Here's my colleague Boric's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206663	Thank you very much. I'm used to it. I'm used to it from you. I'm getting ready for my debates, I'm not like you guys to be able to get out of the kitchen so I can run to the assembly and talk about everything and everything right now because it just ends up kind of in a way that doesn't turn out to be unserious. What I was talking about yesterday, the way you're making fun of this headquarters, crisis headquarters and individuals in it just says that about you as a person, no. Unfortunately, you weren't here yesterday, so you didn't listen to it. It's just that people who have never done anything, there's nothing behind them, and today they give themselves the right to really give everyone lessons about everything, about all the areas of life, to know everything. What's behind the rest? After their term of office, nothing, ten thousand shut down companies, crafts, except a few memories of travel to Las Vegas, an elevator you traveled with as a minister, and that's the only thing you can go out with in front of the people and maybe the people will accept it, I would never vote for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206664	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. There's a colleague, Maras, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206665	Thank you very much, thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, give me a few seconds to come to my senses after Mr. Boric's reply because he really scored and it's hard to catch the thought after him now that he gets you rhetorically. Here, I'll try to keep going. So, colleagues and fellow MPs, Mr. Vice President, what I said at the very beginning, I'll keep talking like that. So, it is very illogical what the government is doing, it is logical to help people who need help, but illogical to do it literally in the last hours of the term of office because it will probably be at the last vote on Monday when the Croatian Parliament is disbanded and that it has not been done 3 years earlier. So that would be something that would make it very difficult for any of us in the opposition to do it for the sake of choice. So if you do it in 2017 until the election is 3 years, but if you do it now in the 5th month of 2020 then it is known that it is only for election and more application and 1. 2021, so that's something that's very obvious. But not to worry about whether the citizens will recognize it and whether they recognize the whole moment and whether that magic around the headquarters and the expertise flew away as it was present at the moment, means if I'm telling you this with a view to telling you a lot of beliefs, believe me, I listen to what the citizens say every day, I watch what journalists ask at these press conferences. I see Prime Minister Plenkovic disobeyed my advice, so I strongly recommend that he once again put that headquarters in self-insulation at 2 o'clock because he has the damage right now. I wish that headquarters had presses until the election, every day and every candidate on the list, here I would love it. Otherwise, I think that Mr. Capak, unfortunately, destroyed his potent political career the day before yesterday, means that he didn't, if he hadn't celebrated himself with this self-insulation statement, he'd probably put the HDZ on the list, so I doubt he'd put it on, and I think it's a good idea to stick to his profession and it would be good if HDZ had removed completely from that headquarters and eventually had damage and expertise in Croatia, because no one would ever trust people who are professional because of this situation in this way, put their paws on headquarters and hired absolutely all HDZ officers in that headquarters. So there are no party people who are not, who are away from HDZ. So I can't wait for Mr. Boric and the campaign and the elections, but I have to think about the voters, especially the City of Zagreb. So I can't go to the elections unless the Zagreb and Zagreb women know when they will return to their homes, how the state will help them, whether the state will help them, can't be satisfied with the little things and crumbs that Prime Minister Plenkovic promised to pay for the rent of the apartment or that Štromar will give 20,000 to chimneys and roofs, as long as we don't have a clear message from the state that he will stand behind Zagreb and Zagreb, that schools and hospitals will immediately be renewed, that people don't have to collect in his arrangement money. I'm talking about Petrova, the hospital, or the schools downtown. Until that moment of choice shouldn't be and I think it's a very simple message. Even these spin-variances that say that some law will be passed in the government and we will go to the elections, and when the Parliament is again formed that the law will be passed, I don't think it has anything to do with the relationship because when you give in the Parliament's term of office, it ceases to be and must be re-proposed by one and the same. So I would like the HDZ people to understand that the Zagreb and Zagreb women will not forgive them, nor will they approve anything. I am convinced, people who have received 800 kuna today or will receive in 2021, but Zagreb and Zagreb will not forgive the coalition and support of Bandic and that Zagreb is forgotten, and Zagreb is forgotten. Enough to walk around town and see what it looks like. So it's a shame that the capital of the Republic of Croatia two months after the earthquake looks what it looks like. That Bandic's godmothers make huge money on the Zagreb accident and that the law is still missing. And Italy passed the law after the earthquake in 40 days, in 40 days a law was passed in Italy, in Croatia, the capital of the Republic of Croatia has already been 2 months, there is nothing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206666	Thank you. Two replicas, first fellow Djujic, followed by counterpart Branko Martinchev. Here's my colleague, Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206667	Thank you very much, Vice President. Comrade Maras, at the end of your debate, you essentially showed things how this government is doing everything wrong because to do what is right, we would be discussing this very law today, about the restoration of the city of Zagreb. And we would have discussed this a year or two ago. But we won't have the law to rebuild the city of Zagreb and you said this well today, so we're going back to normal, the Post has given in all measures, the crowds are in town. I don't know if you see it, half the city is closed, so you can't get to the center. You have to circle around because, I don't know, the city has either an incompetent mayor or has a bad government that hasn't done anything, and now we're discussing the law we were supposed to discuss two years ago, and the law we were supposed to discuss a month, a month and a half ago we're not even discussing today. And that's what needs to be pointed out and you're right, the citizens see it and the citizens will value it. Two months is close, but It's far enough for people to see [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Everything this government has [[Intruder: Thank you.]] it also works in what interests; and [[Intruder: Thank you.]] For whom and for whom. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206668	Thank you. Comrade Maras, here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206669	Thank you very much, Mr. Giujic. Not to talk about months now and that someone is hoping that the election will be as much later as possible so it will be harder for HDZ, I'm sure at this point that this spell has disappeared around the Staff and that in a month and a half now you'll see what it's going to look like together. So I'm even in favour, if Monday's Parliament disbands, the election will be as soon as possible. Not the weekend when it's a holiday, but 28.6. I think it would be the most convenient date for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia if HDZ is making elections for itself. So, you don't think I'd like to go through with it, I want it done as soon as possible because believe me, citizens will recognize the HDZ it does, how it works and why, I would say, is in a hurry to vote, and on the other hand, in the city of Zagreb, which is why Bandic continues to support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206670	Thank you. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206671	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, colleague Maras, you keep saying that this law is passed, that the government is bringing in this pre-election time and that it has done so far. All the time this government has been taking care of and taking care of the most vulnerable, about pensioners, about women, from the very beginning it can be seen that precisely during this government pension has increased by 12%, which is twice as much as the 3 previous governments. Minimum pension increased by 15%, 14 thousand pensioners now have the opportunity to work part-time. We have a project called Desires that provides help in the house for older and powerless, hiring women who are most vulnerable and in poorer status. An additional six-month period for each child born and adopted is also possible, so it does not say that this government has done nothing about the most vulnerable at all times and that this law is passed only at this pre-election time.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206672	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206673	Thank you very much, ma'am. Branka. So that's your vision, but I'm only talking about the fact that this law could have been passed three years ago and it hasn't. So it's only timing that says it's pre-election law. If people all say it's a pre-election law, if it's an impression, it's done in two readings, or in one reading, it means in an emergency procedure to get to this, so that some people, though, won't feel it, no. How many of these 20,000 people will even become aware that they will receive some money in 1.1.2021, then. It would have been much more effective if it had been done half a year earlier. So if there's any use for the government, it's supposed to be there. What's done now, I guarantee you that out of those 20,000 people, no one will even realize that there's anything until they're right in 2021 or until they can get the money. The timing is the only one suggesting it's a choice. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206674	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. Next is colleague Željko Lacković, please welcome colleague Lacković.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206675	Thank you, Vice President. So, I would like to say through this debate, that something that we have pointed out today in the presentation and presentation of this legislative proposal on the Committee on Labour and Pensions. Namely, it's an art. 5. which prescribes a circle of persons who make a fee or disqualify them from exercising the right to compensation, so to speak. Paragraph 5 of the 5th century says he did not enter into a life-restraint contract or a life-restraint contract as a maintenance recipient. I would like to point out that these contracts are actually bilaterally legally binding contracts. So if you went after not to, this national fee is not considered a pension but a certain kind of social compensation and that property censorship is not the key to winning, then you have to be aware that these contracts are actually a property censorship, and you used it and you shut it down. So, we excluded those people who have no income, and they have hundreds of thousands of euros in the bank or they have children who have, to whom they have prescribed their apartments, if they meet the other conditions, they will be able to exercise the right to a national fee by not looking at property, property censorship, and here you put the property censorship in section 5. Now, I believe that many older people have concluded with their children a variety of contracts from the fact that they have more children that those who live with them leave that property and that these contracts are executed in one way that children should actually take care of their parents, and you have excluded those people or persons by introducing this section 5. What points to the additional unfairness of such a solution, and I have made an amendment to add item 6. It is that those persons who would have the right to a national compensation do not exercise the right to support their mate and the outsider mate and children. So you need to know that it is the obligation of parents to support children per article. 281. Family law, but it's also an obligation for children to support their parents. So this is both right and obligation. So you can't admit to a right if, on a national charge, he won't use the right he has under the law and allows his child to support him. If we said it didn't matter, but why does it matter what you prescribed in Art. 5. What is your total contradiction? I therefore believe that, for reasons of justice or to remove Article 5, or to introduce this 6 and thus to equate all those who have someone, they have a legitimate legal right that prevents them from this law, that they may seek, and if their children cannot give them or on a vertical line have no one to ask for it, then it would be fair to grant them that compensation. I also believe that this is important from the economic justification of the availability of the state budget, we see that practically these funds will be covered by loans because the state is in debt, and then we deploy these funds most justly and we keep an eye on each kuna in the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206676	Thank you, too. We continue with an individual debate, next is colleague Tomislav Žagar, here's a colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206677	Thank you, Vice President HS, distinguished ministers, respected State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. So, in the introduction, I immediately say that I will support this legislative proposal. My colleague Hrelja has announced amendments, one is more technical, and the other is much more serious, I hope you will accept it. What we can say is that the task of every society, including Croatian society, is to fight poverty. We are not the only country in which poverty is taking more and more swings, but we are the country where the measures we are fighting against poverty and our strategy often collect dust in a drawer and we do not use them enough to prevent all the risks that lead to poverty. In this regard, I can say that this legal proposal solves the consequences, not the cause, but the consequences, and enables all older people of 65. which failed to meet the conditions necessary for retirement, therefore, from different or different objective and subjective circumstances, 15 g. an internship, cannot achieve any income or social benefits from the Ministry of Social Affairs, at the request of those receipts, they do not want to receive such a form of income because it simply makes them less valuable, so to speak. So this legal proposal solves the consequences. What my colleague Hrelja said in his, in his, in his debate on behalf of the club, it seems to me that it is very important to mention, the responsibility for the emergence of poverty or the coming into poverty of a particular person is not just her responsibility. In many cases, it is society's responsibility. If we remember ourselves, it was all a long time ago in 2007, if we remember Cardinal Bozanić's letter about the sin of the structure, if you remember the basic line of that letter in which he says that individuals, individuals networked in their private interests, made it impossible for many to come to their legitimate interests and which with this sin structure made it possible to enrich individuals at the expense of many and today we inherit these problems precisely through the poverty that is being manifested today. So it's not just an individual who's guilty of his condition because poverty is the most common permanent state, it's hard to get out of it, which makes this bill make sense. When we talk about permanent problems of poverty in the Republic of Croatia, then we cannot avoid structural problems. If we look at HZZ data, if we try to classify unemployed people by age, by gender and by age, then we see that at the risk of poverty in a few months, here we take 10 years as a reference framework, it becomes a person over 65. We can expect at least 30 to 40,000 of these persons, and among them are women, because in all age groups on HZZ there are women who are, who are, who have a larger number. Of course, the situation for employment is people, and here we are, I have only observed people over the age of 40, that their employment is difficult, especially when it comes to women, very few who will hire them, especially now at times when the crisis is coming and therefore there is no doubt that this law is necessary. What we can expect, as my colleagues warn, has now seemed very, very, very important to me that my colleague Lackovic also noted regarding this, with the life or life support agreements. In the future, then, it will be necessary to think carefully that this law is not unfair in its implementing part, so that many who should receive this compensation do not get it, and those who should not, in turn, get it. So it's going to take control. In the end, I'm going to do it anyway. I'm going to give it a review. I also believe that this should have gone into two readings, and not as early as possible, so that more things could be adopted, to improve this legislative proposal. Since there is, closer elections, I can't take the impression that it's pre-election law either. You know why? Because those funds will need to be provided by another government. And another one, Minister, a note, I must tell you. Yesterday we saw in the budget rebalancing that there were no funds for additional health insurance that were announced to the people to whom the state would pay.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206678	Thank you. That's what ended the individual debate. Now we have one application for a final hearing. It is the application of a colleague of Lovrinović in front of the Living Wall's Club of Representatives and let's change Croatia, finally. Here's my colleague, Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206679	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I especially welcome you citizens because you are the only one who matters here. You write a lot to me. Why do I talk when there's no counsel. Well, respected citizens, I don't speak to MPs at all because they have the views of their parties, their leaders, and I want to represent your interests here. The peace system is permanently unstable in Croatia. I would like to remind you that the average pension in 1999 was 75% compared to the average salary, which is 39% today. The pensioners, the average pensioner gets 2500 kuna, it's a poverty zone, of which you can't live. It's about 2,000 years ago. In '99, 2000, the World Bank here found fertile soil for its idea to convince the political furniture at the time, and then it was on the SDP stage that by some miracle, to launch Project II. The pension pillar and Croatia agreed to it. Slovenia never, even Serbia, you see. Croatia is the only country, not in the EU, but in Europe that has II. Retirement column. That's the model Chile's been going through, keep track of the situation in Chile for the past few months, for the last year, two, what kind of riots are due to a bad pension system in Chile. That's not what we're discussing here. We even came into a situation today that this government wants pension funds, mandatory pension funds to be the most important financiers of saving the Croatian economy, so that they, not banks, can be in debt with the CNB from 5 to 15 billion kuna, and that is the project, you see, dear citizens. What solution do we from the party change Croatia offer? So we offer solutions to major problems. The solution is to transform II. Retirement column. In what way? There we could use the solution of Hungary and the Czech Republic. What did they do? Within 60 days, it is up to all citizens who had no choice but to be forced into II. The pension column and citizens could only choose which fund. The Hungarians said like this, here's 60 days, all of you decide, will you be in the I. Mandatory pension fund, guaranteed by the state, or will you be in a voluntary pension fund where there's no investment limit, but for you there's no guarantee of a state. If you decide to transfer your money from II. Get into a voluntary fund, write down a request. All of you who do not write the request will feel that you want to go to the I. pension column or to the mandatory pension fund. And there over 90% of the members have gone to the I.P., meaning solidarity, intergenerational solidarity. What are the consequences for Croatia, if we do this and we will implement it as a party after the election. The public debt of Croatia will be reduced to a maximum of 45%, and now it means, due to this crisis, it will reach 90%. 45%, tops. It will heal public finances, there will be no deficit of the state budget per year. He's going to grow pensions. How, how's he gonna raise his pension? Dear citizens, you are not familiar with the data, most of you, that from the time of establishment II. It enters these one 16, 17 years the only ones who have earned clean money, these are pension fund management companies, which it has 4, owned by foreign banks, so our pension system is privatized in II. The pillar, it's not us we decide. It's the foreigners. So that 9, 10 billion would remain for you, dear pensioners, if it were done properly, not to draw that money and transfer it abroad. It's a word of over nine billion kunas, commissions, fees, this one, that one. So we need solutions, but here they are shining over the media that are being paid, which, I don't know what, uh, you've been making all the arrangements, but there's nothing out of those false promises. Our pensioners are getting harder and harder to live. These are the most carried out and the most likely cause, most often the HRT is based on subscriptions. They are the subject of blockades, therefore, the elections and respected pensioners and dear citizens come, let's open our eyes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206680	Thank you. Thank you. We now have an intervention on behalf of the motionor. Minister Josip Aladrovic. Here you go, buddy. That's it. Actually, go ahead, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206681	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, honourable MPs, respected MPs. Here, a multi-hour, very interesting debate and this, in fact, I would like to thank all those who participated in the debate and, of course, with their constructive proposals contributed to the debate itself. What with this debate and all that we have heard today, in some way as a proposer, is that we have received signals to, therefore, make a positive statement about this law and we believe that it is therefore in such a way that a certain consensus is achieved and that what we propose HS is indeed a quality document that solves certain structural problems that have accumulated for some time. As for the timing itself, so what we could hear about the timing and the process of lawmaking, I would remind you once again, that we have defined this law as a law within our age-old strategy, that it is defined as a deadline in which a legislative solution is to be adopted in 2020. That doesn't mean this law is quick to come up with. I'll remind you one more time, so we're already 2018. with the Institute of Public Finance, they analysed that during 2019. The established working group, which is practically one longer period, for almost a year, has been grinding this law and grooming it to actually this level that we can see today and, of course, we expected implementation during 2020. Finally, it can also be seen from the official documents of the Government of the Republic of Croatia where the legislative action plan was drawn for 2020, and in 2019 certain segments, in 2020, certain segments through the national reform programme. So as far as timing is concerned, I think we've made it very clear here that the timing is what we expected and plotted before the law itself or when it was defined. Another issue, another question that has been raised, is this law more related to social security or the pension system? And I said it again, but I'm going to do it again, so there are very uneven practices with similar legal solutions, it has certain elements and social security, but also certain elements of the pension system. What we have decided, therefore, is for the Ministry of Labour and Pension System to be the holder of this law and for HZMO to be an implementing institution because of the level of efficiency, because of economics and ultimately because of certain knowledge, technical assumptions and human capacities to be an implementing body. So I think it's a good decision, and I think that this way we will be very effective in solving all the requirements that arise about this legal solution. And finally, what we could hear in the debate, so about the financial effects of the law, we made very clear in the assessment of the fiscal impact, which are financial burdens for the next period. Of course, we expect that over time, the number of users will grow as is usually happening in such situations, but of course the indexation provided for in the law will also follow the increase, so these national fees that are actually being determined in this legal solution only as the beginning and I think at the end, and I will end up with that, that this way a very strong message has been sent about this one set of societies that belong to the most vulnerable groups that we have not forgotten about them, that we have also politically shown that we care about this, this vulnerable group and that we have in fact all of what we have promised in the programme itself, but that we have recognized as a social need in this way. Thank you, everyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206682	Thank you, too. We have two replicas on your exhibit. He is his first colleague, Lovrinović, and after him, a colleague named Žagar, here's a colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206683	Dear Minister, you would know what a retirement position is if you had an average pension of £2.500,00, only then would you know how pensioners live, especially if they have less than € 1,000,00, and there are tens of thousands. HDZ and SDP destroyed the pension system, an army of privatisation workers, robbed companies, developed defenders where they had nothing to do, was filled. You've all made a social system out of the pension system together. It's not a pension system, there's no pensions of decent work, human work during his work hours. So we have an insecure system. You're here, so celebrate what we're going to support. I said it's a 50,00 kn increase, I'll support it, but these are crumbs. Dear citizens, if you want to eat crumbs of these governments then only a dear God can help you, no one else can help you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206684	Thank you. Here's your answer if you like. Would you like some? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206685	Dear Mr. Lovrinović, well, here I am only going to make short contact with hard indicators or figures about what was done in the previous period, and we could hear it in the presentation of other parliamentary representatives. So 12% have increased pensions in this government's term. The lowest pension, therefore the pension that assumes the most vulnerable within the pension system, is increased by 15% and this increases, when compared to previous periods, two or three times as large as the previous periods. The peace system is complex, but it is also not a feature of the Croatian pension system but of pension systems as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206686	Thank you, too. And replica no. Two, here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206687	Thank you, Vice President HS. Dear Minister, yes you're right, that's the dilemma whether it's from the pension system or from the general taxes? In fact, by eliminating employment contributions of 1.7% and by actually transferring to health insurance in that part of the contribution, we have and, we have lost that potential that perhaps here is the problem we are solving through a contribution to employment. Because the problems that are going to arise tomorrow and that these people today have that haven't achieved their right to retire is exactly the fact that they're unemployed. They're not unemployed by their own free will, but they're gone. There's no job for them. I guess also because of their age structure and they'll probably be in a situation tomorrow that they'll have to use this kind of, this type of help. They do, they'd have a little more resources if it were from such contributions, but then we're back in the situation of burdening the economy. It's these circles and questions that it's not easy to answer, but that's the fate of the government, she has to find answers.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206688	Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206689	I thank the representative for asking. So, as far as it's concerned, it's a complex system, it's a system that's tied up, and it's a very connected and social and pension system or social benefits system with a pension system. However, once again I will take the opportunity to repeat, here we are talking about a new institute, we are talking about an institute that protects those people who have been actually marginalized in a formal legal sense and who had no right to any, no income. In view of these facts and the fact that this fee is financed from the general revenue of the budget, therefore we cannot bring it into line with contributions to pension and health insurance, we believe that this institution is very necessary, very positive in the resolution of the entire social and pension policy in the Republic of Croatia itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206690	Thank you, too. Thank you all for participating in the dynamic debate on the final proposal of the National Compensation Act for the elderly, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 947. That concludes the debate, and we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206691	We are going to make a statement on the amendments to the Final Proposal for a National Compensation Act for the Elderly, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 947. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives, MP Miranda Mrsic, the Party of Labour and Solidarity Club and Independent Representatives, MP Željko Lacković, representative Goran Maras, SDSS Club of Representatives, HSU Club of Representatives, SNAGE and Independent Representatives. The review of the amendments has been sent to you by electronic means. I would like to ask the proposer's representative to take note of the amendments submitted, State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour and Pension System Majda Buric. Please, first of all, Amendment 1 to the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206692	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. The first amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206693	It becomes an integral part of the law. 1. SDSS counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206694	The amendment is not accepted by reason that the proposed national fee is a fee that can be made by a Croatian citizen aged 65 years and beyond with a long-term permanent residence. It is unacceptable to exercise the right of a particular group of non-citizens of the Republic of Croatia and have not reached the age of 65 and have a short-term residence of 10 years. In this way, the basic conditions for the exercise of the right to a national compensation are adjudicated, making certain persons in a more favourable position than the other applicants.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206695	So we must vote on this amendment because there is no representative of the applicant. Third amendment Club of Labour Party Representatives and Solidarity and Independent Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206697	The amendment is not accepted. In the event of the termination of the life-restraint contract procedure, there is a uncertainty of the final outcome of the court proceedings, and it is therefore proposed that, until the end of that procedure, a person cannot use the right to a national compensation because this could lead to the inability to settle the demand in the event of a negative outcome. Also, a person in these cases may benefit from social care rights until a court case is closed.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206698	There are no representatives of the applicant, so we will vote on this amendment. We are now on the fourth amendment of MP Željko Lacković
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206700	The amendment is not accepted by reason of the proposal for reduced conditions for the exercise of the right to maintain family members in respect of the conditions laid down by the Social Care Act for the exercise of the right to guaranteed minimum compensation.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206701	The applicant is a respected representative of Lacković.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206702	I thank and welcome the secretary of state, so I am not satisfied with such a solution, and I have shown you during the debate on the Law on National Compensation that you have brought an unfair position to those persons who have therefore concluded bilaterally legally binding agreements with their children, so a life and life support agreement. If this is a reason to exclude yourself from receiving, then you have indirectly come into conflict with the intensities of the law that material status is not reflected in the exercise of that right. To be plastic, it means when you and your parents have a right to meet other conditions, you contract life support just to be cheaper in the event of death, use the right and obligation that the law provides... in Article 1, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: In 281. to provide your parent with restraint, you cannot, or your parent, obtain the right to a national fee and let's say I who do the same but didn't make a contract with my parents, so I can. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So this is contrary to you, this is a question of even the constitutionality of this provision and I believe that you should either accept this amendment by introducing paragraph 6 or excluding what you have provided for in paragraph 5, I request a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206703	Thank you. The fifth amendment of Attorney Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206704	The amendment is not accepted by reason of what is proposed as a condition for the exercise of the right to national compensation for older persons and this should be income or income rather than asset censorship and, if there is a discrepancy between income and assets, for the examination of that disproportionate or potential discrepancies, the IRS is competent.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206705	The applicant for the amendment is a respected representative of Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206706	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. It is clear that it is necessary to enable people who have low incomes or do not have them at all and in some way help them in their difficult social situation and we have talked about it and we will vote at the end for the law, not through the pension system, but through the welfare system, but this is about a rather obvious illogicality. So there's a possibility that a person has huge money in a bank account and simply during his working life or has not obtained the right to retire and has no pension and the money could have been obtained in a variety of ways, someone acquires by selling the property, someone acquires no income at all, etc., but money that can be significant and de facto lying at the bank and that person by us should not exercise the right to such assistance. If you have a million euros or ten million kuna on the bank in a situation where you're asking the state to pay you 800 kn, I don't think it would be normal, nor would this law be intended for such persons. I'm sorry that the state doesn't control or this way won't see whether it really ends up with those who need it, I guarantee you that 20,000 people who exercise their right and who will be able to apply for this kind of support next year, probably hundreds of them will have large assets primarily talking about banks, banks and that the state won't be able to establish it. And that's why I'm asking for this amendment to be voted on because I think it would be logical and I wouldn't tell the government, the crown fell off her head if she had accepted this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206707	Thank you. The sixth amendment of MP Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206708	The amendment is not accepted. Total household income is the best indicator of the financial situation in which the elderly person is located, property or other property is not a determining factor for the achievement of this new right which aims to improve the quality of life of older people who, during the working century, have failed to provide income for age due to objective or subjective differences. On the other hand, assets placed in the exercise of rights shall be taken into account by applying income or income censorship.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206709	Representative Miranda Mrsic and we will vote on that. The seventh amendment of the Club of Representatives of HSU, the Force of Independent Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206711	The amendment is not accepted. In fact, it is two separate systems, the pension is made on the basis of the completed pension standing, paid salaries and rests on the payment of contributions while national compensation for older people is provided with a basic level of social protection for age and does not have a foothold in the payment of contributions and previous work.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206712	Honorable representative Silvano Hrelja on behalf of the club of MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206713	Dear Secretary of State, you have just confirmed the ineligibleness of this law in the work where he asks that someone must give up a pension that may amount to 500 kn because you must know, the current pension, the lowest pension of 15 years if a family pension comes behind it, it amounts to 707 kn, it is less than this national fee. You're asking for someone to give up pensions based on a payment of contributions either once or as it was, are mostly agricultural and crafts pensions the hardest but there are workers, you're asking that one of them give up, he can't do it by law. You can't give up your pension on your own request, you can't stop paying off your new job, at death, but on your own request you can't give up your pension to take a national pension for old age, so we've offered you a kind of heart bypass so that these two laws can work for you. I can see that you didn't understand it, I'm very sorry, I'm very sorry, but we have experts in HSU who have been studying these systems, and nothing happens to us by chance, and we're not doing these amendments out of the obituary, we told you that we support the Institute because they promised it to the governments 20 years ago, and it's time to risk it with that system, no matter what we gave it various epithets and pre-election outflows of love and everything we've already said, but here we are in a function to fix the law, it's the task of every parliamentary agent, and just from that point of view we're doing this.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206714	Are you asking for a vote? [[I'm sorry, I'll ask for a vote, yes.]] Thank you very much. 8th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Labour Party and Solidarity and Independent Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206716	The amendment is not accepted. The draft law establishes a new institute introducing a basic level of social security and the amount is determined in accordance with economic opportunities.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206717	There's no club representative, so we'll vote on him. Ninth Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Labour Party and Solidarity and Independent Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206718	The amendment is not accepted. Bank payments are proposed for a more technologically secure way of paying off cash and no significant costs may be disregarded which would additionally burden the state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206719	There is no representative of the club so we will vote on this, the 10th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Labour Party and Solidarity and Independent Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206720	The amendment is not accepted. The possibility of disbursement through the proxies is proposed to enable people who themselves are not able to directly use bank services, for example because of the isolation of the area, to pay out through a person of confidence chosen by them or by authority.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206721	The president says there is no representative, so we will vote on it, 11 amendments to the Club of Representatives of HSU, SNAGA and independent MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206722	The amendment is not accepted. If the exercise of a right depends on meeting certain conditions, the facts that prove it can be decisive and decisive, namely the synonyms and both statements in practice are used in accordance with the legal terminology used in the Croatian legal system.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206723	In the name of the club, the esteemed representative of the Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206724	I'm sorry but the fact that the facts are determined is a personification. So you give things a human dimension, a human face. Therefore, I have not yet seen the installation of a personification in our Croatian legislation, but since you reject all amendments in order and this is approximately certainly a tipfeller because someone should have said either the decisive facts or the necessary facts or the necessary arguments to decide, I am sorry, that is your attitude towards the amendments of the opposition, I think it is a very wrong attitude because we are not here to mock you, the mistakes possible, we are here with full awareness of that salary we receive, this job we do. Therefore, I am sorry for your incomprehension, our measures are exclusively in terms of improving and expressing and the content of the law, and I will request a vote for this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206725	Thank you. Amendment 12 to the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206726	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206727	Thank you. We ended this law, it becomes an amendment, of course, an integral part of the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206728	Final proposal of the Law on National Compensation for Elderly Persons, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 947. The Proposer is the Government. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives, MP Miranda Mrsic, the Party of Labour and Solidarity Club and Independent Representatives, MP Željko Lacković, advocate Maras, SDSS Representatives' Club, HSU's Club of Representatives, SNAGAs and Independent Representatives. The review of the amendments has been sent to you by electronic means, so before the vote we will hear from our colleague, Hrelja, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206729	Your Honor, Mr. President, I'm looking for a break in front of the HSU Club, independent MPs and the SNAG because of this law we're about to vote on. Namely, I recommend that all representatives of the Croatian Parliament support the amendments of HSU because the law is in this form inconclusive. In fact, the law requires those with a small family pension based on contributions payments to either agricultural or craft pensions to give up that pension in order to receive national compensation. No one in the Republic of Croatia can give up their pension by their will, only by new employment or death. Therefore, the law is inconclusive, so I ask you to support these two amendments, which ensure that the Institute of National Age Charges can be applied. The second president is also related to point 22 of the Law, our Law on Voluntary Health Insurance, where we are looking for an increase in censorship from 1.516 to 1.830 per member of the family, i.e. from $1.939 to 2.340, we believe that this law, which 58 representatives of the Croatian Parliament signed support for, among them and 14 in the ruling majority, representatives of minorities and many others are free to vote for the law because it is good and what the Government has declared to do in increasing the state budget satisfys and the amounts of censorship. It's about the amount of censorship of 47 and 61 kuna what the government has brought requires much, much less money. Therefore, you can freely vote for this bill of law for that money in those frameworks has quite Enough. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206730	Can we get back to work now?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206731	You got it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206732	Then we're going to vote on the amendments. The first Legislative Committee has been adopted, so it becomes an integral part of the law. The second Club of Representatives of the SDSS, not accepted, the government does not accept it, so we must vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I'm saying he didn't get the votes he needed. We're going to Amendment 3. The club of representatives of the Labour Party and solidarity and independent representatives, the government does not accept and we must vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment number four of MPs by Željko Lackovic, the government does not accept, so we must vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that the amendment has not received the required number of votes, 6 for, 75 against. The 6th Amendment of Representative Miranda Mrsic, the government does not accept, we must vote. Who's in? And I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We're going to the 5th Amendment of Representative Maras, the government doesn't accept, so we're going to vote on him. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. The 6th Amendment of Representative Miranda Mrsic, the government does not accept, we must vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. We're going to the 7th. The club of HSU, SNAG and independent representatives, the government does not accept it, so we must vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. We're going to Amendment number eight. The club of Labour Party Representatives and Solidarity and Independent Representatives, the government does not accept it, we must vote. Who's in? I see you didn't get the required number of votes so we can go to Amendment 9. Yeah, yeah, okay. Has everyone voted? So please don't all vote, so we're missing the quorum at this point in time for this decision. I ask you colleagues and colleagues to vote again in the halls here to vote who should vote, and in the halls to vote by hand. So the amendment didn't get the required number of votes, 6 was for, 73 against. We are going to Amendment No. 10 of the Labour Party Representatives' Club and Solidarity and Independent Representatives' Club, the government does not accept. Let's vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. We are going to the amendment of the club of representatives of HSU-SNAGA-independent representatives, the government is not accepting it, so we must vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. We're going to the last 12. The Legislative Committee has been adopted and becomes an integral part of the law. I am now voting on the final proposal of the National Compensation Act for the Elderly. Please, let's vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? I'd like some results. So most of the votes 115 for, 2 abstentions and 1 against was passed the National Compensation Act for the Elderly. If we are, that's the second and third item of the agenda, so let's now move on to the first point that we're going to discuss today is: - The final proposal of the National Compensation Act for the elderly, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. The proposal is proposed by the Government pursuant to Article 85 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Constitution and Articles 172 and 204. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. On the occasion of the establishment of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure unites the first and second readings, and amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Labour, the pension system and the social partnership and the Committee on Health and Social Policy. Before I give my word to the respected Labour and Pension System Minister Josip Aladrovic, there is a representative, Maras, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206734	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues and fellow MPs, Mr. Minister, I am reporting for the SDP Club's break to consult before the debate on the proposal for a National Compensation Act for the Elderly, given that it is an accelerated process, first and second reading, a signal, and the information we receive every day in the HDZ office in the media is that elections are at the door, that the Croatian Parliament's disbandment is at the door. 90% of Croatian citizens do not support the HDZ's decision to do everything to make it possible for themselves to be in a better starting position, and to endanger the health of our citizens rather than the opposite, they are pushing for elections in September what would be more logical and what was normal in some timeline. But what's problematic is that, so I don't have anything and I'd like HDZ to be in power as soon as possible, so that someone doesn't happen to think that I want HDZ to continue the mandate, I don't want them to leave the government as soon as possible, but I want to make it very clear here. No government in the Republic of Croatia has gambled like this with the election date. Until the last second, they do not want to tell their partners or Croatian citizens, but rather watch how it corresponds specifically to Plenkovic and Jandrokovic. 90% of Croatian citizens do not support this. The headquarters is exposed, you no longer have the halo around the headquarters, or about these HDZ experts, who unfortunately now work and see people working for HDZ. This statement yesterday, or yesterday's statement by Mr. Capak, that people in self-insulation could go to the polls, said everything and took the mask off of everything. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, tell the Croatian citizens when the Croatian Parliament will be disbanded.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206735	Mr. Representative, thank you, we're all agreed to take a break and proceed at 9:00, 41 minutes. It's 9:00.36. [[CONTINUATION AFTER 9:41 A.M.]] What I should have said, I will now call the respected Josip Aladrović, Minister of Labour and Pensions. Minister, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206737	The Honorable President of HS, the Honorable MPs, the Honorable Representatives. First of all, first of all, I would like to remind you of what the Croatian Government has done as regards the pension reform itself or the reform of the pension system. Therefore, the pension reform of 1 January 2019, a package of 6 pension laws, has fully regulated the pension system in order to ensure long-term sustainability and suitability of pensions. We have solved some of the biggest problems of the pension system, removed the perceived inequalities and achieved positive shifts in increasing pensions for both current and future pensioners. It should be pointed out that in order to achieve a more favourable pension and to eliminate generation inequality, insurance undertakings are required to be provided in I and II. We have made it possible to choose a more favourable pension and introduce a proportionate retirement allowance. Positive results by enabling the election to benefit from a more favourable pension and the extension of the allowance can now be seen through the pension system and what is the fact is that now over 42% of people who retire choose pensions from the combined pension column or from both pension pillars, which was ultimately the goal in those initial stages of pension reforms in the early 2000s. We have also changed the form of pension harmonisation along with all of the above, and all to encourage more appropriate amounts, i.e. to achieve the appropriateness of pensions and the adequateness of payments. We have introduced an additional 6-month period for each child born and adopted in the calculation of pensions as a demographic measure that protects motherhood within the pension system and eliminates differences in the heights of pensions between women and men. I remind you that we have expanded our ability to work using a pension that has so far exploited just over 14,000 of our citizens or pensioners. We paid personal attention to people with disabilities and expanded the circle of persons whose internship counts with increased duration, improved the Institute of Professional Rehabilitation and increased the base of the financial compensation due to physical damage. Since the start of the term of office, pensions have increased slightly more than 12% while the lowest pensions are more than 15%, and they include about 255,000 pensioners, or our citizens. These are some of the examples of a number of measures implemented under the pension system, which we have improved in line with economic opportunities through the pension system in order to ensure the long-term sustainability of pensions, the adequateness of pensions and the resolution of intergenerational inequality. We have already announced the resolution of the situation of our older citizens who do not meet the conditions for retirement and have no other income through the appropriate legislative framework. With this proposal for a law in front of you, we want to take an additional step in improving the material rights of older people or protecting our older citizens who have not been able to secure income in their work at age, and at an older age they do not have enough money or resources to settle their needs. I would like to remind you that the Social Care Strategy for the elderly in the Republic of Croatia for the period from 2017 to 2020, which the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted in September 2017, overlooked the introduction of a cash compensation to the socially endangered elderly by the end of 2020, as it is now proposed in the draft law that lies ahead of you. Namely, the Institute of National Compensation for Elderly Persons is intended for elderly people who do not make a pension on the basis of previous work and paid pension contributions or persons who do not have a minimum retirement period of 15 years for obtaining age pension rights and older than 65 years of age, have a long-term residence in the Republic of Croatia and have no other source of income. It is important to point out that the potential beneficiaries of this fee were, for the most part, unable to achieve the necessary minimum retirement time, for example because of the lack of education, life in rural areas where the labour market and similar reasons were not developed. In drawing up this bill, which introduces a new institute aimed at reducing the poverty of older people, it was necessary to analyse the number of parameters of the current system of social care, pension system, labour market conditions or labour markets as such and of course the best European practices. To this end, the Institute for Public Finance has developed an analysis of parameters from the social care system, pension system and labour market conditions in the EU countries and best European practices in relation to the project of introducing national compensation for older people. In fact, in European countries there is no unique access to this institute, differences are significant depending on which country has defined itself to be represented through a pension system, whether such an institute should be represented through a social care system, so that there is no uniform practice. But, of course, in these studies, we have received a comprehensive demonstration of best European practices. In addition, the draft law should also take into account the proportion of national pensions for elderly people with the lowest pension for a minimum of 15 years of retirement period, which has been around €1.030 since 1 January 2020, which provides for some lower level of pension insurance rights in the pension system and the guaranteeed minimum benefit from the welfare system, which is 920 kuna per month for a working incompetent male. The Working Party for determining the conditions and criteria for the introduction of a national pension in which, apart from representatives of the competent ministries or representatives of government and social partners, representatives of the academic community and representatives of pensioners, associations that care about older persons have been actively working in the past period and with their expertise and constructive proposals has made a significant contribution to the definition of the criteria for drawing up this bill, and I will take advantage of this opportunity in HS to thank them for that. The proposal for a National Compensation Act for the elderly before you is proposing the following, introducing a national fee for older people defined as monetary income for Croatian citizens over 65 years of age with residence in the Republic of Croatia for an uninterrupted duration of 20 years prior to submission of the application. Therefore, it is a new law that will be adequately protected from the general revenues of the state budget only by Croatian citizens with long-term residence in the Republic of Croatia. In addition to the general conditions, additional conditions for the exercise of rights are prescribed, namely, that the elderly person is not a pensioner and is not an insurance undertaking in compulsory pension insurance. However, in cases where a pension is made lower than the national fee, the user may choose to pay the national fee and, in that case, suspend pension payments from the compulsory pension system. Furthermore, the older person is not a beneficiary of the guaranteed minimum fee, but he may exceptionally choose a more favourable right and, if he chooses a national fee, ceases the right to a guaranteed minimum fee. It is important to note that when setting criteria, the income or income price for users and household members is taken into account, meaning that users and household members do not make revenues in the previous calendar year greater than 800 kuna per month per household member. Income is considered to be wages, pensions, income from independent activity, income from assets and capital, income from insurance and other income under tax regulations. In this respect, it should be noted that income does not include compensation for the assistance and care of another person, personal disability from the welfare system, disability of Croatian defenders and civilian war victims, compensation for physical damage and compensation for foreign assistance and care from the pension system and other charges that are not subject to taxation. It is important here to point out that we consider the total income of the household to be the best indicator of the financial situation in which the elderly is located. The ownership of real estate or other assets should not be a determining factor for the achievement of this new right aimed at improving the quality of life of older people who, during the working age, have not been able to achieve incomes that will define their incomes in the older age. Furthermore, the applicant is not the recipient of maintenance under a life support contract and is not granted the right to a social care accommodation service. Since the purpose of this fee is to meet exactly the basic existential needs and these needs are already being provided under the provision of accommodation services through the social care system, we believe that it cannot be used at the same time or that both rights cannot be applied at the same time. These two institutes are aimed at achieving an equal goal through different rights. In accordance with economic opportunities, a monthly amount of national compensation of 800 kuna is proposed and the amount is the same for one or more users in the same household. In doing so, I must stress that we have been leading and that we have had to make sure that the amount of benefits is lower than the minimum pension for 15 years of retirement as the rights arising from previous work. It is also established that national compensation for older people is harmonised each calendar year starting from 1 January 2022 on the basis of the data we will have for 2021, and according to the decision of the Governing Council of HZMO which binds to the rate of increase in the consumer price index. The procedure for the exercise of rights shall be initiated at the request of a person who fulfils the condition of years, citizenship and residence. Our commitment to the right to decide HZMO, because of the information equipment, cooperation and developed business processes in the exchange of data between the Tax Administration and the Institute and other associated institutions, as well as the successful practices so far in the implementation of the child or pension allowance procedures, can ensure that this law is implemented with available information, technical and human potentials, and thus the introduction of this right will not have an impact on increasing the administrative system. Special cooperation between the institutions and the social care centres is also prescribed in order to prevent abuse. The social care centre will, at the request of the Institute, provide information available from the official records of beneficiaries of the social care system rights determined to determine the facts necessary for the exercise of the right to national compensation for older persons. The social care centre will also provide solutions to the recognised right to this compensation, and the Social Care Centre will also inform the Institute of the recognition of the right to accommodation services. Furthermore, it provides for the verification of income data and other facts on which the right depends once a year and the abolition of the date on which the change occurred affecting the use of the national compensation itself. Discontinuation of the right is regulated by specific circumstances such as the death of the user, increased income of the household, employment, the exercise of activities on the basis of the obligation to provide insurance and check-out of residence from the Republic of Croatia, the determination of detention, prison, the conclusion of a life-restraint contract or the recognition of the right to accommodation. The funds necessary for the implementation of the proposed law were estimated at 132 million kuna for approximately 19,700 users in 2021 and at an amount of 181 million kuna for around 21,500 users in 2022. It will be financed from the general revenues of the state budget. It is important to stress that national compensation for older persons is aimed at increasing the quality of life of older people. This bill enables income in age to meet the basic needs of life as a contribution to the material well-being or safety of our citizens, of course, in accordance with economic opportunities in the Republic of Croatia. It will cover a group of elderly people who are not receiving, and that is a group of people for whom we as a society are responsible and it is our duty to take proper care of them. The introduction of a specific legislative framework, i.e. the introduction of national compensation for older people, ensures a basic level of social security for age, which will certainly contribute to reducing the stigmatisation of older people due to poverty. Finally, I would like to point out that it is proposed that this law be adopted by emergency procedure, since all previous assumptions for its timely application should be ensured as of 1 January 2021. Namely, the HZMO implementing body must provide technical preconditions for the establishment of a new business process, i.e. to establish all solutions in technological, process and, in a technological and process sense and in a domain of human potential. Thank you, everyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206738	I thank the minister. We've got 12 replicas, first mate cellic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206739	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister, although some of these will also declare this a pre-election move by this government, I will remind you that in the Social Care Strategy for the Elderly as a goal under regular number 3 is a national pension that is actually the same, national compensation for older people. Therefore, there is also a certain analogy here with changes, amendments and additions to the Voluntary Health Insurance Act where indexation or change of income censorship is determined. There is therefore a change in the average consumer price index plus a change in gross wages. On the basis of what criteria have you determined compliance for further periods of national compensation for older people?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206740	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206741	Your Honor, I thank you for asking. So, as you pointed out well in the national strategy, I mentioned it and in the opening address it was just envisaged to introduce such an institute, whether it was called a national pension or a national compensation for older people it was actually more or less anyway. Harmonisation in general in systems in such approximate institutes can be linked either to consumer price indices or to wage growth indices. In view of the fact that this is what we consider to be a more favourable indexation for future users, we have decided to index as stated in the bill itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206742	She's a second colleague of Maximchuk's.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206743	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Ministers with the secretary of state, that the HDZ government is very socially sensitive, you have shown by the recent increase in the lowest pensions by 3.13%, so the pensions in this term grew 12% and the lowest 15%. You are now introducing a national fee for older people who are a new institute where older people over 65 will be given higher levels of social and material protection. So my question is, what are the projections of your potential number of users of this fee? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206744	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206745	Thank you for asking the honourable MPs. So, as far as the facts are concerned, or the figures that you have presented, they are correct, so there is no need to refer to that, however, a good analogy is that the Croatian government has shown care for older people through previous coordinations, i.e. an increase in pensions. Care for older people is also demonstrated by the introduction of this new institute, however, it includes one segment of people who have not been covered by either the social care system or the pension system so far. In view of this, as we have already pointed out in the materials delivered in the first year, we expect slightly less than 20,000 new users, so the users of a new institute whose actually existential situation is helping or helping to address the potential problem of older people's poverty. So that's where we made it very clear that we wanted to protect older people. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206746	Comrade Mrsic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206747	Thank you very much. So this law is another law that is in line with the harsh HDZ election trade and what you are proposing today is citizen fraud. But I'd like to ask you something more important. You stole half a billion kuna people from an account that was intended to hire people with disabilities. Tell us here in front of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, in front of people with disabilities whom you gave those half a billion, and how many of those half a billion went to persons with disabilities who were on hold and who lost their jobs during this crown of crisis? We warned you not to do this, but obviously it was more likely for you to take people with disabilities instead of finding other items in the budget rebalancing that could be reduced. Shame on you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206748	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206749	Well, Agent Mrsic, here I must admit the very interesting interpretations of what has been happening, a very interesting political view, especially since you should know this system and should know that the amount of funds available to disabled people. So, if you're interpreting it as diabolical as you're interpreting it, then that's one look. If you interpret that we have preserved jobs with certain means, and on the other hand we have left about 200 million kuna at a special source concerning the very resources on which people with disabilities are provided and encouraged by employment, then it is a very different perspective. So it would be good if, with these very difficult words, you frighten the Croatian public and bring the truth to the end and say that there is another 200 million kuna to pay off all obligations neatly and that quota employment as such will earn more than the quota employment obligation will earn more in the future than there is expenditure on the same items.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206750	Thank you. A colleague of the Hill, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206751	Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. One of the 20 principles of the European Pillar of Social Rights refers to income in old age and retirement. According to this principle, retired workers and self-employed persons are entitled to a pension that corresponds to their contributions and makes adequate income, and all older people have the right to resources that provide them with a decent life. Now you just tell me, does receiving that which is three times less than the poverty limit in the Republic provide older people with a decent life, whether those who receive a pension and a payment of contributions, or those who have not worked? Just tell me that, and that's what you stated in that dignified life you quoted in the bill on page 2, so explain to me how it's possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206752	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206753	Your Honor, Mr. Hrelja. So as I initially stated, this institute is a new institute, the institute is which is consistent with the economic possibilities of the Republic of Croatia. We are aware of what the minimum pension is, or what the minimum pension is for at least 15 years of employment. Since these amounts are within 1,030 kuna at this time, we believe that this is how we actually stimulate additionally certain incomes in the older age that accumulate greater quality of life. Self-sufficiency or lack of sufficientness can be discussed, however, that is what the Republic of Croatia can at the moment and that is what the Republic of Croatia is doing at this time, or the Government of the Republic of Croatia is sending very clear signals to the elderly population that it is not neglected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206754	Comrade Lovrinović, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206755	Honored Minister Aladrovic. Two questions. You wrote in the HDZ in 2017 in the strategy that you will spend this, meaning 20,000 people that you will give 800 kuna. Why have you waited three years because people could have lived better than that, and you've been doing it two months before the election. So it's pretty clear why you just launched it. That's the first question. Second. See here according to HZMO bulletin data up to 500 kuna 92,810 citizens receive a pension of up to 500 kuna. Now you tell me, how now these people who have no conditions get 800 kuna, and those who get up to 500 are discriminated against. I suggest you, not to suggest, but to demand on their behalf, increase them by 300 kuna, that's about 60 million more and do the right thing. Don't discriminate on people.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206756	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206757	Dear Representative Lovrinović. As far as your first question is concerned, so what is mentioned in the national strategy is that implementation will be during or after the adoption of the legal framework will be in the period from 2017 to 2020, given all the preconditions that have been worked so far, given the work group's workload we have achieved in time what we promised and in 2021 will be the implementation. Since you are a professor at the Faculty of Economics in Zagreb, I am surprised by this second question of yours, because you should know that 92,000 users do not receive less than 500 kuna when we exclude those who receive a proportional part of the proportion of work experience in the Republic and the vast majority of these people, so only 12,000 people, which is that we still understand a lot, receive amounts that are less than 1,000 kuna, and that proportional part of the internships that they have achieved outside come from other European countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206758	Comrade Maras, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206759	Thank you very much. Mr. Aladrovic, my question is two questions. The first is, which is why we didn't make this measure in 2017 because HDZ's logic is there's no money when economic growth is and there's money when we're going to fall 10%. So this story of elections or pre-election promises here comes most to terms because that you're consistent then I guess when you have money you're giving that measure, not when there's no money. So you're three years behind on that. And another thing I want to ask you, since you are soon a technical minister, what have you agreed with the teachers? So my view is that teachers don't need to be reduced to wages and that they need to be respected for what's agreed on because they're doing more than they would normally do at this point, given that the government has made chaos in the education system where people go to schools and work from home, and children are ultimately suffering the most. So two things I asked you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206760	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206761	Your Honor, Representative Maras. So the other thing has nothing to do with the subject, so I'm going to take it out. As for the first question when we are talking specifically about the legislative proposal before us, I have mentioned earlier that the national strategy provides for a deadline for the adoption of the legal framework between 2017 and between 2020, that we are bringing this legal framework in 2020 and that we are expecting implementation in 2021. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206762	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, here you go, Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206763	Thank you very much. Mr. President, I'm asking you, 238 is hurt to protect the MPs and the minister you're saying that he came here to answer our questions, not to document and ignore our enquiries. As you said yourself, Croatia deserves legitimate authority, you yourself said it is not available at this time that the minister will soon be a technical minister and that I am interested in what he has agreed with the professors. So it's no big deal and I think people deserve to hear it. What he has a problem with here saying he didn't do anything, it's not my problem, but the citizens have a right to know. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206764	Please sit down, you've been warned because you've violated the Rules of Procedure, this wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but you've replicated it, and you've put it in my mouth that I said the government doesn't have any legitimacy. No, I didn't say that, and I'm asking you not to be false. Please write down the warning. My colleague Jackov, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206765	Thank you. Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. I am interested in why it was taken as a criterion or condition of 20 years of continuous residence, especially in the context, it is my duty to say that the largest number of return Serbs has actually returned to the Republic of Croatia since 2000. However, even that is not the problem, the basic problem is that at the time of their return they could not enter their own homes, the latter had various court proceedings, some were devastated houses or were restored, so that the majority of the Serb returnees would not be covered by this law. And I repeat, why was a 20-year-old criterion taken?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206766	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206767	Dear Representative Jeckov. So, as far as making this law itself is concerned, we already mentioned in the introduction that the working group that worked was extremely wide and that it also included the academic community. In the deliveries of a working group working on the law, among other things, the Institute of Public Finance analysed European practices, since such an institute generally always brings along this uninterrupted stay in this case to the Republic of Croatia, and so we decided to put ourselves in the proposal for a law to join this continuous stay of 20 years. There are different experiences, but I dare say this is one of the lower limits to what we could see. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206768	Comrade Leakovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206769	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honorary Minister, you said it doesn't matter whether this institute is called a national pension or a national pension. I think it doesn't matter whether it's called a national pension or a national pension, and we warned this morning at a board meeting. So I think this is a question of a social benefit that has nothing to do with your ministry or the HZMO should deal with a kind of social assistance, let's just say it in a so-called way. I hope there will be no problem in implementing this type of institute in its application, but we have seen that timing is indicative. This institute is actually brought several weeks before the elections, and it is indicative that you have also announced in your portfolio some changes in the criteria relating to state support when it comes to preserving jobs, so I would take the opportunity to tell us something about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206770	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206771	Your Honor, I thank you for asking. So, as far as I'm concerned, if I said it was anyway, then maybe I put myself on the spot. So what matters is what it's called, but even more important is what purpose that institute still has. So, as I said in some European practices and in comparable practices, there are different cases than being part of the pension system, to being part of the welfare system. We have decided that the name itself does not imply that it is part of the pension system, is financed from the general revenues of the budget, and thus is not linked financially to the payment of contributions. On the other hand, we have chosen HZMO as an implementing body because it is an implementing body which does not require additional administrative capacity and does not make additional costs or for reasons of economicity towards the very introduction of this institute. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206772	Thank you. Now it's up to counterpart Ante Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206773	Thank you very much, esteemed president of HS. Dear Minister. When your lunches come out of opposition like this, then you know you're on your way and this is a good bill. We proposed it then and in pre-election time and he thank God he came here on the HS agenda. So, 60,000 people who look at this one way or another this debate I'm sure they welcome the adoption of this national fee for older people. I have another question, technically. So most of these people come from rural areas and they will have to submit in a physical sense this request, however, in addition to the administration relating to the law, the Tax Administration, the HZMO, the HZZO whether there is a possibility, and I know that it is possible to do so, to do so by electronic means, that we do not have additional administration after applying for these persons. So I'd like you to say it here publicly and transparently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206774	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206775	Dear Representative Babic. Thanks for asking. So, as far as this is concerned, just one of the reasons why we chose HZMO is precisely its territorial dispersion throughout the Republic of Croatia, so 20 regional offices, 91 branches in the Republic of Croatia, makes it a significant availability for achieving this kind of right. In addition, there is a link with the Tax Administration, with all other public institutions or public services in the Republic of Croatia. If there is a need for furthering or for all other needs of upgrade, there is sufficient time and we will certainly be administering the right to this compensation to the minimum extent possible, of course and the favorite users. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206776	Comrade Lukacic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206777	Thank you very much. Dear Minister. First of all, I want to say that it is good that you have saved thousands of people with disabilities through the resources of the Institute of Arts, and as far as this law is concerned, I support, so I am glad that the Government is doing what it has promised, and please explain briefly once again what the difference between this national compensation for our older citizens and guaranteed minimum fees is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206778	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206779	Thank you for asking, Mrs. Lukacic. So as far as the national compensation for older people themselves is concerned, it foresees slightly lighter criteria, so to speak, as far as users themselves are concerned. It therefore includes a certain, certain degree of social security, i.e. for those who are consumers or future users of national compensation for older people, actually makes it easier in a way in the older age of financial resources. For the guaranteed minimum compensation itself are the competent centres for social care and therefore there is a certain level of administration that needs to be met in the system itself. So here we have decided on a relatively simple institute, but the Institute that protects those most needed in this case, and of course the user of the minimum guaranteed fee or national compensation for the elderly in that case can choose as favourably his right.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206780	Thank you. A colleague of Panenić's.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206781	Dear Minister, of course, you are relying on a strategy that should bring together actually care for all those who belong to the third age, but there is also the problem of consistency of policies being conducted because it is not just a monetary amount, sometimes what can help them is much more important. We have a constant fluctuation, we have help programmes in the house that last, and then we have one option, so we have a program, then we have one blank, so the program is coming. Wish somewhere is up to the competitions, so now we have a second phase, so there will be 800 kuna, what I think in that policy, means here I say ok 800 kuna will certainly be a considerable help to those who will achieve it, but whether a whole set of these rights will once equalise that anyone who is a pensioner who has a certain need knows what he can count on and can get it from the Croatian state, and not every time we depend on a financial amount or on a political option that may have some vision, and in the end are Retired ones who got the most hurt. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206782	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206783	I thank you for asking, Mr Panenic, if we're talking specifically about this institute, so we're talking about a new institute, we've pointed out that several times. We are talking about an institute which therefore covers a particular segment of society that has so far been without financial income, without financial income and that segment of society which is precisely for this reason that you have stated has in some way remained beyond all the legal regulations and regulations so far. That is why the simplicity of this institute, or what bestows it, is precisely simplicity, and with the aim of reducing the poverty of an older age. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206784	And colleague Peric, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206785	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear Ministers, State Secretarys, and according to the information you have provided, it is said that 59,738 people who are not pensioners or employees. What is also significant is that from these very total numbers here you note that a large part will actually be used by a person or woman in rural areas which is very good given the situation that is, and this is confirmed by the Institute of Public Finance, which speaks of 29,000 otherwise persons who could exercise the right. Therefore, it is very good that this is also applied to women in rural areas in this case.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206786	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206787	I appreciate the question, Mrs. Peric, so I'll agree with you here. So this is one of the target groups or target group that will certainly be the highest intensity in itself, in the very number of users precisely for the reasons mentioned above, so from perhaps one historical, historical circumstances that the availability of education was somewhat lower, that the development of the labour market was somewhat lower and that actually one approach to work was something different in history. For this very reason, most users will make women in rural areas, but of course it is a group that this government has to worry about, and by adopting this institute itself, it will show concern for that part of society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206788	Thank you, Minister. A colleague of the Sladorovs called for a break. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206789	Thank you, Mr. President. So I'm looking for a break on behalf of the MOST Club so we can consult on this bill. Obviously, the government, take one step forward, two steps back, so I want to take the opportunity because people are sending messages, the minister is here. So, associations, people with disabilities send messages whether the government took 500 million kuna from that fund that encourages professional rehabilitation and the rights of disabled people. So, I must say, through this time of the crown of the virus, I have met many persons with, a person with disabilities when I carried food and medicines as part of the Blue Heart action and they are also asking me to have Minister Aladrovic answer the question specifically. It's about people who have a hard time living here's exactly one friend sending me, he doesn't usually have a hand, he says every time I buy a shirt that needs to be changed to a tailor's shirt, so his life is much more expensive, people are panicking about wanting concrete answers and let the minister answer specific questions. I'll almost have a press on it, but he can answer now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206790	The apartment will be approved. Is anyone else picking up? If we don't, we'll continue at 10 o'clock and 35 minutes. It's 10:00.23. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 10:37 A.M.]] Comrade Maras, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206792	At the 57th session held on 13 May, the Committee on Labour, Pensions System and the Social Partnership of the Croatian Parliament held today, meaning that, just prior to the session, he discussed the Proposal for a National Compensation Act for the Elderly with the Final Proposal for the Law, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 947, which has been delivered to the President of the Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by an act of 7 May 2020. That act was discussed by the Committee in accordance with Article 83. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as a parent working body. In the opening statement of the proposer's representative, she pointed out that the right to national compensation for older persons can be obtained by Croatian citizens who turn 65 years of age with a residence in the Republic of Croatia for an uninterrupted period of 20 years immediately before applying for the right. The right to national compensation for older persons may be effected if the person is not a beneficiary of a pension under the rules of the Republic of Croatia or according to the regulations of another State and is not an insurance undertaking in compulsory retirement insurance, that the beneficiary and/or members of the household income are not subject to the determined amount of national benefits per household member per month, that the beneficiary is not entitled to a minimum social welfare allowance guaranteed, that there is no recognised right to an accommodation service according to social care rules and that there is no contract on life support or a life support contract as a recipient. National compensation for older people has been estimated to be around 19 700 people in 2021 and 21 550 in 2022. In the debate, the proposing representative stressed that the proposed law intends to establish its own national support as a replacement income for a specific category of older people in order to ensure a certain degree of social security. Most board members support the proposed solutions and ensure, in line with economic opportunities, income in age or social security of citizens. In the debate, the biggest challenges prompted solutions under which no condition for the savings user in commercial banks was set either in kunas or in foreign exchanges. In the opinion of the Committee members, this will open up the possibility of abuse. It is also not clear enough that children are obliged to support parents and powerless parents who do not have their own income. The national fee for older people is 800 kn per month, the amount of national compensation for older people is adjusted from 1 January of each calendar year starting on 1 January 2022. Decision on the harmonisation of national compensation for older persons shall be adopted by the Administrative Board of the Institutions. In the debate, most members supported the adoption of this bill by voting "for" 9 and 1 "abstained" and decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to pass the National Compensation Act for the elderly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206793	Is there anyone else on behalf of the board? If not, then I'm opening a debate and it's the first turn of the HDZ Representatives' Club, respected colleague Branko Juričev-Martinchev, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206794	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, my colleagues and colleagues. This Proposal for a Law on National Compensation for Elderly Persons The HDZ Club will support because this law introduces and introduces a new law into the legal system, a right that improves the quality of life of our older citizens who have not managed to secure income for age due to their different circumstances, ensure that they have no other income and live in families, in their households with insufficient income. In the Republic of Croatia, people over 65 have about 20% and are at greater risk of poverty than the average of the general population. We have heard that this proposal for a law on national compensation for older people is a condition for a person to have Croatian citizenship, that he is over 65 years of age, that he has a residence in the Republic of Croatia right before applying. It is estimated that in the Republic of Croatia there are around 60,000 people older than 65 who have failed to meet the conditions for the exercise of pension rights. Among these elderly people without pensions, most of them are women because women were significantly less than men participated in paid work outside the house, and their careers were interrupted and shorter. The potential users of this fee were most often unable to meet these minimum conditions for a pension internship, so it was mostly as I said about women, about those residents from our rural areas, those whose lack of access to education was more difficult, their education was more difficult then they had an inadequate network of public transport, so as I said, residents from villages, villages and islands. Life on the coast also comes down to basic main activity. We know that in tourism mostly all employees do everything for 3 months. So many cleaners, waitresses, porters, they only have three months. a working internship in one year, so it takes them 15 years to get a job and 60 seasons. Let us not forget that our fellow citizens who have not found themselves guilty at the Bureau of Employment at the age of 50 also find it very difficult to reach a new job and permanent employment, and these are 1/3 unemployed. They are mostly employed in part-time or in the Treaty of Work, and these are also the reasons why they decided to propose such a law so that all of our fellow citizens who have also worked or wanted to work and at least have the right to secure a pension from the minimum age of 15. Worktime, they weren't able. This bill would allow for an additional step towards improving the material situation for about 20,000 of our older citizens, older than 65. When making this law, too, it was necessary to take care of how much minimum social care compensation was guaranteed, and how much is the lowest pension. We know that since January 1st of this year, the lowest retirement is 15 years old. Retirement rate determined at a value of just over EUR 1,000,00. And that amount benefits about 260 of our fellow citizens. According to the Social Care Act guaranteed a minimum fee of about 800 or not, but an exact 800,00 kn for the settlement of basic living needs, it also benefits about 8000 of our fellow citizens over 65, while the amount for a working incompetent male is 920,00 kn. For this reason, it decided that this exact amount of compensation would be worth €800,00, with it being adjusted each year to the rate of increase in the consumer price index. It is also important to note that the setting of criteria takes into account both income and income censorship, but this income does not include compensation for the assistance and care of other persons, personal disability from the welfare system, disability of Croatian defenders and civilians victims of war, compensation for physical damage and compensation for foreign assistance and care from the pension system and other benefits that are not subject to taxation. National compensation for the elderly can also not be subject to enforcement or insurance. The ownership of real estate or other property will also not be an obstacle to receiving this fee, such as in the case of a minimum fee guaranteed. In fact, we know that many of our older citizens have other than a house in which they may have some sort of tavern, an asshole, a boat, or a car, and all of these were reasons that could not have been righted under the Social Care Act, or received so-called. Social compensation. Unlike this fee that will be possible, it will be paid to all of our fellow citizens who possess such a thing. And I would point out once again that this government has really done a lot, that it has raised 12%, which is twice what the three previous governments have done and much more than what has been promised to raise only 5% in the pre-election period. The lowest pension was also increased by 15% by about 255,000 pensioners. A circle of pensioners who are allowed to work part-time at the same time receiving a pension has also been extended. Pension reform has also been carried out to ensure the long-term sustainability of the pension system because ageing population needs to be provided to a greater extent every year, and we also need to keep in mind what we will leave to our children and that our children who will work tomorrow have the right to retire. When we talk about women, it should be said that this government has also enabled the project "Wish" to help both older and powerless, while at the same time hiring a vulnerable group of women. For the first time in the term of office of this Government, an additional 6-month period was also introduced for each child born and adopted in the calculation of the pension i.e. an increase of about 2% for each child, acknowledging that women were also raising children and often and therefore had fewer salaries and less employment. This law intends to establish a system of its own national support as a replacement income for the category of older persons, as also foreseen by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by adopting the strategy itself. This law, as I said, introduces a new right, the right to a national fee is just another one in a series of laws that helps our oldest citizens, mostly women who have also contributed in their own way to our community, whether they have worked more in the house or in the field, than in the labour market, and all of these are the reasons why the HDZ Club will support this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206795	We are going to the 2nd debate, the Club of Representatives of the HSS and Democrats, dear colleague Miranda Mrsic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206796	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. This is a law that goes into, as part of what we're doing these days, a very rough trade with voters where people are trying to show that here's the HDZ doing something, so I'm going to quote some parts of the document that HDZ presented to the citizens in the 2016 elections. "We will establish a national pension for people who are incapable of self-innovating and working," HDZ pledged in the 2016 pre-election programme. It's an election, HDZ wants to sell colourful lies to old citizens. They promised 2016. establish a national pension for people who are unable to self-inflict and work. It has been four years since this law entered into force in 1.1.2021, so it is very clear that you wanted to show that something was being done. But in this document, economic growth, new jobs and social justice, HDZ has pledged to have the right to all persons over 65 who do not have other sources of income and to be 40% of the minimum wage in the year in which the person is entitled to a national pension. Gentlemen, Minister, you didn't look back at this at all, and then we told you in the elections that it wasn't so real, that you weren't doing it because if you had fulfilled your 2016 election promise, then the national fee or national pension would be 1,300 kuna. So the minimum gross salary for this year is 4,062 kuna, net is 3,250, 40% is 1,300 kuna. In that case, someone with one year of employment or 14 years of employment would receive 1,300 kuna when they met all the conditions for the exercise of the right. Then we warned you that this concept was wrong for you because according to the Pension Insurance Act today someone who is 15 years old has the right to retire and 1,026,75, so this is what the HDZ promises and does not execute. And now there's the election, so let's do something, so let's make it look like a national pension. In this programme right up to the promise of a national pension, there is also a promise to build new homes for older and powerless ones, I will quote: "We will build new homes for older and powerless ones, we will build 20 homes for older and powerless ones and get new 2000 accommodation units in the state and private sector". There's been this many homes built, not one built, and this is one black lie. We know the pathology of lying to HDZ, especially before the elections. Today, you are facing this National Pensions Bill and Minister Aladrovic said in one step, so it is not natural for someone to pay dividends and bonuses and receive support for jobs. It is not natural for Minister Aladrovic to defend this law because this law is from a welfare system, not a pension insurance system. And here you should have seen Minister Bedekovic because what is now done with this law is a clean lie to the citizens and you are trying to get into the best of the election situation. When the law enters into force from 1 January 2021, the national fee will be 800 kuna, so as much as the minimum fee is guaranteed. The coordination decision will be made by the HZMO administrative board but related to the fee, guaranteed minimum fee. It is clear that this promise of 1,300 kuna 40% of the minimum wage will not be realised and that is another lie that HDZ is now seeking to plant on us. Instead of national pensions or national benefits, it should have been settled through the welfare system, because this law is deeply contradictory because on the one hand you have a guaranteed minimum fee and you have the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders where for any fee you must have a lot of paper, and you must have a very significant part, and that means you do not have a real estate. In this law, the Ministry did not want to purposely or not, put on an asset censorship, and in this sense I gave the amendment proposal, I hope the ministry will consider and will consider the majority because without property censorship you can have someone who has more houses, who has more apartments, who can make money on the sea with apartments and someone who can have savings and receive 800 kuna national pensions. Without that property censorship, this law falls into the water, and that's what everyone has warned you, from the defense unions and everything else. Because what message are you sending? You're sending a message that whoever's under 65 and wants to get a guaranteed minimum fee has to sell everything, and whoever's over 65 can keep it nice and get 800 kuna again. On the other hand, according to the Family Law, the responsibility of children to care for parents is prescribed, and that is something that is normal and that is fine. You in this law have nothing to do to make sure the one to whom you give the national fee has children who can support them. You don't have one thing in the law that goes for it. And what is said very mildly in the law, and you boast that this will increase the social inclusion of women, the law will ultimately lead to less and less women being on the labour market because, according to the experiences of other countries, if the age limit is set at the age limit for retirement, it will have a negative effect on the motivation to pay for contributions and on the participation of women on the labour market. If you in 65. is waiting for a pension or compensation whether you were paying contributions or not, you are not motivated to look for a job and it will affect the labour market negatively. This is a good idea, nobody says no against the idea, I'm talking against the way it's done, and it's done in a hurry. The law that should regulate it was made in a way that would be a cartoon itself, a cartoon of itself. And that's what the message of this law is. Why is the national fee good? It is good and it should be in our legislation, should not be in the pension system, it must be in the welfare system. And now trying to explain why this should be in the national system, so the pension system when HZMO will administer that compensation that is from the welfare system, will draw all social care papers instead of having social care that has all the data and solve all these requirements. What I see here now, I see another additional entanglement of HDZ personnel in HZMO because lately more than 300 new people have been employed by HZMO, with the HDZ card. And when HDZ boasts of a 12% pension increase, it is an increase related to the Swiss formula, pensions would grow with both HDZ and HDZ without legal obligation. But also HDZ doesn't boast about the rise in pensions in this quarter, it's 0.7%, because it's such a Swiss formula and it's a message from the HDZ, it lies on all sides, especially because elections are going. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206797	Thank you, too. Now it's time, sir, actually, to Club of Representatives of the Living Wall, and let's change Croatia. First Mr. Lovrinović, then Mrs. Lovrinović. Sabolek, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206798	Thank you. Dear citizens, I warmly welcome you in front of the Party Let's change Croatia. You see, we're discussing the so-called. National compensation for older people, so it's not even social aid, it's not retirement, it's some hybrid that's here, but it's said by predecessors, designed for parliamentary elections for the HDZ coalition. Why? Because they want to stay until Judgment Day in power, you see, until Judgment Day. And how? Well, you gentlemen have come up with your 2017 strategy. In which you wrote that for 800,00 kn you will help people who have no other income, I can't live and what you've been waiting for 3.G.? Now, two months before the election, you pulled the paper and you say let's split up 800,00 kn. How many citizens? 20,000 citizens. So you found one niche of the constituency that you now want as colorful balloons or candy attract. And I'm asking you again why those 20,000 people didn't think of it 3 years ago, you should have paid off immediately. How much does that cost? You calculated, 160 million kuna. So, you'd be up for these last three years. They paid 480 million kuna, and you did not pay for it because the average pension in the Republic of Croatia is around £2.500,00, that's the poverty zone, the poverty zone. My people, you can't live on it. So you couldn't pay them off, you couldn't pay them off, you didn't want to, for 160 million years, and you put bankers and background managers in full pockets. Why? Every year, I gave you four years. Here you spoke, each year you could save about 4 billion kunas that you refinanced all the kuna loans for the state, meaning for the state's debt needs. You didn't mean to. So 12 billion kunas, you put in bankers, background managers, and 480 million kunas, you couldn't get these people with no money. That's the policy you send and you say don't worry, we've provided crumbs for you, we've secured the crumbs. Now listen to this. When a Croatian state was established, so I have data for the 1990s, then the average pension relative to the average salary in the Republic of Croatia was 75%, read statistics. What is the average pension today compared to the average salary? Only 39%. The pensioners are Croatia's biggest victims since the establishment of the Croatian state. They were offered on the altar. The oligarchy is theirs, you pensioners, you are offered on the altar of the Croatian state and you paid the highest price, they give you crumbs. Unfortunately, many of you will still vote for those who intend to continue to give you crumbs and represent it as the achievement of Croatian dream. So I ask that a large number of people, your statistics are worth nothing, you've taught me a lesson here, you've done the right statistics how many people get up to 500, 800,00 kn, 1000, large, tens of thousands of people do it, don't take it with you, announce it right, no, not just for your own purposes. That there's 1,000 of them, and that's tens of thousands. If I said that the average pension is £2.500,00, that's the poverty zone, that's it. Therefore, this is not the Republic of Croatia that we have fought for, for which so many lives have been laid, this is the Republic of Croatia, which they, who are super-respected citizens and soldiers, are their Republic of Croatia, this is their dream. It is their dream that you always have to pull them by the sleeve to increase you by 50,00 kn each year and clap and that we should be happy. In that sense I call you dear citizens proud people, and even in poverty, there come elections, let's read these people a lesson, let's throw them off the stage, these are people who are trembling, I see them in the halls because they don't know if they'll be here again, they're shaking like rails because most of them can't do anything else, you know, but they can manipulate here and they can deal with political intrigues. Therefore, this is a destabilized pension system, this is a mixed social security with the pension system but they don't care because once the law is passed, it will only be paid after this term is over. Therefore, I invite you to stand up, let us not satisfy the crumbs, we belong to the wealth of Croatia that it has but they took it for themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206799	Thank you, too. - Mrs. Crescent. Sabolek, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206800	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, colleagues, respected citizens. I have to tell you that HDZ lied again, namely, before the elections they were still promising a national pension, now they're introducing a much lower national fee, right? They were then literally screaming promises to establish a national pension for people who were unable to self-inflict and work. They promised to have a national pension, that they would have the right of a person over 65 years of age who had no other sources of income from Croatian citizens who had been resident in Croatia for at least 15 years. The amount of national pension should then be determined according to the promise according to the amount of minimum wage, i.e. at least 40% of the minimum salary in the year in which a person is entitled to a national pension. So HDZ lied again and failed to keep the promise. In the consultation process that has been opened since the beginning of April, the national pension has also turned into a national compensation for older people, from the minimum wage promised 40%, which gives only 800 kn to our citizens at risk of poverty and older citizens, cannot cover average monthly directories with average bills for heating and payment of the reserve. How are these people going to survive? What's he gonna feed on? 80,000 lives depend on the decisions of this government. We got a call from a retired gentleman, crying on the phone, not knowing how he and his wife would survive. He's afraid of what a husband will live on if he dies first. And if the first wife who has several hundred kunas dies, the gentleman says that the only solution is to buy him the 800 kn gun and one bullet. Here's what your policy brings, good for you. A few hundred kunas decide on our citizens, the oldest citizens will survive, and I am really talking about mere survival, survival, hunger and cold in the middle of winter because of the heating savings. We from the Living Wall know how people live, people are out of the field, so we gave the procedure in May 2018 two laws, a proposal for a national age compensation bill that would amount to 1031.94 kn per month per user or 30% of the gross minimum wage in the Republic of Croatia. More than 86,000 elderly people living in the Republic of Croatia who are not beneficiaries of pension rights and do not have any own income. A total of at least 36% of the population of the Republic of Croatia, aged 65 years, does not receive an age pension. We also put in the Proposal for a Law amending the Pension Insurance Act. In Croatia, more than 315 000 pensioners receive pensions below 1500 kuna. It is estimated that more than half of the total number of pensioners, in particular 52.2% is below the poverty line. The law determines the lowest pensions with that it cannot be below 1500 kuna. Thank you, gentlemen of the HDZ, for being so loud, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206801	Thank you very much. I have to say, Mrs. Devereaux. Sabolek's right. Let's move on, counsel club, she's right to say you're loud, the other things I'm not going in right now because I can't. The club of representatives of the Labour Party and solidarity and independent representatives is the first Mrs. A pervert, then, Mr. Varda.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206802	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. For those who have nothing to live on, it is completely irrelevant who will pass the law, it is important for them to get some money from which they will be able to live as well as they can. This law in the form of a national pension or a national foundation, I think, somewhere since 2000, has been in many programmes of political parties, it was even in the programmes of some governments and I am glad to see that today with all its shortcomings it has nevertheless come before parliamentary representatives primarily because of people who have nothing to live on, 800 kn is little, out of 800 kn won't be overdressed or overdressed, but when you have nothing, then 800 kn is still something. Unfortunately, in Croatia, it is very difficult to raise social benefits and pensions because our salaries are low and we always have to make sure that there is no compensation or this fee national for those who could not earn a pension, so we are now providing some existence or those who work, so no compensation should be demotive for work. And it's always hard there, so as soon as you raise it, you go into the space that it's actually better to be either social or something else, and not get up every morning at 7 o'clock and work somewhere, and that's why we have extremely low fees that actually really people can't live on and this, you can't even say that it's going to ease poverty, but here, as long as it doesn't start to develop the economy more seriously, until there's a little more serious salary growth, it can hardly affect a little pensions and benefits. I would also like to point out on behalf of the Labour and Solidarity Party, i.e. the club and the independent representatives, several of the amendments that we have made. We think that you should take care of people who have had a life support contract, if they break it up, these people are some kind of air-free space, they don't have the money to support themselves, so you try to somehow protect them during this period and install them with this help. On the other hand, this power of attorney may be a little problematic, you know that older people are often victims of fraud, power of attorney, question to whom you're going to give, maybe they can run out of it. If the power of attorney by the public notary is confirmed, then it requires some new funding that they do not have, so we would ask that, here, think about it a little bit, and if we are to be consequent, so this is about people who are older and who are working incompetent, maybe putting them on those 920 kunas, that is our proposal, and you will decide whether you have money for it or whether you can arrange such a thing. And I would also like to say that, on behalf of the Labour and Solidarity Party, we have filed two laws, or two laws, in the procedure, one Ombudsman to the elderly, we think that someone should really take care of their rights and protection seriously, and this crown has also shown that the elderly are the most unprotected and most vulnerable. And the second is the law, I think it's called mandatory relationships, mostly regulates this Life Support Act where people are really often victims of certain frauds. Under the old days, and without a roof on their heads, only without any worries, so we have to protect them a little, so here's the thing, we put these two laws in the parliamentary procedure. I'm afraid it'll run out of debate in this House, but in any case, here's our political decision to sort of fight for those who actually care about the state's most important. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206803	Thank you, too. Mr. Varda, you have time to land and use your five minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206804	Thank you, well-respected vice president of HS, respected ministers, secretary of state, colleagues and colleagues. She's teaching on the presentation of her colleague Opačić. Compared to the amendments we've made, and tell the minister that we should take care of the elderly, finally to hear it in the House. In any case, at the beginning of the day, we will, as counterpart Opačić said, support the law, give four amendments in the sense that we will try to improve this law precisely because of the dignity of older people and the integrity of their integrity in relation to the possible frauds that have taken place, especially in those provisions of the laws relating to the life or life support contract and to the granting of power to third parties to receive that fee. counterpart Babic warned Ante that excessive administration should be avoided. Our amendments are just going in that sense. If the Law on Mandatory Relations allows every natural person to give his right to power of attorney, then that should not be particularly emphasized in this law. We are otherwise against it, as we are against those older people being paid this fee exclusively through the bank. It's mostly about older people in rural areas. The truth God, the government, Milanovic's government has abolished that provision so that the compensation can be paid through mail. We ask that the amendment that can be paid through mail and mail is because it is about older people who neither have a car nor have a bank in their rural areas and cannot simply get their own funds. That's not a problem, that's really not a problem if we want to preserve these people's dignity. As for the life support that you say for a reason, if there is a life support, there's no right to this fee, which is fine, we're just warning that it's life support. We're because a colleague, a colleague of Opačić, said they put this law in the process, the lapus of the Hrelja, the lapus. That's exactly why we're trying to prevent fraud. Not just from the mob, but from the relatives of the elderly. We've had examples in both the media and the practice of simply enrolling in life support immediately, selling the apartment, and the old person is no longer there, he's on the street. We've just suggested that, uh, the DOJ bring in one rulebook or bring in a rulebook, which will sort out the content of the life support contract. Because then he's just certified by the public notary, the thing over, this one immediately registers on ownership, and he owns it from that moment on, has all the property as the owner, and we have no obligation whatsoever to do what he is as a maintenance provider. It depends on his will. If we want to preserve the dignity of the elderly. On the other hand, that's why we gave the amendment to supplement the article, just a little bit to see where we put it, yeah, you say if there's a life or life support agreement. It can also be broken by will, he must launch a court dispute, which in case the dispute was initiated for the termination of the contract, and as we continue the disputes long he remains without income, without abstention. And that should be regulated in a way, we have, in that sense, given the amendment to introduce this new point 6 that says in case the dispute is conducted, it has the right to this compensation because otherwise it runs out of anything. I would ask that, I would ask you, dear ministers, with due care to consider our amendments, they go in favour of improving the text and content of the law, but in any case depending on the fate of the amendments, the club of the Labour and Solidarity Party and the independent representatives, regardless of all the criticisms I have heard so far, regardless of the context in which we adopt this law, aware of the situation in the state budget and that context that we bring, the club will support the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206805	Thank you, too. Mr Branko Hrg will now speak before the HDS-HSLS-HDSSB's Club of Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206806	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. The HDS-HSLSS-HDSSB club at first I will say will support this law, if for no other reason, and what it does for the most part of people older than life, especially women from rural areas. So women who worked on earth their whole lives and kept the household, were not employed, and unfortunately they did not get rid of pension obligations. We know what kind of system it was until the 1990s that basically none of the peasants in principle or were very, very rare who paid any contributions at all, most people each then invested in survival, survival, in children in the extreme case they were not isolated, unable to pray out, and simply if later children did not allow them to pay those allowances, they remained normal without any possibility of getting any pension. And the introduction of a national retirement pension is welcome anyway. It's a shame it's not long ago, it's long gone. What worries me a little is that in this time of year 2020, then '21. and '22. We have a trend of growth, and we should be realistically falling if we would see that this system is quite different since the '90s and something else has to happen. It is normal for us to ensure that national pensions are provided to people who have a continuous stay and life in Croatia because in case that is not so, we know that in principle some possible immigration is beginning in the extreme case in Croatia of elderly people who could use it, that some European countries have problems with social benefits that give where the good part of people goes there because they have good social benefits, they apply there and they can live solidly from it. What is questionable to me is giving money without any kind of obligation because we have to be in a situation that, as in that social part, those social monthly benefits that get older or people with disabilities or infirmity, we often have winding-up and manipulations, often happen that a variety of malversions have been made in order for a person to exercise that right, and realistically when it seems difficult to achieve it. I'm kind of always a fan of having to be a scale. So if someone doesn't have any pensions, no compensation, no children who inherit the property or won't inherit the property, then the state should put a note on that property, so today, tomorrow, when someone inherits it, get the money back to the state or give it up, it'll be inherited by local self-government. The same thing is with those social categories with those social censorships because we have a situation here, we don't have an asset censorship, we only have income, and we don't have property. And we have a situation sure that people also have valuable assets, and they probably don't have this income part, and they're basically going to get right, and maybe they live along with their own to say so to my children, their relatives, and they can't say bread hungry. You should think about it in the future, some time ahead, and when it's going to be that we don't get to use the system again, as I repeat, it's quite present in social censorship. There are all kinds of situations here and it's formally legal, it's all clean and fine, but realistically, when it looks like we often have deviations. With these few observations for thinking, for tracking in the future, like I said at the beginning, our club will support the bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206807	Thank you very much. Mr. Goran Beus Richembergh will speak in front of the GLAS Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206808	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. The strength of the sustainability of one community is certainly reflected in the consistency, sustainability, transparency and justice of its social system. Unfortunately, the Republic of Croatia has not had such a thing since its very beginning. So, 30. a system of social care on one hand, and then social support to all those who are depressed in different ways and for various reasons has never been stabilised, has never been standardised, has never been built from beginning to end with meaning, logic and logical purpose. It is constantly being built up, torn down, yellowed down, as my Dalmatians would say, and taken from one end to put it on the other end, and he does not speak of our society as social society as such. If we do not go into detail now, this is also seen in caring for people with disabilities where actually the origin of disability creates discrimination on persons with disabilities, and so to the day of today, and it has been said for 20 years, a social injustice has also been created when it comes to older people. This country is a device, simple and wrong start when it comes to taking care of older people, first of all, of that famous retirement system robbery from the '90s. when it was simply the Constitutional Court's decision to repay debts to the pensioners. It's not that it's taken, it's that it's been said not to be taken, that all maneuvers are legal. It was only the Constitutional Court's decision to return the matter to the starting point and say that you have wrongly taken those whom you should not have touched the acquired rights. And that system is perpetuated. He's neither just nor logical, nor systematic. Now this story, and therefore the proposal for this law, should not be looked at and it would be bad to look beyond the context of this government's overall social policy. So, it primarily judges politically, assesses what is useful, which is useless, not for society, not for socially depressed groups, but above all, politically probative to HDZ. In today's opening letter, the minister said a whole series of claims that if we looked beyond this context we wouldn't have anything to add or subtract. But when we contextulate it, then a whole series of problems are born. 2017 A strategy has been adopted which explicitly states that a minimum national pension will be introduced. Now, retirement, compensation, help, you'd say it doesn't matter. Yes, it's very important because it's a statusally different set of things. 2017 We decided to go to that institute. My colleague Opačić said there was an idea about it before, let's just say in her time it wasn't realized, and then it didn't go into it in 2018, 2019 in years that were fiscally stable but are now going in an emergency procedure. So it is obvious that it is being manipulated, that it is trying for pre-election purposes to time the matter so that it is presented to the public immediately before the parliamentary elections. It's not God-knows-how many votes, but what you'd say, HDZ rejoices. 20,000 who will be able to do so in 2021, a solid pool, just enough to send them a message not to stay home but to come to the elections because if HDZ remains in power, then they will guarantee that they will receive the 800,00 kn. So that's how you buy votes. From who? Of the people who are completely socially marginalized, who generally do not have education, they do not have any employment, who live in the country, who are mostly housewives who have spent their entire lives as farmers without permanent and permanent income, who may well live in one-member households. Of course it's easy for them to send a message and tell Grandma to come to the election and she'll give you the HDZ 800,00 kn and that's the taste of this proposal. If he hadn't given himself in two readings, then we would have opened this story in January if what the minister said was what he promised it would be in 2020, not until 2020, so it could have been before. We'd have more time, we'd upgrade the system to new suggestions, we'd make things right, and this way, in an emergency procedure, take it or leave it. For example, to a man over 65, every month is important, natural. Every day. Here it's said to be, let's say, the right will be achieved on the basis of last calendar year's data, let's say, an income census. He's in the 11th month. He's 65 years old, submits a request, but he's been taken for the past calendar year. Why haven't they been for the past 12 months? Because in that past calendar year, anything could have happened. Someone could've lost their job in that household, someone could've died. Large and dramatic changes could occur in the income censorship, but it will have to wait all that time because one calendar year has been said and not the last 12 months. I repeat, to people over 65 who live below the poverty line who, as such, are already endangering them and their lives, every day, every week, every month is important. I say, to observe this outside the context of the overall social policy that the ministry has proposed in this government, along with the Ministry of Social Welfare, so they carry that overall policy, would not be good. Today it is mentioned and it should be underlined, parallel to this happening a very strong deprivation of people with disabilities. The parents of children with special needs are desperate, freaked out because there are no help assistants in this COVID crisis, no school, no special schools. 300 plus 150 or 150 plus 300 million from a fund filled by employers who do not meet mandatory quotas for the employment of disabled persons has simply been taken and redistributed for other purposes. Not for the needs of people with disabilities, so that money is intended to improve the employment conditions of people with disabilities. It has not changed the purpose of these funds in a way to say we will now help children with disabilities these money or other categories of people with disabilities but have gone to a completely different story and this is support for entrepreneurs and people who are at risk of the COVID crisis on the labour market. At this point, the state budget is shorter than 25.5 billion kuna on the revenue side, and yesterday we heard it when we presented the rebalancing but of course, the expenditure side wasn't touched. What does that mean? That we will go into debt, but it should be temporarily taken wherever redistribution can be made to meet the HDZ's political goals just before the elections in July and there is no doubt and there is no scruples. This is done if you should both at the expense of persons with disabilities and in this context you should observe this law and we will refrain from supporting it because we think that the whole model is wrong, to go at the wrong time and actually buy the pre-election favor of 20 thousand people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206809	- Mrs. Crescent. Dragana Jeckov will speak on behalf of the SDSS Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206810	I would like to thank the Vice-President, Mr. Secretary. The idea of a national pension is mentioned among Croatian politicians for more than 15 years, and as we have the opportunity to hear, it will come to life in 2021. The proposed law intends to establish a system of its own national support as a substitute income for a specific category of older persons to ensure that they have a certain degree of social security. It is a measure aimed at increasing the quality of the life of older people. The authors of this proposal believe that this will help to reduce the stigmatisation of older people as one of the main reasons for not using social care compensation. In the significant work of the poor population, the cause of poverty is a structural nature such as war, political and economic transition, the controversial process of privatisation, the economic crisis and others. To remind us that Croatia is next to Spain, it is on top of the scale when it comes to the number of older than 65 years who do not receive a pension. The non-covery according to EUROSTAT data is at a high 36% high, which means that 64% is receiving a pension. In her report, the Ombudsman pointed out that many Croatian citizens face poverty that makes it impossible for them to achieve many rights, groups with the greatest risk of poverty and social inclusion are just older people and among them are children, young, unemployed and of course members of the Roma and Serbian ethnic groups. As for a few sentences only about these general conditions for the exercise of the right to national compensation, what is certainly positive and what deserves to be pointed out is that most of the elderly without retirement are women, in fact what is not good, but in this law is good and for the reason that women significantly less participated in paid work outside the house and also their working careers were shorter and interrupted. It is mostly rural women without formal training and they would of course not have anything to survive from, however, there is, of course, that it is usually 22, so if, in a household where a husband receives a pension insignificantly over 1,600 kuna, let's say, 1,620 kuna, a woman without income census will not be able to achieve the right to a national fee even though she is alone without any income, depending on her husband's incomes, which are miserable and both are practically living in poverty. A national pension is needed as an unsustainable barrier to older people's poverty, and in a age group older than 65 years, they have reached the EU's infamous fifth worst place. When it comes to the risk of poverty and social exclusion of as much as 32.9%, women are even a percentage of 36. Croatia, when it comes to the poverty line, is 2,496,05 kuna per single person, and the lowest pension for 15 years of employment is 1,019 kuna while social assistance is 920 kuna. This looks like too many numbers, but it hides the maths of old age poverty. What causes doubt in this bill is, which is why not taking property censorship along with income. The former speakers spoke of it and showed it on practical examples. We simply wonder why it is so that everyone is obliged to place their property in the function of personal restraint. Such a solution has also been accessed in other laws determining state benefits. This would avoid the situation for property owners and real estate of higher values in and outside the Republic of Croatia to receive a national fee which is essentially one social giving. The second question that should certainly be highlighted is to ensure justice in obtaining the right to this kind of social giving and their targeting towards persons in the real need, I believe that it is necessary to prescribe as I said and the condition of the property censorship applicable to the right of guaranteed minimum social care compensation. In principle, a number of grants and support from the state budget are subject to the conditions of income, income and property censorship for a simple reason to ensure transparency and justice. Certainly, in order to prevent possible abuses, they will definitely require the verification of income and property of children who are children of potential users. The provisions of this law stipulate that the right to a national compensation shall cease and payment shall be suspended by the determination of detention, investigative prison or by the maintenance of the sentence for more than a month, on the day of the occurrence of the circumstances. The proposed text indicates that the fact that a particular detention or investigative prison is sufficient to give a solution to the abolition of the right to national compensation for older people is unacceptable because for people who are not legally convicted, however, the presummation of innocence is worth it. Two very important problems that I want to say something about, which is of course about the national community I belong to, which is according to official data in Croatia, around 13,000 Serbs have returned to total, which is the largest number of those older age. A significant number of returnees were recorded in the late 1990s, and most returned in 2001, a total of 15,000. After that period, the number of returnees began to decline. We warn of the problem of the return population and of the general condition of 20 years of continued residence immediately prior to the adoption of the requirement to be met. I point out that Serb returnees have been returning most since 2000, however, could not enter into ownership of their property because it was moved or not returned to the owner or where the house was completely devastated and the owner was awaiting reconstruction. I've also talked about this problem in my replica, and I'm taking the opportunity to say that we're going to put an amendment on this subject. And the other problem I should point out is to financially damaged pensioners in the period from '91 to '98, so it's a group that was wrongly taken away from their assets and they remained deprived of their rights and their number is far less than the number of those covered by this law. Of course, we have a lot of understanding for the poverty that is covered by the older population and this social component is certainly very important, but we support every measure aimed at poverty, and I think that the state could still find a way to help these pensioners, too, in the period from '91 to '98, find a way to help them too. You know what group I'm talking about, and I'm going to remind you that there was a working group who worked for three years, and in the end, that work was interrupted. They thought there was nothing to talk about. There is something to talk about, and I will use 55 seconds to say that the payment of the pensions due has not been suspended by their guilt, that it contributes to compulsory health and pension insurance that they have been paying into the Croatian pension fund, rather than to the paraphond as they are being respected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206811	Thank you, too. Now Mr Silvano Hrelja will speak in front of the Club of Representatives of HSU-SNAGA-independent representatives and New Politics. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206812	Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives, Mr. Minister, representatives, State Secretary. So first I want to say the character of this law, which is him. I will later say that this was the goal and previous governments, but it has never been realised, but given the moment and the content we have before us this law is a generous pre-election outflow of the enormous love of HDZ to the poorest citizens over 65. for a little money and a little delay. Nothing tomorrow. Solutions will only be issued next year, requirements will not be granted until next year. This is a brief vision of concern for the elderly over 65. who have not worked, who have insufficient, insufficient income to live with dignity, which is, in fact, set in the light of this law and as a goal, but this goal cannot be at the level of 1/3 of the poverty line in the Republic of Croatia, which is 2,485.00 kn, and this is at the level of 800,00 kn. This law has caused major recommendations amongst the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and everyone from their point of view has a full right. One group of citizens said again it is given to those who did not pay their contributions to the burden, on the burden of all of us, or on pension insurance, and then demonstrate a very justified dissatisfaction with pension policy and disorder in the pension, pension system. Very, very justified because the pension system is a Valda shock absorber who can swallow everything. They have the right to claim that this is not the case and that the pedestal values should be those pensions that, for which contributions have been paid for years and decades. There's another group of citizens saying okay, everybody needs help, but why is my pension 15 years old? So small? Why is it at 1.030,00 kn level more than double, two and a half times smaller than the poverty line? How is it that the social state protects me, and in 15 years, it's not my fault that my employer was bad, that he didn't pay his contributions neatly, is that why I was convicted or convicted of poverty? Mostly, I have to admit it's about women. Third group of citizens very revolutionized, very loud. I understand them completely, I support them, you release the national age benefits. What about us who, along with our husbands, made payments together in 80 years? contributes even when one dies, when one dies, we have the right to 70% of the pension of the deceased or our pension or to choose a more favourable right. Indeed, they are right because the most valuable pensions in the pension system of the Republic of Croatia are family pensions. The most paid is for what is paid on this basis. So, the first priority is for HSU and in the function of fighting poverty, but also on the basis of payments of contributions over the years, not on the basis of social rights are family pensions and our law is here in the procedure. Of course he won't come for this term because it's a hot potato that the government doesn't even want to touch. And the fourth group is the ones who say that everyone, and they're right, they all need to be protected, let's let the stories of this, what, the social state has to work, we can't call them humanitarians, these are people who really think that the social state should help everyone below the border, below the poverty line. And then we're talking specifically about this law that I told the basic characteristics at the beginning. The law was to come to the assembly no later than 2018, it was to be discussed, it was to be done seriously, it was to be discussed in 2 readings, it was to accept all remarks. What it says there is that in the fourth quarter of the government's plan this year, and now we can interpret it as being before that deadline, it will actually be applied on January 1, January, or when the first solutions are solved next year. A broad public debate, the respect of all arguments, there will be no such thing, most amendments will refuse and be very good and correct in relation to this law. It was necessary to introduce this institute which we too would support, so we do not object to this institute because it may have been needed 15 years ago. whether or, or 20 introduce in, the legal system of the Republic of Croatia with transparent real criteria, but based on good footage of poverty spread among older people. You don't have any figures in this law here, you can't figure out how many users will be, how much it will cost, how many new costs, how much will you get back on the basis of a pension suspension if there are any. So you can't because you're mentioning some numbers of 180 or 132 million kunas, if I were to all 59 000 users, then you need 600 million kunas. So here we play with 100 to 600 million kunas with ranges. That means we haven't recorded the situation. I'm asking you based on this and this waiting until the last moment, given this, pre-election outflow of enormous love,... Why does the Croatian government, HDZ not love its poor citizens of older age? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Or she only likes them for a voice. They only ask for a voice, the rest doesn't matter. And let me also say that in 2016, people who were later ministers, in pre-election promises in front of HDZ, said they would introduce a national pension, not a national fee, as it now says here, amounting to 1300 kuna. The characteristics of this law are the vagueness and great intertwination of income and income censorship without clear distinctions. I'm not going to talk about it because I'm always called why they should talk about it, that income isn't important. I think you're right and I won't talk about it anymore. I have to say, there's an illogicality of choosing a more favourable right here. So someone can give up social benefits, guaranteed benefits, cash benefits, to take this pension. It's highly unlikely because the guaranteed cash compensation offers him some more social welfare rights, there isn't any here, there's just a pension here. I'm asking you, you're offering on the other side because you know there are, that old family pensions are less than new, less than after 1999 and those family pensions less than 800 kuna. Tell me on the basis of which law, under which law the user may give up his pension. You have to explain this to me on the basis of which law the user may, by his statement, give up his pension. He can quit if he gets a job. The peace stops paying if someone dies. For the implementation of this law, you must amend the Pension Insurance Act. Well, let me finish. Regardless of the shortcomings, regardless of the huge holes in this bill, since I've been in the previous coalitions that should have introduced this, we're going to introduce the institute and we're going to fix it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206813	It is now in front of the Club of Representatives of the CNS Mr. Stjepan Curaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206814	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President, the Honorable Minister, the Honorable Secretary of State, the esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Very short. As far as the matter itself is concerned, we have heard, therefore, that is the proposal of the National Compensation Act for older people who are estimated at around 60 thousand, slightly below and where certain conditions are prescribed, among which basic terms as the Minister has said, Croatian... minimum age 65 years and 20 years... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] residences. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And then we have income censorship, so that there's actually no cumulation, that I don't list everyone else, if you're a user and those social benefits, on other grounds, pensions, etc., my colleague Hrelja mentioned something about life support, so on and so forth. As far as property censorship is concerned, we can't by law, in general I'm only talking about this law now or any other go apriors saying that our citizens are thieves. In translation, someone has real estate, which on black rent, has no income, so they exercise this right. If he's renting something, he has to record it in the IRS because he makes a tax offense punishable by law. So we can't in this way speak in positive regulations, or limit someone's property or whether they live in it, whether they're conditional on life or not, we need to see what's reported as income as such. But if someone's doing something, they'll punish them severely. As for the general pension system, we've talked about it many times, we've brought some shifts to me, and I can thank you once again for the accepted proposals that we've now put on, which have become more or less standard. What is common to most MPs or, in fact, most of them, I can say to half of those who are constructively discussing, half of those who have one position perhaps that I had at the beginning of my policy, when I said, these are the bad guys, these are the bad guys, I don't like these, and whatever they say, I don't believe and it's no good. Life teaches you that it's not really like that, that every medal has two sides. That then the ones that you thought were right that they were actually your pandan, the opposite, you're disappointed, that you see that neither is it, and then it actually leads to that social apathy where we are, that no one else trusts in politics anymore. They've all betrayed, they're all the same, etc., etc. As the People's Proverbs put it, this man was not born who pleased everyone. A minimum wage, an example. 2500, 2700, 2800, 3000, 3250, every time they come in with a proposal, there goes the counterproposal, not 3, come on 3, 5, not 3, 5, come on 4. It's not 800, why not 1,000. The fee, why 3250 for March, why isn't 5. Itd., some bidding, generally more or less, who will take more care of a certain group of people, who will prove to be a better protector, better their spokesman, etc., etc. And everything that comes, the proposal, on one side or the other, is wrong. And it's not just criticism of the opposition, it's criticism in front of the promoter. There were few ministers who accepted certain proposals and amendments. And some of them were willing to accept it. I voted for some of them. Multiple times, amendment. But generally, it all comes down to the same thing. As far as the number of 60,000 people is concerned, I would point out that some of the data that we should be taking care of is years of being paid into the pension system or year of internship. Unfortunately, we people who are over or on average 30. The internship they have somewhere between 2000,00-2,500,00 kn pension. That's it. Because we have to separate. I agree here, this was planned... The government's activities for this year, probably now because of this whole crisis, have, of course, been accelerated and brought to bear, to honor it, to promise it, I respect it, it's their right and it's better to have and better to bring than to, I don't know what we're pretending to be, to pretend to be English. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, the problem arises when people who have worked for many years and have little pensions. And we put it all on, and now we're doing it again, which is not exactly my choice either, we're putting everything under the same umbrella, everything in the pension system because we nationalized it. We nationalized HZMO when we got away from socialist rule. We didn't liberalize it, we nationalized it, everything that was in HZMO that social so-called. Before, all their portfolios, their assets, everything became state-owned, all of their deposits by sight, everything became part of the general state budget, and that's why we pay off all our pensions from the budget today. We nationalized him and he loses his own sense of insurance in his own sense. And now here we're doing this again, this fee, and we're not putting our pension into the pension system. I don't think I should, but in my opinion, I've said it many times before, there shouldn't even be defense pensions in there if they're not pensions. They are the same fees, allowances, rewards, help, anything other than retirement is the minimum guaranteed defence pension equal to the person who had 100 or more days or 105 days of wartime and 5.g. The internship and her, and the one who had 105 days of wartime and 25 years of age. working day. It's the same, because when this one counts according to the general regulations of the 25th. He falls off less and takes that defense attorney and that code throws everything in the wind. Well, that's not good, I've said it many times. But I don't see any colleagues who are too smart now that they did something when they had the chance. Why didn't that happen before? And no one will touch, no one will interfere. And it's easy to talk while you're in opposition, but when you get here, we'll leave it on the side of the carpet. But then I'll be smart when I have no responsibility. Well, that kind of policy and that kind of discussion brings us here where we are. These guys are never good at this, these guys are never good at this, and nothing, we're not going forward... I speak in general. [[You can't hear a bogey from a bench.]] Otherwise, a colleague of the Hrelja's, as far as the execution is concerned, I'm going to monopolize these pay phones a little bit now, on money, no one has, no one's been paid by that bank contract, everyone's got full pensions.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206815	Don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206816	Yes, yes, fine, I accept, I accept, I accept, I accept criticism, I accept the chair of criticism.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206817	Let's move on, let's move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206818	My friend Hrelja has an announcement to throw away, and then you can take it further.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206819	Let's go, let's move on. And you there on the side of the silence.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206820	Well, thank you. Thank you. So, please, let's make sure, and that part if we're going to work on PS, even though we don't work a lot of times. So in conclusion, I, of course this club of the HNS will accept. I think that talking from 800,00 kn fee is on one side to one who has nothing much, generally about today's cost of life not enough and it's always an awkward border and it's always a question of how much and on what grounds it needs to see in fact what are all the common grounds for which the state cares about its powerlesss who have no assets, no other incomes, and in what way that, that notion of the social state we meet. Is that a defacto we are and it is one of the gains of modern society and civilization. And with that, and respecting all these recommendations, and we can always say why it's not before. Some of those 60,000 of these will, that will mean extremely. Less or more implementing in my opinion does not come across some, some implementing problems, so practically the only one, is that it is now in the pension system and is not in the social system, but I say this is not the only thing that I would like to do once and for all to distinguish what rights are from pension, pension contributions or pension insurance, and what are fees and various, different, different other givings which you, giving to you, given certain conditions, and that's not just here, it has more of these things that we could have changed a long time ago. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206821	Mr. Gordan Maras will now speak before the SDP's Club of Representatives, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206822	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, don't be a warda hichhotate, 4 years ago. You've betrayed voters, now I can't wait to see how they'll reward you. I can't wait. Thank you very much, colleagues and colleagues, fellow MPs, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary. At first I will say that the SDP will support this law, but we must say because it is clear to all of you in the Republic of Croatia what is the intensity and intention of this law. HDZ could and should have proposed this law three years ago. So 2017, '18, '19, '20. 20,000 people would be protected and have certain incomes, and in this way they could say that they really care about the citizens of the weaker property or those who do not have any income and that they want to help them in this way. At this moment, on the eve of this term, or on new information that HDZ is pushing into the media, the Parliament will be dismissed from Monday, just so you know. On the other hand, HDZ wants to try to make a promise in six months that some citizens will receive 8 hundred kuna. And the sole purpose of this bill is the campaign, i.e. elections and pre-election campaign. Because how else do you explain that you didn't give when you had a growth of 3%, and now it proposes as a foll, Mr. Aladrović and Plenkovic care about our older citizens, and here, when we're going to have a 10% drop, they've singled out 800 kunas. Come on, please, nobody believes it, neither does it, it doesn't believe it nor children who are unfortunately at home today and watching, it's 98% of the school on TV and it would be good if the government of the Republic was able to organize an education system so that children can acquire knowledge and educate. To show that they can bring us back to normal times than they only think about campaigns, elections and how to provide Plenkovic with another mandate. Everyone figured it out, everybody understands it. 90% of citizens understand that and said in a poll what they think about what Prime Minister Plenkovic is doing and what the ruling majority is doing. And I want to know how the MPs who hold Leuter Plenkovic will be appointed all these four years, including Varda, who betrayed the voters first, at the first possible moment when he could because he was elected on my list with a few hundred votes and eventually fled to HDZ, or a pardon, even worse, fled Bandic. And on the other hand, I'm curious about how all those other MPs in HS who should think in a way that HDZ can't own the state, can't put our fellow citizens' health ahead of it. He can't run a campaign through these laws in the last, literally in the last days of the campaign because HDZ is not a state. HDZ is a poor leader of the state, HDZ is a poor leader of the Republic of Croatia and you will see for the next few months how much all these moves will cost our citizens. Otherwise, since they have failed to provide an education system, i.e. that we do not have schools in Croatia today and we do not have the opportunity for our children to attend classes, I suggest that Mr. Aladrović not touch the salaries of teachers or teachers, since they work twice as hard as they should otherwise when the situation is normal, and because of the incompetence of Minister Divjak and Prime Minister Plenkovic, they must work both at schools and at home with children, send them and control what they have learned in the arrangement of their moms, dads, grandparents. This is Croatia today and the only thing Plenkovic is thinking about is how to renew the mandate and I really call on all citizens to make this a referendum on whether Plenkovic or Croatia is more important. These elections should be a referendum on whether Plenkovic and Bandic or Croatia are more important. And her citizens. Because these laws show Plenkovic only thinks of himself. And when you see that this government has set itself up like that, I would say, unworthy of leaving Croatian citizens in suspense until the last second when the parliament is disbanded, today is the information that it will be on Monday, in order to avoid the date 19.7. and what if the president calls the elections on Saturday? Why would it be Sunday? There may be elections on Saturday. And yet the President of the Republic calls, my colleague, Boric. Maybe if the president had stayed, maybe it would have been as safe as Plenkovic's. And this might be Saturday. So with that, we had Monday's election, January 3rd. Maybe we should put on Monday to give bad karma to HDZ because he had a debacle in 2000 on January 3rd. Thus, irresponsible politicians would be appointed, I am sure the president of the state will not think in that way, as Prime Minister Plenkovic thinks, because this disbandment on Monday, Plenkovic is doing well by himself. And the president of the Republic will watch what is the interest of the citizens of the Republic and will thus call the elections so that citizens can consume their electoral rights as much as possible and choose a government and authority that will have legitimacy and will not calculate in such a poor and miserable way. Here, that's what I wanted to say here. Unfortunately, it all fits into this law where one good intensity is used in the opposite direction entirely. These people, these 20,000 people were supposed to be getting that fee for three years. Because how to explain, we will have less budget revenues in 2021 than we had in 2017 and how to explain that now suddenly here, there is money, and in 2017 when we had bigger budget revenues there was no money. Well, that's the only logic of Plenkovic. He's the only one who can figure it out. But unfortunately for him, it is understood by the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and the magic that has bewitched him for the past month, two days where he thought he would win the election quickly through the Staff. The headquarters fell apart. So look at that, that shame these people experience every day that Bozinović silenced them yesterday and not to tell them at press conferences at 2:00. The spell broke down, in a month's time, believe me, it'll be even smaller, and in two months, it'll be gone. So this, this wish that the Prime Minister, Plenkovic, wanted to make, will not happen to him, will not follow his hand to quickly, thinking only of himself, expose Croatian citizens to health risks without him staying in his chair. That won't work because 90% of Croatian citizens recognize it and in the survey, they say what they think about its intensity to go to the polls when it suits him and HDZ. These chips do whatever they want, they cheated on their voters already, one four years ago as Varda and HNS 2.5, 3 years ago, they can't remember exactly now, 2017, almost 3 years ago since they cheated on their voters and when they did it to make HDZ and Plenkovic stay in the position they unfortunately are in today and do their job badly. What I can promise, that this intensity and this legal solution will remain in place and when Plenkovic's government changes, no matter what the pre-election promise of HDZ, because I think these people deserve to be helped, I agree with my colleague Curaj that it is not to be put into retirement because it is not a pension, it is social aid or social assistance to the most vulnerable citizens and it has nothing to do with pension, it is unlikely that this is proposed by the Ministry of Labour and Pensions system at all because it really has nothing to do with it. Finally, I must say once again, that these people who will receive 800 kn, I am glad for 20,000 of them, but I am not happy because of more than 20,000 Zagreb and Zagreb who will be left without the safety and non-compliance of the Law on the Reconstruction of Zagreb because Plenkovic is in a hurry to vote. So tomorrow the law is likely to be in the government, it means nothing, it must be adopted in the Parliament and the Croatian Parliament must stand behind it, it is another rotten attempt to explain Bandic and Plenkovic in front of Zagreb and Zagreb. The Zagreb women and Zagrebans do not believe them, see how bad they have done Zagreb and believe me, it will pass in parliamentary elections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206823	We move to individual debates, Mr. Sasa Djujic is first, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206824	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I will also say at the beginning of my debate that, like my club, I will support this bill, I think this is a good solution for the people to whom it applies, but I want to point out here what I think is important to a few facts. So, like my predecessors, I think that this is a pre-election law, that you've had in these three years to bring in that you really wanted it and sometimes in my thoughts I come to the conclusion that it doesn't matter sometimes the motive of a law when it's passed because even if it's pre-election, if it helps people, it's good to bring but the shortcomings of such methods of making are then a whole series of disadvantages or wrong, half solutions. Here I would also like to say that this law is by no means a place in the labour and pension system, this is a purely social measure which is social assistance by all characteristics and by all features, and this was seen from the opening statement of the minister this morning. So this is called a national fee, logically it would be ministers, when you, as Minister of Labour and Pension System, suggest this solution, or this fee, that it's called a national pension, as some media people call it. But this is social benefits or social aid for a number of reasons. So the first is that it has certain criteria for people to exercise that right. The second is that they are related to the property criterion, let's say property censorship, a whole series of property censorship parameters affect whether or not someone is exercising the right to this fee. This fee is subject to review, so if someone had achieved it in this year, the audit will be done every year for those 800 kn and the man can easily lose it, and when it comes to pension, then it's a lasting right and for me, it would be fairer, if we said that, we introduce a national pension and who has acquired the right to a national pension, he'll get it right, and then he'll have it all his life, it would be a national pension and not now, let's say, if a single parent lives with his child, and then he gets a minimum wage on this 800 kn fee, and in the meantime, over a few years, a child who lives with him and they're part of the same household because he can't buy an apartment because we live in such conditions, and in such a country he gets a minimum salary of 3200 kn, then a man will lose that fee by the criteria you have in this law, he'll lose it's not ok. So, you should have suggested a national pension that if people got that right, they'd have it to death. And it wouldn't be subject to any revisions, censorships, etc., that would be a national pension, and this is one pre-election trick where you're going to say that our most affected people who are the lowest property because this government has given them the right to some pension that isn't. The only somewhat overwhelming reason I heard this morning from the minister why it's in your portfolio that would be exceeded at first glance is when you said that retirement arrangements would calculate it and determine the conditions and like them there'd be a lot of support for the citizens. Look, by the same key you could do this, this could be proposed by Minister Capelli in the resort of tourism, so let's say because this has to do with your portfolio as much as with tourism, and then you could say look, in every municipality we have a tourist community, so it'll be easier for citizens to come to tourist communities, so they'll manage it administratively because they have to pull data out of the social care system. So, Minister, this has something to do with you and the resort of tourism, who and the resort don't know the defenses, etc. So let's not paint. Say it openly, look, this is one solution that's not bad, but it's half-way, and that's why we're telling you. I would praise you ministers, if you had said we were going to introduce a national pension and 800 kn will have no criteria, because when we talk about the support in the economy that you gave to preserve jobs and your government, there were no criteria, there were no criteria, there who would pay the dividend and who would have the profits, everyone got this right support for jobs and that's okay for me. So also here, who is 65 years old doesn't have the conditions for retirement, gets 800 kuna national pensions, has the right and we don't question that decision anymore, we're neither valid nor calculating. It would then be a move from which you would see a concern for the citizens. Unfortunately, from what I've managed to sum up in these five minutes, even though it would take me another five of these for me here is the only goal of fighting for votes and this pre-election time of your party and for that I'm sorry. But I'll still support it because this half solution is better than none. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206825	Mr. Ante Babic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206826	And excuse me, we have one replica, Mr. Cell.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206827	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Djujic, it is clear that you have been in the party for a long time, that you have passed a party school as an experienced president of the former SDP forum. I'm not saying that as something negative, but as something positive, so you kept asking questions. On behalf of the SDP Club, a colleague of Maras is about to place him at the bookshop the day of the assembly, you proceeded in that spirit, and then you ask whether it's the Ministry of Social Affairs or the Ministry of Labour's intelligence and you focus on the form, not the content itself. In this spirit you continued to be a pre-election law, but it is a whole morning mantra that repeats itself, so you could do so as a pre-election law and in the mandate from 2011 to 2015, so there is an idea of intergenerational solidarity, you could discuss the name that this will be called, whose resolution is this, but what is important therefore that one of the most vulnerable groups will receive 800 kuna per month.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206828	Mr. Djujic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206829	I've been in a party for more than 20 years, since I was 18 years old I've been motivated by HDZ, let's say what's '90. Done, shutting down 101st, taking away the River Championship, totalitarianism conducted by your party in the '90s, I didn't want to look at it on the side, I joined the party to fight it. And I'm fighting it today. And maybe that's why I understand things more easily than your president who entered HDZ 41 years ago, I've been in a party twice as much as Plenkovic is in HDZ. So, that's why I understand these things better than him because that's why he proposes this crazy solution, and we, say me and my colleague Maras, who you've been apostrophe who's in a party as long as I have, we understand it, and I know it's incomprehensible to you because you now have to listen to your party boss, and then you can't even think about it differently because it's a party function, but this is why you're thinking about who you are now and you don't see, but the time will come and you'll realize that we're a colleague of Maras and I and some, colleague of the Voice, who we've been in a party longer than Plenkovic might still be right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206830	Can we move on? Can we? I'm going to get some coffee, so you guys can discuss it for five minutes, and then we'll come back, I don't know. Mr. Babic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206831	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, so I will be brief about this draft law in an emergency procedure, 5 minutes is not enough but I believe that all of us here in the Croatian Parliament come from different environments in the Republic and we know how many of the most needed in our midst, in fact those who do not have any income, and because of this proposal with 20 years of residence in the Republic and at 65 and over can achieve this national compensation of 800 kuna, which will mean a great deal to them. He says, "Some colleagues say, "and here I am going to look right back at my colleague, Maras, on behalf of the SDP Club, "that this law is mostly about pre-election purposes." And that's true, it shouldn't be kept secret, but it's not now, it's not this moment, not today, not this week. Every party, we are a country of parliamentary democracy going with the programme in front of its voters and in that programme it seems to me on page 90 we have finely said how and how we are going to introduce this national fee and what we are actually going to do about it and as far as I know it is foreseen for 4 quarters this year, and it has already happened in 2 quarters. So there's nothing to hide, everything is public and transparent what we promised and we do. So, as for the very proposal of this law, there were certain obstacles, Mr. Hrelja spoke about certain things and groups of citizens, in fact about individuals who appeared in a public debate under this law who had problems with certain things related to this law, which was mainly due to income, income or property censorship. Working in certain institutions we were two or three years ago and while she was here, there is now not a former Minister of Demography Ms Milanka Opačić she knows very well that we were conducting negotiations with the World Bank and that this property censorship was at the time and it was very much talked about. The fact is that in our society anything we receive in such a way would not, in fact, come up with resistance. Now, the law we're passing today has certain colleagues saying that it can be misused. Of course he can, like any other law. This law is proposed in good faith to help those most needy, those who have no income, and also in the fight against poverty. So, whether or not someone is going to abuse this law or to get those 800 kunas, we can actually control it through institutions that can implement it. Not only the Ministry of Demography but also the institution that will implement this HZMO has certain tools that can act to prevent abuse of this law or to minimise them. On the other hand, we all in our midst actually know who people are and who should be getting that help. Today, in my replica, I said that we do not need any additional administration related to these people because they are mostly on the islands in rural areas and should not, except in the physical sense of the law itself, ask these people to bring further assurances that would be necessary to meet such conditions. The minister made it clear that there is a mechanism and that it will not be required further from these people. On the other hand, I repeat, two things that have been said here again today, which is guaranteed a minimum fee and this new national fee institute. Through a guaranteed minimum fee, therefore, it can receive any citizen of the Republic of Croatia who meets the conditions, can receive a single male, can receive a foreigner, can receive a citizen under subsidiary protection. And exactly how and how one can receive a guaranteed minimum fee is prescribed. This is something else, this institute is mainly related to those people who have no income, i.e. those who are over 65 years old and who have a minimum of 20 years of residence in the Republic of Croatia. I am convinced that all those who see, follow, and for those, a group of people for whom this law is passed, welcome this law. It was about why we didn't bring it in '17, '18, long before, why we're bringing it now. So simply, through the National Reform Programme, through the Convergence Programme, we actually said and we had certain timings when and how we're going to pass certain laws. And in that sense we do not in any way deviate from what we have said. It's a good thing you did. In the meantime, there was a crown that stopped certain things, this one didn't and I believe it would. This law goes to the approval of all of us, and as far as I know, the SDP Club has supported it. [[Intruder: Mr. Babic's time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206832	You have two replicas. The first is Mr. Maria Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206833	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear fellow, yes, this bill really helps to combat poverty in our society and is aimed at those most needed and has recognised the opposition today on several occasions. Content they have nothing to object to this bill, then they look back at what hurts them. They were ruling, they had the opportunity to propose what they wanted to do before the elections, and they didn't. So, the term of office takes four years, as it is important for the first day of office, so is the last and last, and throughout the term of office this government has passed laws in favour of all of our citizens, we have shown this through the amendments to the Law on Oversight, where we have also wanted to help our most vulnerable citizens, and also through the many laws that we have changed and raised fees, and also in this term of this Government, pension has grown. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206834	Thank you, too. Answer, Mr. Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206835	Dear colleagues. Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleague Jelkovac. They are not naive, especially in the SDP, they know very well how and how the government works, so the moment you win the election, you are already in the campaign for the next election and everything you promised to the citizens, you should execute because they are actually citizens, you should decide in the elections, by preferences, or by the programme that you have or have not fulfilled. I deliberately did not want to talk in my individual debate about certain things that had happened long before, not long ago, when the SDP, the Kukuriku coalition was in power, when certain things were done, let's say, specifically at the ministry, today demographics, families, youth and social policies, when, with a minimum fee guaranteed, they introduced certain vouchers that were for the most socially vulnerable, i.e. in the fight against poverty. And that's true, so these vouchers themselves were one element in the fight against poverty, but some have abused it, as some will likely abuse this national compensation institute. That's why we have to fight it so it doesn't happen.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206836	Excuse me, time. - Mrs. Crescent. Dragana Jeckov. Replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206837	Thank you. Dear counterpart Ante Babic, I will stop the pre-election replicas for a moment and return them to the essence of this law, which you said was brought in good faith. Of course, that is exactly how it should be, however, abuse will be. We are here to frame the good law to make it as small as possible, to have as few opportunities as possible of this abuse as possible. Tell me how it will prevent someone who has a holiday home in Hungary, an apartment in Zagreb, from being a beneficiary of this national fee?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206838	Answer, Mr. Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206839	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Jeckov, I listened to your debate during the morning. You have very well explained certain things and certain remarks that you have made on the proposal of this law, but here, you have touched Zagreb and I can now talk about Split, Rijeka, some more attractive environments. But here, for example, from the east of Croatia, you come, say, from Slavonia, for example, you have a person 65 years old or older than those on some property, in Negoslavci, Đakov or Osijek, a property worth, but there is no income. So he of these houses, of this estate, of these walls can't live. It's obvious she has property and she's worth something, but she can't live on it. So neither now nor in the future, so there's no way he can have any income. I think these people deserve, and besides, it's a concern, we're a social society, socially sensitive and solidarity society, and I think they have the right to do that. And I think you'll support it. [[Thank you very much. Time.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206840	It's time, really. Let's move on. Mr. Ivan Celic has his own debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206841	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Respected secretary of state. We have before us a proposal for a National Compensation Act for the Elderly. The Constitution recognises or preferably decides to protect older people as vulnerabilities, so the Constitution states that the state is making them weaker, powerless, and others, because of unemployment or incompetence to work, providing carefree persons with the right to help, to settle basic living needs. Elderly persons are also listed in the 2016-2020 government programme, where it is stressed that they will be approached by changes in the pension system, provide appropriate institutional and outside institutional care for older citizens to ensure them a decent life after the end of the working life. Over the past 3 decades, the UN, in particular the European Commission and the EU, have systematically pointed to the problem of accelerated ageing and the consequences resulting from this, and have focused their actions on sensitising Member States to build policies tailored to the needs and care of older people. In its Europe 2020 strategic documents, the EU invested in social Europe towards social investment for growth and cohesion, including the implementation of the European Social Fund for the 6-year period by 2020, including the objectives, guidelines and priorities of action to reduce the negative consequences of population ageing. The rights for older people in the social care system are laid down by the Social Care Act, and they may be the cash benefits of which the most famous already repeatedly mentioned guaranteed minimum compensation, and the right to social services, which includes accommodation and home assistance services. It is estimated that in the Republic of Croatia about 60,000 people are older than 65 years. which do not meet the minimum conditions for the exercise of the right to pension. The practice of EU Member States is different, here it has been problematicd, so one part of the Member States, that part of the right to give, so for older people, it pays out of the social care system, in others within the pension system, so I think it's quite secondary to whether it's going to be called a state national benefit for older people or for national or social pensions. I note that in the social care strategy for older people, it is a goal in order. No. 3. the introduction of a national pension for socially endangered elderly people, therefore there was a change in the name, but the operator remained the same, which is the Ministry of Labour and the pension system. Older people represent a socially sensitive category of population that needs to be provided with additional conditions to enjoy their rights and have a quality life in their old age. Although older people are equal in their rights and freedoms with every other citizen, they are in an unequal position in relation to others when it comes to the enjoyment of their rights. So here we have the actual two variables. One person is older and another variable is low socioeconomic status. If we take, then these two variables, then we can definitely talk about one of the most vulnerabilities, the most endangered groups of the population and the states, there must be special care. Here I will mention, therefore, the amendments and additions to the Voluntary Health Insurance Act, where in one period when pensions grew slightly higher, it happened that there were tens of thousands of elderly people who belonged to that group, left without the right to volunteer health insurance, and there we had a situation, so these persons will pay more rarely additional health insurance and will thus diversify diagnostic treatment procedures, which will then increase the improvement of that older group of members of our society. So today’s modern society is focused on work and profit in many areas, the social climate prevails in which the goal is to be young, beautiful, capable, employed, and thus remain. However, this proposal for a Law on National Compensation for Older Persons in my opinion represents a significant contribution to climate change towards the perception of older people as a resource in financial and moral terms and as important stakeholders in social life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206842	Thank you. You've got replicas, so you'll be able to continue. The first line has Mr. Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206843	Comrade Cellic, here's a content replica so that it wouldn't be just politicizing. So, you said yourself that it doesn't matter to you what this fee is called, whether it's called compensation, national compensation, national pension, etc., that it matters that it's aid for, for this group of people. Well, I said in my personal discussion that it doesn't matter to me, I'd rather this be called a national pension and that these people, when they get it and they get it, then they have it permanently, and that there's no revision of censorship, income, etc., to be just two criteria, age and one who hasn't earned the right to retire. That would then belong to this resort and that would be a good and lasting solution for these citizens. So this is exactly what you said, help and social security, and that's what we're suggesting, and that's why this isn't the place in this vault, but it should have been in the welfare portfolio and it should have been called social assistance as it is. And I would be the first to commend you on HDZ if you had introduced a national pension that people would have permanently until death and there would be no revisions every year.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206844	Time, time. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206845	Well, dear colleague Giujic, I don't think I'd agree with you. It would be much better for me if this one, so today what we're talking about, compensation, national compensation for older people, let's say at poverty level, let's say that it's 2,485.00 kn, but it's 800,00 kn and it's still 800,00 kn better than 0,00 kn. Now, if we're talking, so the welfare portfolio, it has all its pluses and minuses. Thus, you further Stigmatize these elderly people and thus further emphasize their social status or low socio-economic status. And I will mention, therefore, as far as the Ministry of Labour and the pension system is concerned, there is a very important concept and everything that is covered by intergenerational solidarity. Therefore, in the context of this intergenerational solidarity should also be seen as a national compensation for older people.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206846	Thank you. Mr. Mouse, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206847	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow Cellic, for which elderly people are certainly one good thing. It's not enough money, of course, but for a country like us, we have to say it's certainly worth it. In organized societies, such things have been done long ago, and I think this is a government move that needs to be welcomed. Of course, 800 kuna people can't survive, but let's imagine when they had nothing. And this is one, I mean a good decision, and about raising the standard of citizens will probably be raised and their fees. I welcome this and I think this government has made and is working on a good path and that our citizens are protected from being without swearing at home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206848	Answer, Mr. Cell.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206849	Well, dear fellow Misic, here I agree with you, because indeed people of older age who have almost no income or have very small incomes are worth attention not only to social services but also to inter-resorial cooperation. So I'm going to bring up another vulnerabilities here, so they're addicts. You at that point, they are often on the sidelines of society and as soon as you have a problem if he comes within the public health system at that time the state automatically provides him with free health insurance so that he is not on the street and that he can provide health care to that very vulnerable population as best as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206850	Mr. Ante Babic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206851	Thank you very much. When you spoke about the Community Charter.../incomprehensible/... the social rights of workers of the European Council in 1989, then I will just point out that we as a state have also adopted a social care strategy for older people in 2017 until 2020. It is impossible and it is not correct to compare it with other countries. Somewhere there's really talk about national, state, social pension, fees, every country has regulated it in a different way. And you'll admit to comparing one Sweden that hasn't even had a war in the last 100 years and the Republic of Croatia in '91. until '98. In the years until peaceful reintegration, there were several tens of thousands of refugees and a very bad and social and economic situation that resulted in certain things that the state also noticed and then reacted through different institutes. Today we're dealing with it through this national compensation institute whether someone likes it or not.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206852	Answer, Mr. Cell.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206853	So, dear counterpart Babić, I agree with you, and we definitely cannot compare with some EU member states that are further north and west, I believe that by adopting this proposal for a National Compensation Act for Older Persons, Croatia will be able to call itself a more social state. As a healthcare professional, I know more about this health aspect and this public health aspect of providing healthcare to people of older age, and I can say that with our experts dealing with gerontology here, we can mate with modern European countries, I will only mention a quarterly prevention which is designed to provide people of older age with as much quality health care as possible to reduce the risk of hospital infections and to develop this extra-institutional health care.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206854	Mr. Ivan Shuker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206855	Thank you very much. As a health care professional, you probably know that most of these potential users of national fees and are already practically recorded, I think it is Article 82 or 84. The Health Insurance Act, therefore, is persons who do not have health insurance but under that law have received health insurance and are paid out of the state budget. The other thing I think is that here you should look differently at the potential recipients of this fee, the ones in the rural area and the ones in the urban environment because the reasons why they found themselves in this situation are very different, and if you look at how much there is.../incomprehensible/... from '45. any insurance with the basis of agriculture in HZMO by amending the law and when the Law on Tax on Catastrian Income has been abolished, that number of insurance workers has been reduced and that is one of the reasons why today, unfortunately, in the rural part, we will have a lot of users who will apply for this fee.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206856	Thank you. Answer Mr. Ivan Celic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206857	A respected colleague of Shuker's age doesn't deserve attention in this high house just before the elections the opposition says so. So, there are a lot of problems, I hope that also by adopting this National Compensation Act for the elderly, this hyperadministration which, in order to consume these rights, will be reduced to the least possible measure. So 800 kuna is definitely not much, but it will again allow certain people to pay the directors and some of the other things they need and I believe that as the standard grows in the Republic of Croatia, this fee will be increasing and higher every day as provided for in this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206858	And finally, Mr. Tomislav Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206859	Dear fellow Cellic, the national compensation for older people is something that should certainly be supported and any reasonable person will support such a thing at this time. Both the Government of the Republic of Croatia and all of us together show this dose of social sensitivity and that is a commendable move. In this part, I would warn of only one fact that I personally face in my town, and I believe throughout Croatia. Therefore, it does not apply to this ministry's portfolio and is not directly related to this law, but in that part of social care, we have a situation where some older people have great values in property, houses, housing, land and that these values after their death are shared among relatives who have not shown any social sensitivity to the member and their family. So this part about this law is something that is certainly commendable, which should certainly be supported, but ultimately you will have to consider this part of ownership, the property that such people have, or those that will get something from the state budget of those funds. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206860	Mr. Cell, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206861	Dear counterpart Klaric was already talking about it, so that certain people have real estate but they can neither hire it nor materialise it in any way at least to achieve some basic existential conditions. What's the problem, then, is also, and this will likely be in the next changes, or in the new Law on Social Welfare Activity, that's the problem of lifelong and life-long restraint where these people can be found on the road and certainly what needs to be thought about is that the register of persons who have signed a life-and-life restraint contract can be seen that one person cannot be, with 10 persons, sign that contract and thus the state can provide a safeguard mechanism for manipulations and abuses to be as little as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206862	Thank you. The next speaker is Mr. Branko Bacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206863	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Ministers, respected state secretaries, respected colleagues and colleagues, for the first time in sovereign Croatia, the Croatian Parliament, on a proposal from the Government, passed a law introducing a legal and financial instrument allowing citizens of the Republic of Croatia, our fellow citizens over 65 years of age, with very broad conditions, a monthly national fee of 800 kuna. During the morning we heard a number of remarks whether this should be indicated as a national fee, whether it should be as a social compensation, whether this should be run by HZMO or social care centres, whether it should be prescribed some other censors, conditions, bureaucratic, administrative difficulties for people to come up with such a fee, I would answer such remarks as that book proverb, the book, which says that the written book has 1,000 remarks and criticism, and it is not written, there is only one, and that is that it is not written. So that's the case here, if this is pre-election, it's not pre-election, if this is some sort of, if this is the fee someone else was supposed to be carrying out, not the Croatian Institute, if there's anything else to prescribe, it's in my view sub-region. It is important for Croatian citizens of older age and for such compensation to be made possible, to help make life easier for them. That was basic. Whether it was adopted today in the fourth year of office, before the election at the end of the term or has been passed before, is absolutely subordinate. Why? Because every time a similar, similar remark about how it was a pre-election trick, the law, the fees were also in the first round of tax reform and when income tax was cut and when there was a personal deduction and when children's deductions were increased, when they were coming down, coming down or changing income tax rates, when, when VAT was reduced, it was always, when we increased the minimum wage that is now in net amount of 3,250 kuna, always a fundamental observation when something good is done, when it is acceptable, when it is good, the opposition is its right to suggest that it is not in fact concerned with the citizens that in this case absolutely is. Above all, I care about helping older people in Croatia, rather than being pre-election, pre-election tricks, pre-election gifts made by the ruling party or by the ruling majority. So it's absolutely, such an observation is missed. It is good that something the HDZ wrote in its programme, in its term of office, and as Mrs Jelkovac said earlier, the term of office takes four years, is that you brought something in 1, 2, 3 or 4, it is important that you realized your election promise, that is what is particularly important. What you would certainly like to support is that HZMO has the capacity, administrative, professional to carry out this and that it calculates and delivers this kind of fee. And all those who are saying that abuse could occur, who say that the conditions are not sufficiently prescribed, in accordance with Article 12 of this Law, it is envisaged that the Institute once a year checks whether a person who is receiving such a national fee still fulfils the conditions, whether there has been a change, whether something wrong at the beginning of the bill has been calculated, whether he has now acquired a certain amount of money passing the censorship of the rules in Article 5 of the Law, so certain abuses, certain errors may be allowed to be sanctioned, and then clearly, if that is done on purpose, that money is returned. What's good is it's good to make this law this way. That he does not represent, assumes the problem, is not a problem for a person who meets the requirements of this money and gets to that fee and comes and that's what it is to praise. And if a simpler, better fuse is clearly found, the amendment can certainly cover it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206864	The first replica was sought by Mr. Milorad Batinić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206865	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Bačić, I know when the social care strategy was under discussion until the '20s, we at the HNS Club were then asked to be introduced in 2020. Turns out in 2021, it means the transition from one year to the next, so you wouldn't say that this is and we supported that strategy, and we think that this way is good, and by the logic of things, it's based on the program when it's announced that it's going to be.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206866	Thank you very much, Mr. Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206867	I thank Mr. Batinich for your replica... That's right. [[You can't hear a bogey from a bench.]] I think this, the introduction and adoption of this law is the result of our agreements to move into the realisation of this programme. Was that made in 2020? We had some other priorities at the time, then we increased other taxes, then we brought tax reform, we came up with a state budget. The moment when the government decided to move into this procedure, it was clear that this law was passed. I absolutely don't see anything controversial about it. However, the transfer or criticism of what has been brought here, I said earlier, has been completely missed. It is important for the institute to be established and to help citizens to live more easily, in this way and in this way, for national compensation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206868	Mr. Željko Glasnović has another replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206869	Dear Mr. Bacic, this is quite simple. I'm just wondering how you and the young gentleman from retirement and work and there the ministry will be filling out pensions. We have half a million people living in the Republic of Croatia on welfare, and we have a working relationship with those working at 1.2.1. Countries that have 4:1 ratios like Canada have problems filling this pension system. How are you going to maintain that system? I don't know, I should, there needs creative accounting and magic and voodoo. Secondly, some countries have simple criteria, simple criteria. You have older people, these pensions for, age pensions, standard pensions that are consistent with inflation, deflation, etc., and you have a job internship, that's a second pension. And if you want to work after 65. You can work. The last question is this. What is the pension system of the Republic of Croatia called '90s? in the account, how much money when was this independent state of Croatia declared? That's the last question.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206870	Mr. Bacic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206871	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A fellow Glasnovic, in order to better fill the fund, the pension fund, needs to establish economic growth, a reduction in the number of unemployed, or a priority increase and the number of employees. And that's what this government, I suppose, is familiar with, before this crown of crisis established the largest number of employees since 1990. With GDP growth, salary growth has been increasing and HZMO stands. But this fee will not be raised and paid on the burden of the pension fund on the basis of the contribution for pension insurance which is the funds for pension insurance here but will be paid from general income, hence, from, above all, taxes and other and other revenues of the state budget. Therefore, that part will not endanger pensions, nor the pension system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206872	Thank you. Mrs. Devereaux. Leakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206873	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Bacic, you said that the HDZ's bill fulfilled its pre-election promise. I found you in the election program four years ago, so you promised to receive a national pension, not a national fee, from a person over 65. which have no other sources of income, and Croatian citizens who have a residence in the Republic of Croatia at least 15 years old. The amount of national pensions will be determined according to the minimum wage amount and will be at least 40% of the minimum salary in the year in which the person is entitled to a national pension. So it's still not quite exactly what you said, so it's, that you're making a pre-election promise now because it was something else entirely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206874	Mr. Bacic, the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206875	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, we are pleased that you are reading the 2016 HDZ pre-election programme, there is much to learn and acquire knowledge on this programme and we are implementing it in this part as well. Now certain shades, I can agree with you, for example, we said that in the next 4 years. Then, four years ago. said we'd raise our pensions by 5%, so we increased them by 12. We said we'd increase the minimum pension, so we increased it by 15%. Meanwhile, there is a significant growth in GDP, meanwhile there is an increase in the number of employees, etc. etc. So, a lot of what we have promised in our election program we have done, not only have we done but we have done much more than what we have done in the election programme, such a programme will be now which we will achieve in the next term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206876	And finally, Mr. Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206877	Thank you, Vice President HS. Dear colleague Bacic, you said the opposition wanted to violate this bill. The truth is, perhaps, I'm sorry, at the very beginning, the minister actually said in his opening statement one thing that may have promoted many. It is that for this bill, there was a smaller working group, and then there was an extended working group. So, with the academic community, with professional people, with unions, with all those who could contribute to the creation of this law. Among other things, the Committee on Labour and the Pension System discussed the study of Prof. Bejakovic, who made one comparative analysis of all countries, all 100 countries that introduced certain fees, whether national, old or other pensions or giving or as compensation, and that was actually a contribution to this bill and the foundation of why 20 years. residences, why 65 C.E. And more. So it's a very serious draft law.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206878	Thanks, time. Mr. Bacic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206879	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear counterpart Babic, you're right, that's what the minister in his opening part said. Thus, social partners and trade unions and employers and scientific institutions participated in the draft law. So a number of the public were involved in passing the law itself. It's something that's been announced for a long time, this didn't fall from the sky, into the ribs. So it's like this, this instrument is announced, but it's only made now, but it's made and it's important. Therefore, I hear numerous objections from the opposition when it comes to the adoption of this law, we will see how they will vote on it whether they support it or not, it is on them, but they will give the best assessment of this law when we vote on this law. And like this now, their statements, their debates are, above all, in the function of their pre-election game, not the fact that they really have an objection to this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206880	Thank you very much. This concludes with the replicas and the next half hour will be positions on behalf of the club of representatives and independent representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206881	We now proceed with the Final Proposal of the National Compensation Act for the Elderly, the Emergency Procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 947. We're on an individual hearing that lasts five minutes. The first one's a colleague of Ljubica Maksimchuk's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206882	Thank you, Vice-President of HS, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Today is the proposal for a National Compensation Act. We've been discussing the bill almost all morning so far. We are aware that it refers to the most vulnerable group in our society, but this bill will at least make life easier for older people who do not have any income. The projections say that the fee would be eligible for 19 700 citizens in the following year. It is conditioned that they are over 65 years old, that they have not collected 15 years of employment, that they live 20 years of the last in the Republic of Croatia and that they have incomes in households less than 800 kuna per member of the family. Nearly 60,000 of our elderly have failed to meet the conditions for retirement, and it is evident that most women make up, so this results in women receiving more than one fee from men. Of course, a large number of women in rural areas who were shorter than men who participated in paid labor or who did not work at all, did seasonal work, or just perhaps engaged in agriculture. We are aware that 800 kuna is not much, but surely this most endangered group will be of great help. That the HDZ government is very socially sensitive we have seen throughout all these years, so that the minimum pension has recently been increased by 3.13%, so the pensions in this mandate have increased to 12% and the lowest to 15%. Of course, during the pension reform project the mothers were added another 6 months of employment for each child born or adopted, through the project They wanted, of course, the most vulnerable groups employed, these are women who were long on the labour market and could not be employed, but of course, what we should especially emphasize, and this is at the time of this coronary crisis where the government's intervention preserved a large number of jobs and, of course, intervened as quickly as possible and as quickly as possible, so here, I welcome and support the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206883	Thank you, too. There were no replicas to your exposure. Next up is colleague Karolina Leakovic, here's your co-workers.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206884	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. What my colleague Maximchuk was saying now, and what we've heard before from our new colleagues because it seems to me that some of the things that my colleagues and colleagues in HDZ have been saying all morning are being repeated all morning, I guess someone from the club wrote some of the thesis that you're going to be saying now and in the election campaign. So it turns out that HDZ has now proposed this National Compensation Act so that all women in rural areas who have not worked and have no 15 years of employment, and over 65 have received these 800 kuna. So, perhaps in a simple dictionary, you should say that not all women living in the rural area are older than 65 and have not worked to get 800 kuna because there are different criteria that can be met so that a person is a beneficiary, i.e. the beneficiary of this national fee. Just like colleagues and colleagues who used to speak from the opposition, or part of the opposition, I will say that I will uphold this law even though we are Mrs. In this morning's session of the Labour Committee, the pension system and the social partnership pointed to a number of shortcomings in this law, here, once again in good faith, I hope that at least some of the problems that we have pointed out will be taken into account, that you will respect some of the amendments that your colleagues will submit and that you are aware of how difficult it will be and therefore, after this period of adaptation this year, how difficult it will be for any of the following government to implement in the way you have proposed, so in HZMO this law. And I will also join those who have said that it seems to me that, therefore, this law should be the law passed in Minister Bedekovic's portfolio. Why was it transferred to Mr. Aladrovic, I don't know, maybe he's better listed in HDZ, maybe he's some new HDZ political star, so now he needs one of these laws. Since it has been shown in the present part of his mandate, and in particular when it comes to state aid measures to help entrepreneurs in preserving jobs, that although these were of course intervention measures should have been taken quickly, there have been many failures, and that in fact many workers, those to whom these support was actually intended, did not receive the full amount and support, but some entrepreneurs retained some of the state support. They are announced now, an audit has been announced, some new criteria have been announced, I don't know how it will work because here we read that pressures from entrepreneurship associations are coming, and we know how much HDZ is very happy to listen, so the requirements of the HUP are actually not retroactively applying these criteria or not revising support, and then, of course, in this context, this scandal that the media have discovered or which the media have pointed out these days, which is, in fact, the unintended use of funds intended for the employment of people with disabilities, since, of course, there were no criteria for which companies and in which activities, we support the actual preservation of jobs. I'll just point out that, of course, in relation to the health and economic crisis ahead of us, but even before that, in Croatia we're fighting poverty and Eurostat data actually say that some, some fifth of the population, so RH at risk of poverty, and the data about almost half or something even more than half of the population of the Republic of Croatia can't actually afford some extraordinary cost, whether it's about repairing a household apparatus, whether it's about repairing a car, whether it's about something third that's coming, indicates that even at this time before the crown, even though we've had a slightly more favourable economic opportunity, we haven't actually run a policy that would be a policy against poverty or a policy to combat poverty, so that this kind of palitative measures, here I will, but I don't think that it't really solve the problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206885	We've got one replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206886	Fellow Members of Leaković, of course that the national age fee according to its content, belongs in character to social care benefits. Of course it can be paid as children's payments from various systems are paid, it doesn't have to be HZMO at all, so it's possible to do that, it needs to be distinguished from where the money comes from. But what is not logical is that in most of these users guaranteed cash compensations, guaranteed minimum social care fees and the social security system has data, they also have for those who do not meet it, so it was certainly easier and more justified to arrange all of this in the social care system, or in this competent ministry unless it is intended to do this, some new construction site.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206887	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206888	As I said before, we also pointed out to the Secretary of State that their colleague Bedekovic should actually be taken into account as Minister of Demography, Family, Youth and Social Policy on this kind of social income or social assistance. But I'm saying, perhaps some other interests are behind the proposal that I was talking about earlier, so the national pension proposed by HDZ, and now turned into a national compensation, but actually remained in the same ministry in the jurisdiction of the same new HDZ political stars. I'm saying, although I'm well-intentioned and I don't want to repeat what my colleagues said this morning that it was pre-election, pre-election law. Here, I can't help but get the impression that there's still some of it in this.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206889	Thank you. Before continuing, a colleague, Lovrinović, is looking for a break on behalf of the Living Wall's Club of Representatives and let's change Croatia, please. ... No, you've raised your hand, now I can't, I can't do it anymore, don't be angry now, I mean. [[You can't hear a bogey from a bench.]] I have a Rules of Procedure here, an apology.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206890	Dear Vice President, in front of the Representatives' Club, let's change Croatia and the Living Wall for a five-minute break, which concerns this national fee proposal. We in the Party Change Croatia will support any increase, improvement of citizens' standards, whatever 100,00 kn, 200, 50,00 kn. But you promised three years ago. that you will enter this program. I'm asking you why you've been waiting for 3 years. Because you could pay people 3 years. $800,00 a month, and that would mean a lot to them in this crisis? You didn't do it, you did it two months before the election. It's quite clear that people, that you use such mechanisms, that you just rub people's eyes, that they simply vote in elections for you. You recorded that there are about 20,000 people living hard. I'm saying, we won't be against it, but you've thrown those people crumbs. I remind you that the average pension, today the pensioners can't live on average, they live on, from, of, of 2,500,00 kn, it's a poverty zone, let alone 800,00 kn. So, what is this, dear citizens? This is a show where 20,000 people will be divided by 800 kuna a month, and billions of kunas are being robbed in this country. Croatia has been robbed, why do pensioners have small pensions? Well, it's because Croatia's been thoroughly stolen. That's what this is about. And how are there going to be more pensions now? I can't, that's why the average pension is 39%. In that sense, I invite you, dear pensioners. On you, every month performs the most HRT due to non-payment of fees, you can't live. Let's change Croatia, make it finally different.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206891	Thank you. So in accordance with Article. I'll take a break until 14 o'clock and 25 minutes. Thank you. ... If, if you agree, it's not, it's not, slowly, so if you agree, it can be 5, I'm not audited, so at 14.20 we continue. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] It's 2:15 a.m. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 14.20 HOURS]] Next up is a colleague of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206893	Dear Mr. Vice President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, as I did in the debate on behalf of the club, said that this law is a major pre-election outflow of HDZ's love to the poorest citizens of Croatia, over 65 years old for small money and with a delay and that it is an illusion of concern for those older people whom we don't even know a number, we don't even know where they are because we don't have a review and distribution of poverty in the Republic of Croatia or in urban or rural areas. Regardless of what I said in the introduction or in the address in front of the MPs' club we will support this institute, we will support this institute because it is necessary because if we once introduce it, then we will fix it, and I guarantee you that by the end of this year, some new government here will repair this law because it is in one piece inconclusive. In one part it's inconclusive, you can laugh, you can scream whatever you want, but it would be nice to study the amendment that I sent you in front of the Club of Representatives of HSU, Independent Representatives and SNAGE because he's trying to solve the problem you missed. In fact, you have in the law a domestic situation, a narrative situation to ask those who in any way have paid their contributions and are receiving a pension, for example. Agricultural pension of 500 kuna family, such as those, are old agricultural pensions made before 1 January 1999. By 31.12.1998, you are asking someone to give up a pension resulting from a payment of some contributions or a one - time payment and to take over a national fee for age. It's a narcissistic situation, that you're asking someone who's been paying the contributions to give it up. It can't go like that. On the other hand, the Pension Insurance Act does not allow a person, on his own request, to give up his pension. If a person is hired to give up his pension, the person who dies is not paid more pensions, but at the personal request of the Pension Insurance Act, there is no such possibility. That is why we want to fix this amendment law to tell you that in these cases you should install an exception in Article 5(2) if it is such situations, leave that pension at your expense and add up to 800 kuna. A very elegant and normal legal solution. If you're not going to play and you're breaking the law, you're breaking the law, but you have a solution here in hand or in amendment. The second is the amendment more, I think it was your lapus in writing, it's more of a nomotechnical nature because it's been subdued into the law by a personification where you say that the data you're asking for from other services must be determined to define the rights. I don't think the data can be determined, only people can be determined, and that data can be decisive or necessary to determine someone's right, should I say again it's very elegant for you to fix the text of the law. It's not about the editorial, you could have seen it when you lectured, but it's our duty to make it right. And in conclusion, there's no need to do any new data file, new investment, new system in HZMO, it's not true that there are extra experts. HZMO has a shortage of professional workers to process pensions and issue solutions regardless of the large investment that you pompously announced of 166 million if I am not wrong about kunas in these systems, therefore this is unnecessary. for HZMO and for this ministry. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206894	Thank you, thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. Next is my colleague, Boric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206895	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, here's something I'd like to say about the National Compensation Act for the elderly because I think it's marked by three thesis that I'm going to tell you about. The first is the long-term promise that it will be introduced already, and we heard today about 20 years, there have been governments of different profiles in those 20 years, and apparently the government that had the power to write it down first in the election programme, and then put it in the government's programme and finally bring that and that law into the debate and I believe that we will bring it in regardless of the attempt to challenge it from those of whom we do not expect, who promote themselves on these groups of populations of older people as their own protectors who are unique and exclusive and relevant to care for them. Even the parties are called that way, they bought certain social groups and called parties such as the Croatian party of pensioners who should take care of these people, not only the pensioners, but also the elderly ones who have failed to exercise their rights, and in 20 years I say again, this government that has solved many other problems that have retired in 20 years, but have always been closed in the drawer, there was no courage. The second moment is, the solutions that are offered, I think they are very clear and that the criteria are set. So, for the elderly who haven't been able to collect 15 years of internships that live 20 years. in the Republic of Croatia and whose household, there is a certain income census that does not exceed €800,00 per household member. And about that, I say, today we are having a debate with the fact that unfortunately we had to listen to the threats of some parties worth 0.2 in all the polls, or they don't have any support of anyone at all, that they're going to clean us up because we're doing damage to this people by passing these laws. Unfortunately, there is no colleague who threatens to clean us up every day, no, together with the citizens, he's not even in the polls, he's not even in the assembly, and he just doesn't know how to answer them. When he speaks for the club, there's nothing you can do to him, when he needs something to say, then he's gone. It's simple, and the second is this 0.5% that somehow got back on the SDP and all the time tells us that we don't know the policy towards the pensioners, that this set of brains that was in the 2011-2015 period when Hrelja was part of that coalition, and that, a colleague of the Hrelja coalition, they succeeded with all the knowledge, whatever they knew and could, with all the ministers such as counterpart Maras or MP Djujic, were able to raise those pensions by about 4.6% if I looked at it well, with all the problems of that time, they were dragged away and the problem...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206896	A colleague of the Hill, please, you have yellow, I apologize, just a little bit. So, colleague, colleague Hrelja, license plate, table please, thank you. Please proceed.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206897	He's interrupted my thought now. I have to start over now. So, at that time, we remember those security guards from the Royal Security Service that the Temple of the Lord was very hard at stake and no one wanted to respect him. Look here, here's the situation. My colleague Maras never experienced him at all in the government, he didn't want to raise his hand for anything. But the government came and solved it. This government has managed to solve it. Who's the biggest opponent of this government? It's just a retirement party. Why? Because in this term, as far as I was able to track, no matter what the problems and everything we inherited, we managed to raise those pensions by about 12 percent of all. For the lowest, I think, about 250,000 citizens and 15%. So that bothers them and they were against all the laws here. Today they come out as protectors, we'll do anything for you, whatever it takes, we'll solve everything. And then the funniest situation. I'm reading Mr. Hrelje's interview three months ago on this subject in one portal. He says this is Mr. Plenkovic's biggest nonsense. And today he says, I support it. That's the stupidest thing and that dead-end job. Can you imagine the way that this line of dignity of individuals who have taken the right to speak for themselves on behalf of certain groups and who do not want to help them? When they are offered what it is, as they have said, such aid, 800,00 kn monthly is not small, it is not too safe, but they say it is not good and yet since it is not good for the SDP Club and colleagues of Hrelja they will vote for it. Thank you. I thank you, we'll bring it back without you as well as anything else so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206898	Thank you. We have three replicas, first fellow Djujic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206899	Thank you very much. Comrade Boric, so this very last sentence of yours, we will bring it along without you best paints the entire policy of your government, say in this crisis, all the time you're acting me, me, me, and just me and okay and continue to act. This one, in a month's time, it won't matter at all what you want or what you don't want anymore, so that's it. But what, what do I want to tell you? So we've also been making a series of suggestions all this time while you've been in self isolation on this island of Rab, in Lopar, you weren't here in the assembly, you probably listened to Mr. Capak who then said "stay home don't go anywhere" this day saying something different, he should have said it before, so he wouldn't deny us for these discussions of yours these months and a half. But look, this is a scam. We're gonna support this, but this isn't a permanent solution, this is subject to review, that's what we're talking about. We've been making suggestions to make this proposal better. Why didn't you give a national pension that would be permanent, so that when people exercise the right to 800,00 kn to have it to their death And not every year you do a review? [[Intruder: Thank you, colleague Đujic]] After the election you'll say we were joking. [[Intruder: Thank you, colleague Đujic]] Here's the review you're no longer entitled to, the election's over.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206900	Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206901	Thank you very much. Dear Chairman, you keep letting him pass the time. I think at some point you can say whatever you need to say. Comrade Djujic, I'm just telling the truth, I didn't say anything wrong. But the truth is it actually surprised you, too, because as far as I can see, you've decided that even in this time you've now called pre-election you're rebooting yourself. So, to declare absolutely everything that's happened for you and for you that it wasn't, and that you're all new people and colleagues, Djujic and colleagues Maras and colleagues of Hrelja because when you restart practically from the beginning, we're all going from a new one, like you're out of a diaper, and I'm talking about the time where you still made decisions. And that time has certain numbers being monitored and you can't tell me that you raised 30% if it was 4%, and we can say how much it is, but you want to challenge it and say it's not true. It's true and that's where citizens have to see or know who stands for them, who wants them well, and who just wants to act like they want to do something, and they're basically against everything. And that's true.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206902	Thank you. Replica No. Two colleagues of the Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206903	Comrade Boric, your pride is never enough. But we remember a long term here and I stand behind every word I've said and when I say that this law will go into 2 readings, that the procedure will be respected, that the opinions of the ombudsman will be respected as the powers of HS. And I also know the failures of former governments and yours because your governments were 20 years ago. when I came to this assembly and your governments were promised and I said despite everything, despite the hollow law, despite the passing of the law in pre-election time this institute in the function of fighting poverty for which you do not even know what it is or will ever know is needed by the Republic of Croatia. And that's the only reason I'm voting for this.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206904	Thank you, thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206905	Thank you. I'll read your part of the interview that you, Hrelja on the government's announcement of national pensions, let the flaws of the work, and in an interview I would ask Minister Aladrovic and Prime Minister Plenkovic to step down from this nonsense...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206906	A colleague of Hrelj, a colleague of Hrelja according to Article 239. I am warning you Thank you, too. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you, notice.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206907	A parliamentary representative who holds on to his dignity after making excuses in public space, then comes here and says I support it, but it's nonsense, it's a dead end job. What will you support? That's why I said, we can bring it in without you, as we've solved, and that question of these Royal security guards means even though you've done something for them, as we've solved, and everything we've promised our pensioners and you've denied the right, my father is a retired man he'll never vote for him no matter what his party's name is and wherever he's buckled. They just don't want to understand it, they're really making some kind of confusion between these people, and they think that when they're here, they're voting for HSU that they're going to solve something for them. They didn't solve anything, four years when they could, nothing.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206908	Thank you, thank you, thank you. Replica number three, fellow Maras, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206909	Thank you very much. Comrade Boric, you've seen, you've prepared a lot for your debate, you've been spinning this little piece of paper, there's probably weeks of preparation to sum up on that page, so I'm interested in your thinking about why right now. It means whether it makes sense for you to raise or to give this supplement at the time of the drop in GDP is 10% and at the time of the growth in 2017. Three percent of them didn't think about it then. Is that a coincidence, a coincidence, or what happened here? So, is that where the government may have caved in under your efforts because you've worked hard within the HDZ to figure out that measure, say, the citizens would be very happy to hear it. If this is about your involvement, here's what I'm going to publicly commend you for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206910	Here's my colleague Boric's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206911	Thank you very much. I'm used to it. I'm used to it from you. I'm getting ready for my debates, I'm not like you guys to be able to get out of the kitchen so I can run to the assembly and talk about everything and everything right now because it just ends up kind of in a way that doesn't turn out to be unserious. What I was talking about yesterday, the way you're making fun of this headquarters, crisis headquarters and individuals in it just says that about you as a person, no. Unfortunately, you weren't here yesterday, so you didn't listen to it. It's just that people who have never done anything, there's nothing behind them, and today they give themselves the right to really give everyone lessons about everything, about all the areas of life, to know everything. What's behind the rest? After their term of office, nothing, ten thousand shut down companies, crafts, except a few memories of travel to Las Vegas, an elevator you traveled with as a minister, and that's the only thing you can go out with in front of the people and maybe the people will accept it, I would never vote for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206912	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. There's a colleague, Maras, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206913	Thank you very much, thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, give me a few seconds to come to my senses after Mr. Boric's reply because he really scored and it's hard to catch the thought after him now that he gets you rhetorically. Here, I'll try to keep going. So, colleagues and fellow MPs, Mr. Vice President, what I said at the very beginning, I'll keep talking like that. So, it is very illogical what the government is doing, it is logical to help people who need help, but illogical to do it literally in the last hours of the term of office because it will probably be at the last vote on Monday when the Croatian Parliament is disbanded and that it has not been done 3 years earlier. So that would be something that would make it very difficult for any of us in the opposition to do it for the sake of choice. So if you do it in 2017 until the election is 3 years, but if you do it now in the 5th month of 2020 then it is known that it is only for election and more application and 1. 2021, so that's something that's very obvious. But not to worry about whether the citizens will recognize it and whether they recognize the whole moment and whether that magic around the headquarters and the expertise flew away as it was present at the moment, means if I'm telling you this with a view to telling you a lot of beliefs, believe me, I listen to what the citizens say every day, I watch what journalists ask at these press conferences. I see Prime Minister Plenkovic disobeyed my advice, so I strongly recommend that he once again put that headquarters in self-insulation at 2 o'clock because he has the damage right now. I wish that headquarters had presses until the election, every day and every candidate on the list, here I would love it. Otherwise, I think that Mr. Capak, unfortunately, destroyed his potent political career the day before yesterday, means that he didn't, if he hadn't celebrated himself with this self-insulation statement, he'd probably put the HDZ on the list, so I doubt he'd put it on, and I think it's a good idea to stick to his profession and it would be good if HDZ had removed completely from that headquarters and eventually had damage and expertise in Croatia, because no one would ever trust people who are professional because of this situation in this way, put their paws on headquarters and hired absolutely all HDZ officers in that headquarters. So there are no party people who are not, who are away from HDZ. So I can't wait for Mr. Boric and the campaign and the elections, but I have to think about the voters, especially the City of Zagreb. So I can't go to the elections unless the Zagreb and Zagreb women know when they will return to their homes, how the state will help them, whether the state will help them, can't be satisfied with the little things and crumbs that Prime Minister Plenkovic promised to pay for the rent of the apartment or that Štromar will give 20,000 to chimneys and roofs, as long as we don't have a clear message from the state that he will stand behind Zagreb and Zagreb, that schools and hospitals will immediately be renewed, that people don't have to collect in his arrangement money. I'm talking about Petrova, the hospital, or the schools downtown. Until that moment of choice shouldn't be and I think it's a very simple message. Even these spin-variances that say that some law will be passed in the government and we will go to the elections, and when the Parliament is again formed that the law will be passed, I don't think it has anything to do with the relationship because when you give in the Parliament's term of office, it ceases to be and must be re-proposed by one and the same. So I would like the HDZ people to understand that the Zagreb and Zagreb women will not forgive them, nor will they approve anything. I am convinced, people who have received 800 kuna today or will receive in 2021, but Zagreb and Zagreb will not forgive the coalition and support of Bandic and that Zagreb is forgotten, and Zagreb is forgotten. Enough to walk around town and see what it looks like. So it's a shame that the capital of the Republic of Croatia two months after the earthquake looks what it looks like. That Bandic's godmothers make huge money on the Zagreb accident and that the law is still missing. And Italy passed the law after the earthquake in 40 days, in 40 days a law was passed in Italy, in Croatia, the capital of the Republic of Croatia has already been 2 months, there is nothing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206914	Thank you. Two replicas, first fellow Djujic, followed by counterpart Branko Martinchev. Here's my colleague, Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206915	Thank you very much, Vice President. Comrade Maras, at the end of your debate, you essentially showed things how this government is doing everything wrong because to do what is right, we would be discussing this very law today, about the restoration of the city of Zagreb. And we would have discussed this a year or two ago. But we won't have the law to rebuild the city of Zagreb and you said this well today, so we're going back to normal, the Post has given in all measures, the crowds are in town. I don't know if you see it, half the city is closed, so you can't get to the center. You have to circle around because, I don't know, the city has either an incompetent mayor or has a bad government that hasn't done anything, and now we're discussing the law we were supposed to discuss two years ago, and the law we were supposed to discuss a month, a month and a half ago we're not even discussing today. And that's what needs to be pointed out and you're right, the citizens see it and the citizens will value it. Two months is close, but It's far enough for people to see [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Everything this government has [[Intruder: Thank you.]] it also works in what interests; and [[Intruder: Thank you.]] For whom and for whom. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206916	Thank you. Comrade Maras, here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206917	Thank you very much, Mr. Giujic. Not to talk about months now and that someone is hoping that the election will be as much later as possible so it will be harder for HDZ, I'm sure at this point that this spell has disappeared around the Staff and that in a month and a half now you'll see what it's going to look like together. So I'm even in favour, if Monday's Parliament disbands, the election will be as soon as possible. Not the weekend when it's a holiday, but 28.6. I think it would be the most convenient date for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia if HDZ is making elections for itself. So, you don't think I'd like to go through with it, I want it done as soon as possible because believe me, citizens will recognize the HDZ it does, how it works and why, I would say, is in a hurry to vote, and on the other hand, in the city of Zagreb, which is why Bandic continues to support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206918	Thank you. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206919	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, colleague Maras, you keep saying that this law is passed, that the government is bringing in this pre-election time and that it has done so far. All the time this government has been taking care of and taking care of the most vulnerable, about pensioners, about women, from the very beginning it can be seen that precisely during this government pension has increased by 12%, which is twice as much as the 3 previous governments. Minimum pension increased by 15%, 14 thousand pensioners now have the opportunity to work part-time. We have a project called Desires that provides help in the house for older and powerless, hiring women who are most vulnerable and in poorer status. An additional six-month period for each child born and adopted is also possible, so it does not say that this government has done nothing about the most vulnerable at all times and that this law is passed only at this pre-election time.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206920	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206921	Thank you very much, ma'am. Branka. So that's your vision, but I'm only talking about the fact that this law could have been passed three years ago and it hasn't. So it's only timing that says it's pre-election law. If people all say it's a pre-election law, if it's an impression, it's done in two readings, or in one reading, it means in an emergency procedure to get to this, so that some people, though, won't feel it, no. How many of these 20,000 people will even become aware that they will receive some money in 1.1.2021, then. It would have been much more effective if it had been done half a year earlier. So if there's any use for the government, it's supposed to be there. What's done now, I guarantee you that out of those 20,000 people, no one will even realize that there's anything until they're right in 2021 or until they can get the money. The timing is the only one suggesting it's a choice. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206922	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. Next is colleague Željko Lacković, please welcome colleague Lacković.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206923	Thank you, Vice President. So, I would like to say through this debate, that something that we have pointed out today in the presentation and presentation of this legislative proposal on the Committee on Labour and Pensions. Namely, it's an art. 5. which prescribes a circle of persons who make a fee or disqualify them from exercising the right to compensation, so to speak. Paragraph 5 of the 5th century says he did not enter into a life-restraint contract or a life-restraint contract as a maintenance recipient. I would like to point out that these contracts are actually bilaterally legally binding contracts. So if you went after not to, this national fee is not considered a pension but a certain kind of social compensation and that property censorship is not the key to winning, then you have to be aware that these contracts are actually a property censorship, and you used it and you shut it down. So, we excluded those people who have no income, and they have hundreds of thousands of euros in the bank or they have children who have, to whom they have prescribed their apartments, if they meet the other conditions, they will be able to exercise the right to a national fee by not looking at property, property censorship, and here you put the property censorship in section 5. Now, I believe that many older people have concluded with their children a variety of contracts from the fact that they have more children that those who live with them leave that property and that these contracts are executed in one way that children should actually take care of their parents, and you have excluded those people or persons by introducing this section 5. What points to the additional unfairness of such a solution, and I have made an amendment to add item 6. It is that those persons who would have the right to a national compensation do not exercise the right to support their mate and the outsider mate and children. So you need to know that it is the obligation of parents to support children per article. 281. Family law, but it's also an obligation for children to support their parents. So this is both right and obligation. So you can't admit to a right if, on a national charge, he won't use the right he has under the law and allows his child to support him. If we said it didn't matter, but why does it matter what you prescribed in Art. 5. What is your total contradiction? I therefore believe that, for reasons of justice or to remove Article 5, or to introduce this 6 and thus to equate all those who have someone, they have a legitimate legal right that prevents them from this law, that they may seek, and if their children cannot give them or on a vertical line have no one to ask for it, then it would be fair to grant them that compensation. I also believe that this is important from the economic justification of the availability of the state budget, we see that practically these funds will be covered by loans because the state is in debt, and then we deploy these funds most justly and we keep an eye on each kuna in the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206924	Thank you, too. We continue with an individual debate, next is colleague Tomislav Žagar, here's a colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206925	Thank you, Vice President HS, distinguished ministers, respected State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. So, in the introduction, I immediately say that I will support this legislative proposal. My colleague Hrelja has announced amendments, one is more technical, and the other is much more serious, I hope you will accept it. What we can say is that the task of every society, including Croatian society, is to fight poverty. We are not the only country in which poverty is taking more and more swings, but we are the country where the measures we are fighting against poverty and our strategy often collect dust in a drawer and we do not use them enough to prevent all the risks that lead to poverty. In this regard, I can say that this legal proposal solves the consequences, not the cause, but the consequences, and enables all older people of 65. which failed to meet the conditions necessary for retirement, therefore, from different or different objective and subjective circumstances, 15 g. an internship, cannot achieve any income or social benefits from the Ministry of Social Affairs, at the request of those receipts, they do not want to receive such a form of income because it simply makes them less valuable, so to speak. So this legal proposal solves the consequences. What my colleague Hrelja said in his, in his, in his debate on behalf of the club, it seems to me that it is very important to mention, the responsibility for the emergence of poverty or the coming into poverty of a particular person is not just her responsibility. In many cases, it is society's responsibility. If we remember ourselves, it was all a long time ago in 2007, if we remember Cardinal Bozanić's letter about the sin of the structure, if you remember the basic line of that letter in which he says that individuals, individuals networked in their private interests, made it impossible for many to come to their legitimate interests and which with this sin structure made it possible to enrich individuals at the expense of many and today we inherit these problems precisely through the poverty that is being manifested today. So it's not just an individual who's guilty of his condition because poverty is the most common permanent state, it's hard to get out of it, which makes this bill make sense. When we talk about permanent problems of poverty in the Republic of Croatia, then we cannot avoid structural problems. If we look at HZZ data, if we try to classify unemployed people by age, by gender and by age, then we see that at the risk of poverty in a few months, here we take 10 years as a reference framework, it becomes a person over 65. We can expect at least 30 to 40,000 of these persons, and among them are women, because in all age groups on HZZ there are women who are, who are, who have a larger number. Of course, the situation for employment is people, and here we are, I have only observed people over the age of 40, that their employment is difficult, especially when it comes to women, very few who will hire them, especially now at times when the crisis is coming and therefore there is no doubt that this law is necessary. What we can expect, as my colleagues warn, has now seemed very, very, very important to me that my colleague Lackovic also noted regarding this, with the life or life support agreements. In the future, then, it will be necessary to think carefully that this law is not unfair in its implementing part, so that many who should receive this compensation do not get it, and those who should not, in turn, get it. So it's going to take control. In the end, I'm going to do it anyway. I'm going to give it a review. I also believe that this should have gone into two readings, and not as early as possible, so that more things could be adopted, to improve this legislative proposal. Since there is, closer elections, I can't take the impression that it's pre-election law either. You know why? Because those funds will need to be provided by another government. And another one, Minister, a note, I must tell you. Yesterday we saw in the budget rebalancing that there were no funds for additional health insurance that were announced to the people to whom the state would pay.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206926	Thank you. That's what ended the individual debate. Now we have one application for a final hearing. It is the application of a colleague of Lovrinović in front of the Living Wall's Club of Representatives and let's change Croatia, finally. Here's my colleague, Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206927	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I especially welcome you citizens because you are the only one who matters here. You write a lot to me. Why do I talk when there's no counsel. Well, respected citizens, I don't speak to MPs at all because they have the views of their parties, their leaders, and I want to represent your interests here. The peace system is permanently unstable in Croatia. I would like to remind you that the average pension in 1999 was 75% compared to the average salary, which is 39% today. The pensioners, the average pensioner gets 2500 kuna, it's a poverty zone, of which you can't live. It's about 2,000 years ago. In '99, 2000, the World Bank here found fertile soil for its idea to convince the political furniture at the time, and then it was on the SDP stage that by some miracle, to launch Project II. The pension pillar and Croatia agreed to it. Slovenia never, even Serbia, you see. Croatia is the only country, not in the EU, but in Europe that has II. Retirement column. That's the model Chile's been going through, keep track of the situation in Chile for the past few months, for the last year, two, what kind of riots are due to a bad pension system in Chile. That's not what we're discussing here. We even came into a situation today that this government wants pension funds, mandatory pension funds to be the most important financiers of saving the Croatian economy, so that they, not banks, can be in debt with the CNB from 5 to 15 billion kuna, and that is the project, you see, dear citizens. What solution do we from the party change Croatia offer? So we offer solutions to major problems. The solution is to transform II. Retirement column. In what way? There we could use the solution of Hungary and the Czech Republic. What did they do? Within 60 days, it is up to all citizens who had no choice but to be forced into II. The pension column and citizens could only choose which fund. The Hungarians said like this, here's 60 days, all of you decide, will you be in the I. Mandatory pension fund, guaranteed by the state, or will you be in a voluntary pension fund where there's no investment limit, but for you there's no guarantee of a state. If you decide to transfer your money from II. Get into a voluntary fund, write down a request. All of you who do not write the request will feel that you want to go to the I. pension column or to the mandatory pension fund. And there over 90% of the members have gone to the I.P., meaning solidarity, intergenerational solidarity. What are the consequences for Croatia, if we do this and we will implement it as a party after the election. The public debt of Croatia will be reduced to a maximum of 45%, and now it means, due to this crisis, it will reach 90%. 45%, tops. It will heal public finances, there will be no deficit of the state budget per year. He's going to grow pensions. How, how's he gonna raise his pension? Dear citizens, you are not familiar with the data, most of you, that from the time of establishment II. It enters these one 16, 17 years the only ones who have earned clean money, these are pension fund management companies, which it has 4, owned by foreign banks, so our pension system is privatized in II. The pillar, it's not us we decide. It's the foreigners. So that 9, 10 billion would remain for you, dear pensioners, if it were done properly, not to draw that money and transfer it abroad. It's a word of over nine billion kunas, commissions, fees, this one, that one. So we need solutions, but here they are shining over the media that are being paid, which, I don't know what, uh, you've been making all the arrangements, but there's nothing out of those false promises. Our pensioners are getting harder and harder to live. These are the most carried out and the most likely cause, most often the HRT is based on subscriptions. They are the subject of blockades, therefore, the elections and respected pensioners and dear citizens come, let's open our eyes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206928	Thank you. Thank you. We now have an intervention on behalf of the motionor. Minister Josip Aladrovic. Here you go, buddy. That's it. Actually, go ahead, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206929	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, honourable MPs, respected MPs. Here, a multi-hour, very interesting debate and this, in fact, I would like to thank all those who participated in the debate and, of course, with their constructive proposals contributed to the debate itself. What with this debate and all that we have heard today, in some way as a proposer, is that we have received signals to, therefore, make a positive statement about this law and we believe that it is therefore in such a way that a certain consensus is achieved and that what we propose HS is indeed a quality document that solves certain structural problems that have accumulated for some time. As for the timing itself, so what we could hear about the timing and the process of lawmaking, I would remind you once again, that we have defined this law as a law within our age-old strategy, that it is defined as a deadline in which a legislative solution is to be adopted in 2020. That doesn't mean this law is quick to come up with. I'll remind you one more time, so we're already 2018. with the Institute of Public Finance, they analysed that during 2019. The established working group, which is practically one longer period, for almost a year, has been grinding this law and grooming it to actually this level that we can see today and, of course, we expected implementation during 2020. Finally, it can also be seen from the official documents of the Government of the Republic of Croatia where the legislative action plan was drawn for 2020, and in 2019 certain segments, in 2020, certain segments through the national reform programme. So as far as timing is concerned, I think we've made it very clear here that the timing is what we expected and plotted before the law itself or when it was defined. Another issue, another question that has been raised, is this law more related to social security or the pension system? And I said it again, but I'm going to do it again, so there are very uneven practices with similar legal solutions, it has certain elements and social security, but also certain elements of the pension system. What we have decided, therefore, is for the Ministry of Labour and Pension System to be the holder of this law and for HZMO to be an implementing institution because of the level of efficiency, because of economics and ultimately because of certain knowledge, technical assumptions and human capacities to be an implementing body. So I think it's a good decision, and I think that this way we will be very effective in solving all the requirements that arise about this legal solution. And finally, what we could hear in the debate, so about the financial effects of the law, we made very clear in the assessment of the fiscal impact, which are financial burdens for the next period. Of course, we expect that over time, the number of users will grow as is usually happening in such situations, but of course the indexation provided for in the law will also follow the increase, so these national fees that are actually being determined in this legal solution only as the beginning and I think at the end, and I will end up with that, that this way a very strong message has been sent about this one set of societies that belong to the most vulnerable groups that we have not forgotten about them, that we have also politically shown that we care about this, this vulnerable group and that we have in fact all of what we have promised in the programme itself, but that we have recognized as a social need in this way. Thank you, everyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206930	Thank you, too. We have two replicas on your exhibit. He is his first colleague, Lovrinović, and after him, a colleague named Žagar, here's a colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206931	Dear Minister, you would know what a retirement position is if you had an average pension of £2.500,00, only then would you know how pensioners live, especially if they have less than € 1,000,00, and there are tens of thousands. HDZ and SDP destroyed the pension system, an army of privatisation workers, robbed companies, developed defenders where they had nothing to do, was filled. You've all made a social system out of the pension system together. It's not a pension system, there's no pensions of decent work, human work during his work hours. So we have an insecure system. You're here, so celebrate what we're going to support. I said it's a 50,00 kn increase, I'll support it, but these are crumbs. Dear citizens, if you want to eat crumbs of these governments then only a dear God can help you, no one else can help you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206932	Thank you. Here's your answer if you like. Would you like some? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206933	Dear Mr. Lovrinović, well, here I am only going to make short contact with hard indicators or figures about what was done in the previous period, and we could hear it in the presentation of other parliamentary representatives. So 12% have increased pensions in this government's term. The lowest pension, therefore the pension that assumes the most vulnerable within the pension system, is increased by 15% and this increases, when compared to previous periods, two or three times as large as the previous periods. The peace system is complex, but it is also not a feature of the Croatian pension system but of pension systems as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206934	Thank you, too. And replica no. Two, here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206935	Thank you, Vice President HS. Dear Minister, yes you're right, that's the dilemma whether it's from the pension system or from the general taxes? In fact, by eliminating employment contributions of 1.7% and by actually transferring to health insurance in that part of the contribution, we have and, we have lost that potential that perhaps here is the problem we are solving through a contribution to employment. Because the problems that are going to arise tomorrow and that these people today have that haven't achieved their right to retire is exactly the fact that they're unemployed. They're not unemployed by their own free will, but they're gone. There's no job for them. I guess also because of their age structure and they'll probably be in a situation tomorrow that they'll have to use this kind of, this type of help. They do, they'd have a little more resources if it were from such contributions, but then we're back in the situation of burdening the economy. It's these circles and questions that it's not easy to answer, but that's the fate of the government, she has to find answers.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206936	Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206937	I thank the representative for asking. So, as far as it's concerned, it's a complex system, it's a system that's tied up, and it's a very connected and social and pension system or social benefits system with a pension system. However, once again I will take the opportunity to repeat, here we are talking about a new institute, we are talking about an institute that protects those people who have been actually marginalized in a formal legal sense and who had no right to any, no income. In view of these facts and the fact that this fee is financed from the general revenue of the budget, therefore we cannot bring it into line with contributions to pension and health insurance, we believe that this institution is very necessary, very positive in the resolution of the entire social and pension policy in the Republic of Croatia itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206938	Thank you, too. Thank you all for participating in the dynamic debate on the final proposal of the National Compensation Act for the elderly, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 947. That concludes the debate, and we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206939	We are going to make a statement on the amendments to the Final Proposal for a National Compensation Act for the Elderly, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 947. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives, MP Miranda Mrsic, the Party of Labour and Solidarity Club and Independent Representatives, MP Željko Lacković, representative Goran Maras, SDSS Club of Representatives, HSU Club of Representatives, SNAGE and Independent Representatives. The review of the amendments has been sent to you by electronic means. I would like to ask the proposer's representative to take note of the amendments submitted, State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour and Pension System Majda Buric. Please, first of all, Amendment 1 to the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206940	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. The first amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206941	It becomes an integral part of the law. 1. SDSS counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206942	The amendment is not accepted by reason that the proposed national fee is a fee that can be made by a Croatian citizen aged 65 years and beyond with a long-term permanent residence. It is unacceptable to exercise the right of a particular group of non-citizens of the Republic of Croatia and have not reached the age of 65 and have a short-term residence of 10 years. In this way, the basic conditions for the exercise of the right to a national compensation are adjudicated, making certain persons in a more favourable position than the other applicants.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206943	So we must vote on this amendment because there is no representative of the applicant. Third amendment Club of Labour Party Representatives and Solidarity and Independent Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206945	The amendment is not accepted. In the event of the termination of the life-restraint contract procedure, there is a uncertainty of the final outcome of the court proceedings, and it is therefore proposed that, until the end of that procedure, a person cannot use the right to a national compensation because this could lead to the inability to settle the demand in the event of a negative outcome. Also, a person in these cases may benefit from social care rights until a court case is closed.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206946	There are no representatives of the applicant, so we will vote on this amendment. We are now on the fourth amendment of MP Željko Lacković
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206948	The amendment is not accepted by reason of the proposal for reduced conditions for the exercise of the right to maintain family members in respect of the conditions laid down by the Social Care Act for the exercise of the right to guaranteed minimum compensation.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206949	The applicant is a respected representative of Lacković.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206950	I thank and welcome the secretary of state, so I am not satisfied with such a solution, and I have shown you during the debate on the Law on National Compensation that you have brought an unfair position to those persons who have therefore concluded bilaterally legally binding agreements with their children, so a life and life support agreement. If this is a reason to exclude yourself from receiving, then you have indirectly come into conflict with the intensities of the law that material status is not reflected in the exercise of that right. To be plastic, it means when you and your parents have a right to meet other conditions, you contract life support just to be cheaper in the event of death, use the right and obligation that the law provides... in Article 1, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: In 281. to provide your parent with restraint, you cannot, or your parent, obtain the right to a national fee and let's say I who do the same but didn't make a contract with my parents, so I can. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So this is contrary to you, this is a question of even the constitutionality of this provision and I believe that you should either accept this amendment by introducing paragraph 6 or excluding what you have provided for in paragraph 5, I request a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206951	Thank you. The fifth amendment of Attorney Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206952	The amendment is not accepted by reason of what is proposed as a condition for the exercise of the right to national compensation for older persons and this should be income or income rather than asset censorship and, if there is a discrepancy between income and assets, for the examination of that disproportionate or potential discrepancies, the IRS is competent.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206953	The applicant for the amendment is a respected representative of Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206954	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. It is clear that it is necessary to enable people who have low incomes or do not have them at all and in some way help them in their difficult social situation and we have talked about it and we will vote at the end for the law, not through the pension system, but through the welfare system, but this is about a rather obvious illogicality. So there's a possibility that a person has huge money in a bank account and simply during his working life or has not obtained the right to retire and has no pension and the money could have been obtained in a variety of ways, someone acquires by selling the property, someone acquires no income at all, etc., but money that can be significant and de facto lying at the bank and that person by us should not exercise the right to such assistance. If you have a million euros or ten million kuna on the bank in a situation where you're asking the state to pay you 800 kn, I don't think it would be normal, nor would this law be intended for such persons. I'm sorry that the state doesn't control or this way won't see whether it really ends up with those who need it, I guarantee you that 20,000 people who exercise their right and who will be able to apply for this kind of support next year, probably hundreds of them will have large assets primarily talking about banks, banks and that the state won't be able to establish it. And that's why I'm asking for this amendment to be voted on because I think it would be logical and I wouldn't tell the government, the crown fell off her head if she had accepted this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206955	Thank you. The sixth amendment of MP Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206956	The amendment is not accepted. Total household income is the best indicator of the financial situation in which the elderly person is located, property or other property is not a determining factor for the achievement of this new right which aims to improve the quality of life of older people who, during the working century, have failed to provide income for age due to objective or subjective differences. On the other hand, assets placed in the exercise of rights shall be taken into account by applying income or income censorship.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206957	Representative Miranda Mrsic and we will vote on that. The seventh amendment of the Club of Representatives of HSU, the Force of Independent Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206959	The amendment is not accepted. In fact, it is two separate systems, the pension is made on the basis of the completed pension standing, paid salaries and rests on the payment of contributions while national compensation for older people is provided with a basic level of social protection for age and does not have a foothold in the payment of contributions and previous work.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206960	Honorable representative Silvano Hrelja on behalf of the club of MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206961	Dear Secretary of State, you have just confirmed the ineligibleness of this law in the work where he asks that someone must give up a pension that may amount to 500 kn because you must know, the current pension, the lowest pension of 15 years if a family pension comes behind it, it amounts to 707 kn, it is less than this national fee. You're asking for someone to give up pensions based on a payment of contributions either once or as it was, are mostly agricultural and crafts pensions the hardest but there are workers, you're asking that one of them give up, he can't do it by law. You can't give up your pension on your own request, you can't stop paying off your new job, at death, but on your own request you can't give up your pension to take a national pension for old age, so we've offered you a kind of heart bypass so that these two laws can work for you. I can see that you didn't understand it, I'm very sorry, I'm very sorry, but we have experts in HSU who have been studying these systems, and nothing happens to us by chance, and we're not doing these amendments out of the obituary, we told you that we support the Institute because they promised it to the governments 20 years ago, and it's time to risk it with that system, no matter what we gave it various epithets and pre-election outflows of love and everything we've already said, but here we are in a function to fix the law, it's the task of every parliamentary agent, and just from that point of view we're doing this.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206962	Are you asking for a vote? [[I'm sorry, I'll ask for a vote, yes.]] Thank you very much. 8th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Labour Party and Solidarity and Independent Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206964	The amendment is not accepted. The draft law establishes a new institute introducing a basic level of social security and the amount is determined in accordance with economic opportunities.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206965	There's no club representative, so we'll vote on him. Ninth Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Labour Party and Solidarity and Independent Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206966	The amendment is not accepted. Bank payments are proposed for a more technologically secure way of paying off cash and no significant costs may be disregarded which would additionally burden the state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206967	There is no representative of the club so we will vote on this, the 10th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Labour Party and Solidarity and Independent Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206968	The amendment is not accepted. The possibility of disbursement through the proxies is proposed to enable people who themselves are not able to directly use bank services, for example because of the isolation of the area, to pay out through a person of confidence chosen by them or by authority.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206969	The president says there is no representative, so we will vote on it, 11 amendments to the Club of Representatives of HSU, SNAGA and independent MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206970	The amendment is not accepted. If the exercise of a right depends on meeting certain conditions, the facts that prove it can be decisive and decisive, namely the synonyms and both statements in practice are used in accordance with the legal terminology used in the Croatian legal system.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206971	In the name of the club, the esteemed representative of the Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206972	I'm sorry but the fact that the facts are determined is a personification. So you give things a human dimension, a human face. Therefore, I have not yet seen the installation of a personification in our Croatian legislation, but since you reject all amendments in order and this is approximately certainly a tipfeller because someone should have said either the decisive facts or the necessary facts or the necessary arguments to decide, I am sorry, that is your attitude towards the amendments of the opposition, I think it is a very wrong attitude because we are not here to mock you, the mistakes possible, we are here with full awareness of that salary we receive, this job we do. Therefore, I am sorry for your incomprehension, our measures are exclusively in terms of improving and expressing and the content of the law, and I will request a vote for this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206973	Thank you. Amendment 12 to the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206974	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206975	Thank you. We ended this law, it becomes an amendment, of course, an integral part of the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206976	Final proposal of the Law on National Compensation for Elderly Persons, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 947. The Proposer is the Government. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives, MP Miranda Mrsic, the Party of Labour and Solidarity Club and Independent Representatives, MP Željko Lacković, advocate Maras, SDSS Representatives' Club, HSU's Club of Representatives, SNAGAs and Independent Representatives. The review of the amendments has been sent to you by electronic means, so before the vote we will hear from our colleague, Hrelja, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206977	Your Honor, Mr. President, I'm looking for a break in front of the HSU Club, independent MPs and the SNAG because of this law we're about to vote on. Namely, I recommend that all representatives of the Croatian Parliament support the amendments of HSU because the law is in this form inconclusive. In fact, the law requires those with a small family pension based on contributions payments to either agricultural or craft pensions to give up that pension in order to receive national compensation. No one in the Republic of Croatia can give up their pension by their will, only by new employment or death. Therefore, the law is inconclusive, so I ask you to support these two amendments, which ensure that the Institute of National Age Charges can be applied. The second president is also related to point 22 of the Law, our Law on Voluntary Health Insurance, where we are looking for an increase in censorship from 1.516 to 1.830 per member of the family, i.e. from $1.939 to 2.340, we believe that this law, which 58 representatives of the Croatian Parliament signed support for, among them and 14 in the ruling majority, representatives of minorities and many others are free to vote for the law because it is good and what the Government has declared to do in increasing the state budget satisfys and the amounts of censorship. It's about the amount of censorship of 47 and 61 kuna what the government has brought requires much, much less money. Therefore, you can freely vote for this bill of law for that money in those frameworks has quite Enough. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206978	Can we get back to work now?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206979	You got it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206980	Then we're going to vote on the amendments. The first Legislative Committee has been adopted, so it becomes an integral part of the law. The second Club of Representatives of the SDSS, not accepted, the government does not accept it, so we must vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I'm saying he didn't get the votes he needed. We're going to Amendment 3. The club of representatives of the Labour Party and solidarity and independent representatives, the government does not accept and we must vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment number four of MPs by Željko Lackovic, the government does not accept, so we must vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that the amendment has not received the required number of votes, 6 for, 75 against. The 6th Amendment of Representative Miranda Mrsic, the government does not accept, we must vote. Who's in? And I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We're going to the 5th Amendment of Representative Maras, the government doesn't accept, so we're going to vote on him. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. The 6th Amendment of Representative Miranda Mrsic, the government does not accept, we must vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. We're going to the 7th. The club of HSU, SNAG and independent representatives, the government does not accept it, so we must vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. We're going to Amendment number eight. The club of Labour Party Representatives and Solidarity and Independent Representatives, the government does not accept it, we must vote. Who's in? I see you didn't get the required number of votes so we can go to Amendment 9. Yeah, yeah, okay. Has everyone voted? So please don't all vote, so we're missing the quorum at this point in time for this decision. I ask you colleagues and colleagues to vote again in the halls here to vote who should vote, and in the halls to vote by hand. So the amendment didn't get the required number of votes, 6 was for, 73 against. We are going to Amendment No. 10 of the Labour Party Representatives' Club and Solidarity and Independent Representatives' Club, the government does not accept. Let's vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. We are going to the amendment of the club of representatives of HSU-SNAGA-independent representatives, the government is not accepting it, so we must vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. We're going to the last 12. The Legislative Committee has been adopted and becomes an integral part of the law. I am now voting on the final proposal of the National Compensation Act for the Elderly. Please, let's vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? I'd like some results. So most of the votes 115 for, 2 abstentions and 1 against was passed the National Compensation Act for the Elderly.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206981	As decided this morning, we are now moving to a united debate on two agenda points. So that's: - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Insurance Act, second reading, P.Z. No. 851 and - Final draft law implementing Regulation 2017/2402 laying down a general framework for securitisation and establishing a specific framework for simple, transparent and standardised securitisation, second reading, P.Z. No. 857. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia 172. which is related to Art. 190. Rules of Procedure on the work of HS. On the occasion of the debate on these items of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to, please, the second reading of the law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. We have Mr Stipe Zupan, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, who will give an opening statement on behalf of the motionor. Here you go, Mr. Mayor.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206982	Thank you, well-respected Vice President HS, respected MPs and MPs. As you have said, today is the final draft law amending and supplementing the Insurance Act, which has been developed with the aim of further harmonising Croatia's legal framework with EU rules in this area. As we said in our first reading, the bill among other things brings the following news. First of all, it is in line with the Solvency 2 Directive in order to fulfil the obligation to transpose the Directive in a consistent manner. The proposed law also amends provisions relating to the calculation of the minimum necessary capital and the conditions to be met by insurance companies in order to qualify as small companies. Furthermore, the draft law provides for the obligation to take out prior authorisation from HANFA to perform its duties as members of the Supervisory Board, as well as the conditions, suspension and withdrawal of authorisation for the performance of the same function. It is also possible for Leasing companies to carry out insurance distribution operations on behalf of one or more insurance companies or by order of the party. The differences between the first reading or the bill proposal and the final bill are the following. Amendments to the provisions of the laws containing the prescribed time limits in which supervisory entities are obliged to submit prescribed reports to the supervisory authority are proposed. The amendments are proposed to allow the deadlines to change in the event of special circumstances as they are now due to the occurrence of COVID-19 disease and all in order to facilitate the operation of surveillance entities under special circumstances. It is also nomotechnically completed and uniformly expressed provisions according to the comments of the HS Legislative Committee. Furthermore, an amendment to Art. 42. The HS Legislative Committee. The entry into force of this law is proposed on the eighth day of its publication in the National Journal. The second draft law, as you said, concerns the implementation of Regulation 2402 of 2017 laying down a general securitisation framework and establishing a specific framework for simple, transparent and standardised securitisation. First of all, I'd like to present some basic information on securitisations. It is therefore the process of converting non-transportable forms of claim, for example, credit into transferable instruments. securities. There was no specific legal framework for securitisations in the Republic of Croatia so far. The differences between the solutions proposed by the final draft law in relation to the solutions set out in the first reading bill have therefore been made in relation to the first reading resulting from the adoption of the observations and the proposal of the Committee on Law, as well as the amendments and additions made by the applicants in order to make the application of certain provisions more clear. Comments on the definition of securitisation have also been accepted in a way that is in Article. 3. adds the term ‘securitisation’ which, in the meaning of this Act, means a transaction or reshaping scheme in which the credit risk associated with the exposure or exposure set, is transited and has all the characteristics referred to in Article 3. 2nd century. 1st century. Regulation (EU) No 515/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 December 2013 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 2111/2005 (OJ L 348, 30.12.2013, p. 1). 2402. It is proposed that the law enter into force on the eighth day of its publication in the National Journal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206983	Thank you. We have one replica, Comrade Bull, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206984	Thank you very much. Secretary, how was the problem with the earthquake insurance, as it was in Zagreb, when the roof on the car was set, the car was secured, who will solve these people who are not to blame for their problem and financial damage? This is what citizens ask because in most cases in Zagreb we do not pay it. Have you found that solution and whether it has an obligation for the insurance company to pay for it or whether it will be resolved by the state or by banks in the Republic of Croatia and insurance companies that will not bear any costs? They won't touch them in the event of this crown crisis, and they'll touch everyone but them? Here, how did you solve this problem? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206985	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206986	Thank you very much. Your Honor, therefore, it is not the same subject of these amendments to the law on amendments and additions to the Insurance Act. Of course, the solution to such problems is found in the fact that individuals or not have secured their assets from the earthquake. Next, if they have secured, and the same covers the insurance policy, the same will be paid by the insurance company.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206987	Thank you. Would the committee's rapporteurs like to take the floor, colleague Jelkovac and colleague Peric? If not, I'm opening a debate. The first registered on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club is counterpart Boris Lalovac. Here's a colleague of Lalovac's.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206988	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State with an associate. Today, we have a united discussion of two laws that are, in fact, the most important part, alignment with the directives. In my first reading, I don't think there's been any more significant remarks than any of the representatives' clubs, so I won't be too much of a discussion. I'm just gonna give maybe some accent, what my colleague Bulj asked, I think it's a question of life. I know that this may not be the solution in this part of this directive, this law, but it has actually shown itself now, at least some of the life issues that are happening to us all of a sudden, and here, as my colleague Bulj said, it's been a long, long time earthquake that hasn't happened to us, and I think it's the same kind of questions that will show in the future when such a certain accident happens, which then insurance covers, or doesn't cover. So we here today adopt a number of directives, however, certainly that in the future we should lead on such life issues and the question is whether what we have heard here today, whether the cache covers it or not. There are different interpretations of the insurance company, so I think it's a good question that fellow Bull asked. So, about this Solvency II Directive, what's significant here, and that's actually introductory and noted is actually that they are, adding a new article. 13 which is actually an art. Article 102 amends Article 2 relating to the submission of a report by the insurance company to the Agency, means the HANFAs and the deadlines set by the Agency in more detail by the Regulation, have been amended to allow the deadlines to be amended in the event of an occurrence, meaning the existing specific circumstances. And it's added, too, to the new article. 30 to which it shall apply. The Agency shall, after point 3, add a point 4 laying down that the Agency shall, by means of a regulation, set deadlines for the delivery of annual financial reports for the insurance company, i.e. the brokerage company, insurance and reinsurance companies, and statistical reports for secondary insurance agents, insurance representatives and insurance representation companies. What is certainly stated here, and this is also the introduction, means by the final proposal of the law, the insurance intermediary club has been expanded so that the teaching companies are given the possibility to carry out insurance distribution operations. Even though it is not defined here for leasing, it must be noted, and it seems to me that this is also a fellow Shucker, when we proposed that moratorium law, that this actually happened to us between these two readings one big protest of carriers, happened... just about the Leasings, for the buses means people whose basic means of work, and on the one hand we have restrictions that are related to COVID, and on the other hand we have a very, very complicated situation where the state actually prescribed that someone would behave for COVID, and on the other hand these people and those lines that will be connected to their transport are inert because no bus can drive 10, 20 people from Zagreb-Split. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So it's a serious problem that's going to come before us, certainly not now, but I believe, very soon when a new Parliament is formed, I think that such a bill will have to be resolved and we know that these carriers, too, know that they are driving children. That they just don't have any more transportation for kids for school, all those county lines that will also, as it will work, and they all actually have a basic means, it's this Leasing bus that they've got to get to Leasing and they have to pay the Leasing Wars now, and they just don't, they can't drive, if they can drive a few people, etc., so I'm sure about insurance, but finally for Leasing Society, it seems to me that we're going to have to have some kind of solution in the next session, when it wasn't already going to discuss this, is it? In fact, these citizens themselves, entrepreneurs, have shown that simply their way of doing business in the future, that is, already now that it is very endangered and that we need to find some legal solutions there. The second law is actually about the directive, and most often, when we mention this securitisation process is the process of converting into intolerable forms of demand so-called. credits in transferable instruments, i.e. securities. This is the last time we said it was good to pass a law like this, a directive that now regulates the securitisation market that we know and we know for ourselves that this market caused a major financial crisis in 2008 and this is good for Croatia to implement one of these directives, because it protects in fact the Croatian financial market, protects investors, protects in fact a whole system of financial industries that was not regulated but has been left to the market that they can actually form and resell various so-called products. These securities packages, and we are very well aware that such repacked securities were then, in 2008, that Triple A, the best rating of these financial rating agencies, then later failed, we simply didn't have a regulated simple market like that. I think that's good, and I think for the last time and I was saying that by regulating this kind of business, the securitisation market has fallen rapidly in Europe, or because it's being put into order. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. And this is where our institutional investors in the Republic of Croatia are provided. So it's primarily about pension funds and pension insurance companies for their systemic importance, in investment in such securitisations, that's good. It's commendable and good and I think it's a good thing that we accepted in that part that they can then, because we know that pension funds have our pensions and that in that part, no matter what forms of securitisation they can appear in a year, two, three, etc. And not only on our market, but on a liberalised European market, it is important that we have a regulated area, as we know it all is good while it is going well, as you market well, but once it starts to collapse, they collapse like pyramids, and in this context we support these amendments to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206989	We continue the debate on behalf of the clubs, the next colleague of Hrvoje Zekanovic is in front of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns. There is no colleague of Zekanovic, in accordance with Article. 233. loses the right to discuss these two points of the agenda. After him is the application from colleagues Ivan Lovrinović, the club of representatives of the Living Wall and Let's change Croatia, please welcome colleague Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206990	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens. I'm talking today, and I'm going to talk about a proposal for the Securitisation Act. That's one word known to a small number of citizens because that's the English they'd say. We could say in the Croatian word that it is a post-papering or selling of one form of property and turning it into another form of property. In this case I will, on a practical, concrete example, not only explain what it is, but in front of the Party We change Croatia our experts have proposed how to save the blocked citizens, the overindebted citizens in the following way. So I cite an example of securitisation that can save about 230 000 blocked citizens who are overindebted. The banks sold their so-called so-called banks. non-refundable claims to debt-making agencies for about 10 billion kuna. These agencies are harassing our citizens, harassing us, people don't know what to do. The solution is next. This is, I'm saying, just talking about solutions. We're in a big crisis, it's time for and this crisis is suitable for big solutions. The state now needs to buy from these debt-depositing agencies for 10 billion all claims that these agencies bought from banks at that, at a slightly lower price, that they earn something, too, to get rid of them. How will the state buy these, these claims when there are no 10 billion kunas? Well, he's just gonna take a loan from the CNB. If the average maturity is 10 years. All credits to the citizens, she will broadcast that bond with a maturity of 10 years. 10 billion kuna. Who's gonna buy those bonds? Whoever it is. Citizens who have extra money, businesses, banks, institutional investors, foreigners, whoever they want, offer them an acceptable contribution that is certainly greater than the contributions they have now and will be dealt with. What are the fellow citizens, you who are blocked, what is the concrete result of this operation? So, here you'll stay now that the state sells the bond, and for her, her interest can be done by HPB or HABOR or any domestic institution she creates, you'll be in debt to that state body of the institution, no longer to the debt enforcement agencies. And dear citizens, we'll get rid of those agencies, they'll disappear and never exist in the Republic of Croatia again. They will no longer trade the torment of men to disturb you. Because if banks couldn't collect debts that couldn't be charged, and banks like that were still operating on some regulations, and how would the debt-deposit agencies be able to collect? Unless he's harassing you, if he takes away your real estate, he'll do it, etc. So, that won't happen anymore. What will be the end of your debt that you should repay within that time limit? If he, for example, is worth a million kunas, say today, and let's say that this operation is done today, you won't have to go back to, over the course of 10 years. A million kunas than a maximum of 400,000,00 kn. Why? Because debt enforcement agencies bought your debts with a huge discount, and now you're gonna be able to buy your debts out of the state on your own with that same discount. So it's not going to be another million kuna, it's going to cost $400,000.00. Dear citizens, it sounds incredible to you, it sounds amazing to you, but it's a solution to the profession. Why didn't the others bring it out here? Well, because they're not protecting your interest, they're protecting the Agency's interest in making debts, banks, CNBs the way they are, and that's it. So when the waist talks, you see, I've already brought it out here, there's been no objections here, I haven't heard from HDZ, SDP, especially SDP, he's been promoted as a social democratically sensitive party, so they've destroyed the pensioners, the workers, they've opened up that, that phenomenon of professional training, they've brought to the market work on a specific that lasts indefinitely, so you can do, until retirement work on a certain. They've introduced too much, there's no social sensitivity and solidarity in the SDP. So my standards are the same for each other. Both parties have brought disaster to the Croatian people and the Croatian state over the past period. It's up to you respected citizens, meaning a real model, a clear, scientifically well-founded, feasible model. This kind of securitisation, this is called securitisation, so it's turning your debt or claim, in this case the bank or agency turns into a government bond, that bond is being bought by investors, you're now paying further to the government that will be in charge, but you're not going to return 100% but 40%, and that's how it works from America, Australia, Switzerland, that's securitisation. But they didn't explain it to you because it's not in their best interest. They still want to put in pockets that are already packed, you know. And I hear here from the bench, some of these you know big parties throw something at me, come here, and we'll professionally talk about explaining ourselves here, right? Therefore, you are strong in language, but in practice and knowledge you are weak. This time only requires a profession. Let's go further, the financial system in Croatia is the cause of many instability, it is the cause of blockades, accidents of many citizens, interest, execution, the collapse of many businesses. I filed three criminal charges, one against the CNB because it allowed the Franak case, the other against HANFA, the Croatian Financial Institutions Supervisory Agency because it allowed the exchanges to be traded without cover from Agrokor concerts, and they knew that these bonds had no coverage. And I filed a third criminal complaint with the DORH against Raiffeisen Bank because she sought public ads from the PR agencies to help her carry out and put pressure on judges and courts so that they wouldn't get hurt in the event of a verdict about Frank at their expense. You see, DORH didn't send me a notice at all about what stage that criminal application was in. What do we see? We have a judicial system that legalizes, confirms, it protects what is done. But now I'm bringing you something new. You see the last criminal report was against Raiffeisen Bank, but what happened? During this crown crisis under the radar, a completely undetected one other thing was that another company from Raiffeisen Group that Raiffeisen licking in Croatia from 2008 to 2013 changed the fixed interest rate to its clients, so people who took licking for various equipment, vehicles, etc., were unilaterally changing interest rates. They didn't inform their clients at all, and they did it for five years, they did it for five years. And you know what HANFA wrote to them, she's like a child, you threaten her a little bit with your finger and say, "Don't do it anymore." You know how many of our entrepreneurs today who bought kobes buses, buses, trucks, means the means they work with to drive a taxi, etc., these are the people who can't bring back the licking wars today, and they've been counting interest rates illegally, and they haven't explained, at the time of the interest, so they've been doing what they want. So, Raiffeisen Bank, Raiffeisen Lizing, Raiffeisen factoring but other banks did so. So I need to give you another example to show that Croatia is simple, that its financial system is not in the service of the development of the economy and the well-being of citizens, but of creating trouble, destruction and destruction. The party Change Croatia will do everything after these elections to increase the share of domestic banks above 50%, it is now 8%, we will introduce a tax on bank assets, the debt enforcement agencies will disappear and there will be order in this country on the financial market, the one who respects the Croatian state will be able to pay taxes, and otherwise we will show them the door across the border. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206991	Thank you. We continue to debate on behalf of representatives' clubs, next is counterpart Miro Bulj, club of representatives of the Most Independent Lists. Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206992	Dear Prime Minister, the Honorable Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. I asked through the replica one question because simply we, who make laws, are the only ones who, as we always say, prescribe regulations, directives, harmonize with European legislation, and basically what is real and what is life, which we do not have a solution for that. That's why my question with vehicle insurance. Mostly vehicles, I was interested in that because I talked to people that one of the issues that can actually be discussed through this law should be talked about whether it's a life problem. A man if a chimney fell on the streets of the City of Zagreb during the earthquake he cannot collect his damage at this time, and he is not responsible for the earthquake, who is not the wrong caterer for not doing his cafe because of the crown crisis or similar situations, but this is about the earthquake, the consequences of the earthquake. When we talk about insurance to me, you're all here in front of the Ministry of Finance of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, as possible, that's what I was saying to the Minister of Transport to secure the vehicles. The buses carrying the kids, and in my Sinj, they burn two of them a month. And someone has secured, they have age I don't know means vehicles that aren't safe, so insurance in the Republic behaves as they wish. They so favor carriers that old buses that are up, which are dangerous to provide insurance because they are the same owner of Prometheus which is in Sinj in his area he has insurance which he also made in a space that is not intended for insurance i.e. The technical examinations are insurance houses, so that the whole process acts compromised, and to the most sensitive, which is to our children. While at the same time this government has passed a law that a taxi cannot be more than five years old to be eligible, of five years of taxi, means we're talking about vehicles, so that it please the Ubers, I don't know who everyone, who doesn't even pay for the full amount and obligations of the Republic of Croatia care where the applications we call a taxi, and here the buses, our bunch of us are looking at how they're going to burn down di have insurance. So a number of life issues are being asked, I'm talking about rural areas, here in the Cetina area in a month have burned down 4.5 buses with children, so school kids who are the most sensitive. Only by the skill of our drivers have saved them, which is why the buses are old and can't be meant to be. So this isn't just a question that we're copying, this is a question of life. And indeed citizens, especially the parents of these students, ask the question, how is it possible to provide that vehicle carrying school children, and it is old and wrong because in this transport company, here I mention again Promet Sinj, former Transport Makarska, i.e. Sister's company Transport Makarska, how can this be secured? Easy, I'm doing a technical checkup, his vehicle and that's it. So we're bringing in, I'm talking about living situations, I know that you in the financial aspect of the word we're doing this with EU legislation through regulations, the directives we're harmonising, but life problems make us look a little wider in the context of everyday events and dangers. Because of course it is a danger for our citizens to be afraid to send their children to school on buses and to pray to God for them to return alive. Not for a reason, man always has dangers in the traffic, but because of the frequent malfunctions of the bus carrying. I asked these two questions, first I put it in the replica, you say it doesn't apply to the Insurance Act in this part, I think the Ministry should think about it because simply these citizens are not responsible for the damage caused in the earthquake and that it needs to find a way to legally implement the insurance. And also that the state finds some sort of solution for our citizens who have suffered damage in the case, I... I am a Zagreb earthquake, but also a number of other damages that are, but Zagreb has now opened our eyes as time goes by these people will not achieve their right. Your compensation, no matter what you say, we don't know if an earthquake insurance, I don't know at all. But we need to think that way. This is also the case at home in the city centres, there should be something in particular in these thorny areas such as Zagreb, which is subject to earthquakes, but also in many other places it should be considered from the legislative side to regulate and apply the real situation. As far as securitisation is concerned, I'm not going to talk about it much, I'm just going to say it briefly, I'm not going to talk about the credentials, I'm not going to talk about the action and the reduction of those values, the trading or the way they work. I can only say that this government, the distinguished representative of the government, the tribunal brings the first measure, the first measure of the crown of the crisis, however it is not. Now the whole process has been politicised, even the Civil Protection Headquarters has been politicized, and it has been turned a little bit into the pre-election headquarters of the HDZ. Is it possible that we can go, I ask you, how is it possible that we punish people who have lorries that can't drive, drive, transport and operate, and at the same time send a message that those who are in isolation, and even those who have been gnawing their fields, threw... in the field they got a fine of 8000 kunas, were declared bioterrorists, literally murderers while all kept social distances. At the same time, those who can't do the licking that they have, means that they can't function on their working means at the same time say what they are in isolation during the elections can get a mask, they can get a mask and go to elections. So we're jeopardizing the people who are and the means of work have to lick that I can't work on the bus, I see that fellow climate is probably saying that this is off topic. Yes, it's off topic, but the station that has a reputation doesn't protect people who have licking and who can't transport people because of self-insulation, can't function and work with that means of transport, while at the same time inviting people who are in isolation to go out with a mask to the elections. Take the pen, vote there, vote the election board picks up. That's the reality of my colleague Kleman, it's reality, it's a compromise of a single body that should be a professional body, which deals with a health epidemic from the coronary virus. And that's a huge problem because the system's jammed, the problem is the earthquake and the insurance, it's all the trouble that I have the right as a council representative to point out if I went past the building where the man's chimney fell on the car, and he's not the one who did the earthquake. At the same time, he would still point out as this crisis takes place, the only government representatives when we talk about securitisation is a colleague before me and mentioned debt seekers legalised, they earn, they're banks is the first measure to be taken, and it's not adopted that's a moratorium on interest loans. But we can't move in them, we can't have insurance houses this time I'm not going to mention it, we shouldn't mention it, but when the insurance law for these damages came to those parts of their people or to help those people, they have a huge profit, or banks that make billions of dollars, or law-abiding debts to our citizens. So let's look at reality and do law for man, not for interest groups. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206993	We're continuing the debate on behalf of the MPs' club. The debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club will be shared by colleagues Kliman and Shuker, first colleague Antun Kleman, please welcome colleague Kliman.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206994	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, I welcome you all as well as the representatives of the Ministry of Finance. I'm just going to take a quick look at this law, and we call it securitization. So the HDZ Club will support this bill. This is also, as usual, one of, therefore, the application of EU regulations to our legislation and I again hold, given that I was, on several occasions, a rapporteur on behalf of the club, that these regulations should indeed be dealt with in an urgent procedure because they are, they must be applied simply. Here, we had comments from the Legislative Committee, it can all be solved in one, in one blow, so in 2 readings I think it is really unnecessary when, when we are members, when we are members of the EU, I think we should really be practical and do that, and apply it in an emergency procedure. This is a very important law and I think it is necessary to say that here we are entering a circle of countries where we will in some way reduce risks, systemic risks in the financial sector, so that we do not experience a major economic crisis and financial crisis in the first row of 2008. If there was such a law on the world level, they wouldn't have had such a big crisis in the EU as we had in 2008. Because this law really prescribes all steps to reduce the crisis in, therefore, the cashing of credit, so credit obligations with banks, the release of bank balances so that banks can continue to be in debt and business, and so that financial institutions can be involved in, in this whole, in the whole business. The whole series, so the solutions are through, through this law listed and I think that this law will in any case encourage the more transparent business of banks, credit buyers, to sell financial instruments further. Here, we also heard in this debate that was in the first reading, very fruitful, we had several very good discussions, that in the very introduction of this law in 2017. in the EU, they fell terribly, investments fell in, into these securities. Why? Because it was very standard for only trading in securities and thus speculation was reduced. So, those who wanted to hunt in the dim no longer, were no longer the ones who wanted to get into the normised business and simply as such fell and, and the trade of these papers fell, but also the state institutions and pension funds were involved in itself, in this trade itself, and therefore the whole story was brought into a single row. Since it was a very good debate in the first reading, here I would not have been much longer, nor would this longer, to leave my colleague Shuker further related to the insurance companies. I will repeat once again that HDZ will support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206995	Thank you. Just a second, Comrade Shucker, please, miss. Here's your colleague Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206996	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President HS, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. Well, a technical law and saying something about this law would actually be repeating what the ministry representative said and what some colleagues said. However, some things should be said to remain recorded. First of all, in this law in the first reading we discussed on 12.3., it was a week before the earthquake in the City of Zagreb and it was practically a week before the introduction of these epidemiological measures when practically the whole of the Republic of Croatia stopped, then all the representatives of the clubs had the opportunity to warn what could possibly happen since some countries in our environment were already in deep isolation, as this financial sector of the Republic of Croatia is very important, and this is part of the non-banking financial sector of the insurance society. In fact, it was only the HDZ Club and something was said by a colleague named Lalovac at the SDP Club. So when something had to be said in advance, when it had to be warned of certain things then there was no. In these past two days, however, we have been aware of the fearsome ex-post senses of finance in this assembly. So, we spent about 40% more of the state budget yesterday and today and we spent one already once and a half times the CNB foreign reserve because it's a magic wand that can solve all the problems in the Republic of Croatia. Another thing I'm trying to say is, when you look at the structure of the insurance company's ownership, then you'll see that these are all private-owned societies. Now, when everyone's saying that private property is flexible, that private people agree, I honestly expected that this relationship between all Croatian banks and Leasing societies, and especially insurance companies, will be much more flexible and that they will react to certain things that have been hit by Croatian businessmen and Croatian citizens regardless of what it says in the law, regardless of what someone didn't say and it's logical if one car carrier doesn't use buses for two months, there's no risk of harm, so it would be both business and human and logical that someone said, and nothing has any special wisdom, let's extend the policy for those two months. And then we would clearly send a message to everyone that we are very aware of this situation and that we want each other's help. Another thing, some who offer rescue solutions would be very interesting to see if their insurance policy for cars and Casco insurance contains these provisions that they talk about because if you think something should be inside then the logical thing is that you won't sign that insurance contract because it doesn't protect you. But we also have to be aware of the fact that we're exercising the rights based on what we signed, and that's simply the facts we have to say. However, what I want here to say is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Ministry of Finance can say is that at this moment it makes maximum use of the full potential of the Republic of Croatia, the full financial potential of the Republic of Croatia on the one hand to respond and help the Croatian economy, to preserve jobs, to take certain social measures to facilitate the life of Croatian citizens and Croatian businessmen in these difficult moments, and that should be said when speaking here because why I mentioned this 12.3. and then there should be stories like this, it should be like this. And what happened? At the moment the virtual economy was blocked because of the epidemic, the government of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Finance reacted. We said it here on 12.3. that at the moment when it is necessary to react that the Ministry of Finance, based on its knowledge, will react based on its experience. Is that what happened? It happened. Did Croatian entrepreneurs get that salary of 3,250 kuna and before they hoped and perhaps there were some mistakes and failures, but we are from HDZ that the Prime Minister and Minister of Finance therefore warned us from the HDZ club all the time when the measures taken were mutually responsible. One side is the responsibility of those who give the means and on the other hand the responsibility of those who receive the funds because that is the only way we can be effective. So when we talk to this insurance company about their assets, it's not negligible at all, it's $42 billion. Their grossly charged premium is more than 10 billion kuna and it is for one Croatia and for that segment that they cover exceptional potential. How they will react or how they should react in the event of an earthquake in the City of Zagreb, it depends on who has the policy, and they could simply react in some situations and probably have helped Croatian citizens. So all of these changes that we are harmonising with EU directives are changes that are not a lot tangling Croatian citizens themselves, but changes that regulate the global functioning of this market for insurance companies. But I repeat, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has reacted under these conditions, those who could not accept it because in time they had not responded in these past days spent half of the Croatian budget and twice spent the CNB foreign reserves to solve all these problems. Therefore, the HDZ Club will... this Insurance Act and what my colleague Lalovac said and last time we agreed about licking companies, I think they had to react without anyone pushing them. Where it's obvious that what's on the lease isn't in operation, that it just automatically extends the deadline and I think that would make it easier for everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206997	Thank you, Comrade Shuker. And the last debate I believe today about this point, since individual debates have disappeared... No, it's not, it's not. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Dear representative, ten minutes as well as anyone, colleague Stephen Curry in front of the Club of Representatives of the CNS.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206998	Thank you, Vice President. Then I'll be very brief. Dear representatives of the promoters, colleagues and colleagues. So, I don't think I'm repeating the HNS club will support these amendments to the law, first and foremost, the work of insurance companies, and as regards the necessary minimum calculation of the minimum capital, the conditions for companies to qualify as their own small companies. And what is more important is that they bring the risks involved, by equating the application of the insurance law and the Directive to replace Kunski amounts in euro, of course, by citing all the recalculations in the counter-value of the CNB mid-rate, etc., so some other bilateral agreements, and more or less all of the first reading which is acceptable and this difference and the new article that we added to the first reading, first of all, and the current situation, we absolutely welcome it. What I wanted to take advantage of was this opportunity to draw attention to one by one illogicality in determining premiums of car insurance specifically optional or to Kasko car insurance, namely the current insurance situation exists that they estimate the premium based on the purchase value of the vehicle. So a vehicle either 10 years old or 1 year premium is determined based on the purchase value of a vehicle that can be 200,000 kuna, for example. If the car is five years old, let's say it has an estimated value of 70. However, in the case of a policy activation, they do not count the price purchased but estimated. So if the total damage is estimated they pay you about 50,000 kuna, and you pay the insurance like for 200. So you pay the premium as a new car, so it's the same premium of a car one day and a car a thousand days old or five thousand days old if the premium is calculated based on the purchase value of a vehicle. The cost of repairing one, the cost of repairing another might be the same because parts are parts, they can still figure it out, but when it's estimated, and they have more or less when it's a little bit more damage then they usually estimate it on the total, so they give you the estimated value of the vehicle by some table, and then it's not the same, can it not be the same then? You pay like it's new, and then you judge me as new, but no. So basically this is the way to calculate and these tables are also the favorite of the insurance companies themselves. Not to talk about all those tensions that people are going through, confessing, is, isn't, how much, do repairs, so they give you something so you fix it yourself, or they pay you for repairs, and I say, the worst happens when you estimate total damage even if it can be fixed, but it always evaluates you, and of course nobody works on its own. And all right, I can understand it, and they have to live on something. Although they live well, by the way, to be clear. And they wouldn't live so well that more people don't pay more than they use it, but that's the meaning of insurance, evil shouldn't and that's a little more developed that culture today would have more secure people here, both from earthquakes and from other things, so we should also think about such a way. But this part is very illogical to me, and here I have to say, I don't know if we can legally intervene in it, but if you're looking at the estimated value, then you should look at it in one segment of the part and at the premiums themselves, because it's illogical that you're paying the same premium for a 10-year-old car and a car a year-old or a new cash car, if their purchase value was the same. So it doesn't make sense to me because it's not equally estimated their value in the event of total damage. Here, thank you. Once again, the HNS Club will accept this.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u206999	Thank you. Here, we've exhausted the debate with this. ... Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm concluding a debate on these two points, and we'll vote on them when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u207000	Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Insurance Act, second reading, P.Z. No. 851. The motion is Government, the debate is closed. During the debate, the proposer's representative accepted the amendment of the Legislative Committee and became an integral part of the final proposal of the Law. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Insurance Act. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? I find that most of the vote is 110 for, 1 abstentions to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Insurance Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u207001	As decided this morning, we are now moving to a united debate on two agenda points. So that's: - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Insurance Act, second reading, P.Z. No. 851 and - Final draft law implementing Regulation 2017/2402 laying down a general framework for securitisation and establishing a specific framework for simple, transparent and standardised securitisation, second reading, P.Z. No. 857. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia 172. which is related to Art. 190. Rules of Procedure on the work of HS. On the occasion of the debate on these items of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to, please, the second reading of the law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. We have Mr Stipe Zupan, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, who will give an opening statement on behalf of the motionor. Here you go, Mr. Mayor.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u207002	Thank you, well-respected Vice President HS, respected MPs and MPs. As you have said, today is the final draft law amending and supplementing the Insurance Act, which has been developed with the aim of further harmonising Croatia's legal framework with EU rules in this area. As we said in our first reading, the bill among other things brings the following news. First of all, it is in line with the Solvency 2 Directive in order to fulfil the obligation to transpose the Directive in a consistent manner. The proposed law also amends provisions relating to the calculation of the minimum necessary capital and the conditions to be met by insurance companies in order to qualify as small companies. Furthermore, the draft law provides for the obligation to take out prior authorisation from HANFA to perform its duties as members of the Supervisory Board, as well as the conditions, suspension and withdrawal of authorisation for the performance of the same function. It is also possible for Leasing companies to carry out insurance distribution operations on behalf of one or more insurance companies or by order of the party. The differences between the first reading or the bill proposal and the final bill are the following. Amendments to the provisions of the laws containing the prescribed time limits in which supervisory entities are obliged to submit prescribed reports to the supervisory authority are proposed. The amendments are proposed to allow the deadlines to change in the event of special circumstances as they are now due to the occurrence of COVID-19 disease and all in order to facilitate the operation of surveillance entities under special circumstances. It is also nomotechnically completed and uniformly expressed provisions according to the comments of the HS Legislative Committee. Furthermore, an amendment to Art. 42. The HS Legislative Committee. The entry into force of this law is proposed on the eighth day of its publication in the National Journal. The second draft law, as you said, concerns the implementation of Regulation 2402 of 2017 laying down a general securitisation framework and establishing a specific framework for simple, transparent and standardised securitisation. First of all, I'd like to present some basic information on securitisations. It is therefore the process of converting non-transportable forms of claim, for example, credit into transferable instruments. securities. There was no specific legal framework for securitisations in the Republic of Croatia so far. The differences between the solutions proposed by the final draft law in relation to the solutions set out in the first reading bill have therefore been made in relation to the first reading resulting from the adoption of the observations and the proposal of the Committee on Law, as well as the amendments and additions made by the applicants in order to make the application of certain provisions more clear. Comments on the definition of securitisation have also been accepted in a way that is in Article. 3. adds the term ‘securitisation’ which, in the meaning of this Act, means a transaction or reshaping scheme in which the credit risk associated with the exposure or exposure set, is transited and has all the characteristics referred to in Article 3. 2nd century. 1st century. Regulation (EU) No 515/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 December 2013 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 2111/2005 (OJ L 348, 30.12.2013, p. 1). 2402. It is proposed that the law enter into force on the eighth day of its publication in the National Journal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u207003	Thank you. We have one replica, Comrade Bull, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u207004	Thank you very much. Secretary, how was the problem with the earthquake insurance, as it was in Zagreb, when the roof on the car was set, the car was secured, who will solve these people who are not to blame for their problem and financial damage? This is what citizens ask because in most cases in Zagreb we do not pay it. Have you found that solution and whether it has an obligation for the insurance company to pay for it or whether it will be resolved by the state or by banks in the Republic of Croatia and insurance companies that will not bear any costs? They won't touch them in the event of this crown crisis, and they'll touch everyone but them? Here, how did you solve this problem? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u207005	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u207006	Thank you very much. Your Honor, therefore, it is not the same subject of these amendments to the law on amendments and additions to the Insurance Act. Of course, the solution to such problems is found in the fact that individuals or not have secured their assets from the earthquake. Next, if they have secured, and the same covers the insurance policy, the same will be paid by the insurance company.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u207007	Thank you. Would the committee's rapporteurs like to take the floor, colleague Jelkovac and colleague Peric? If not, I'm opening a debate. The first registered on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club is counterpart Boris Lalovac. Here's a colleague of Lalovac's.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u207008	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State with an associate. Today, we have a united discussion of two laws that are, in fact, the most important part, alignment with the directives. In my first reading, I don't think there's been any more significant remarks than any of the representatives' clubs, so I won't be too much of a discussion. I'm just gonna give maybe some accent, what my colleague Bulj asked, I think it's a question of life. I know that this may not be the solution in this part of this directive, this law, but it has actually shown itself now, at least some of the life issues that are happening to us all of a sudden, and here, as my colleague Bulj said, it's been a long, long time earthquake that hasn't happened to us, and I think it's the same kind of questions that will show in the future when such a certain accident happens, which then insurance covers, or doesn't cover. So we here today adopt a number of directives, however, certainly that in the future we should lead on such life issues and the question is whether what we have heard here today, whether the cache covers it or not. There are different interpretations of the insurance company, so I think it's a good question that fellow Bull asked. So, about this Solvency II Directive, what's significant here, and that's actually introductory and noted is actually that they are, adding a new article. 13 which is actually an art. Article 102 amends Article 2 relating to the submission of a report by the insurance company to the Agency, means the HANFAs and the deadlines set by the Agency in more detail by the Regulation, have been amended to allow the deadlines to be amended in the event of an occurrence, meaning the existing specific circumstances. And it's added, too, to the new article. 30 to which it shall apply. The Agency shall, after point 3, add a point 4 laying down that the Agency shall, by means of a regulation, set deadlines for the delivery of annual financial reports for the insurance company, i.e. the brokerage company, insurance and reinsurance companies, and statistical reports for secondary insurance agents, insurance representatives and insurance representation companies. What is certainly stated here, and this is also the introduction, means by the final proposal of the law, the insurance intermediary club has been expanded so that the teaching companies are given the possibility to carry out insurance distribution operations. Even though it is not defined here for leasing, it must be noted, and it seems to me that this is also a fellow Shucker, when we proposed that moratorium law, that this actually happened to us between these two readings one big protest of carriers, happened... just about the Leasings, for the buses means people whose basic means of work, and on the one hand we have restrictions that are related to COVID, and on the other hand we have a very, very complicated situation where the state actually prescribed that someone would behave for COVID, and on the other hand these people and those lines that will be connected to their transport are inert because no bus can drive 10, 20 people from Zagreb-Split. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So it's a serious problem that's going to come before us, certainly not now, but I believe, very soon when a new Parliament is formed, I think that such a bill will have to be resolved and we know that these carriers, too, know that they are driving children. That they just don't have any more transportation for kids for school, all those county lines that will also, as it will work, and they all actually have a basic means, it's this Leasing bus that they've got to get to Leasing and they have to pay the Leasing Wars now, and they just don't, they can't drive, if they can drive a few people, etc., so I'm sure about insurance, but finally for Leasing Society, it seems to me that we're going to have to have some kind of solution in the next session, when it wasn't already going to discuss this, is it? In fact, these citizens themselves, entrepreneurs, have shown that simply their way of doing business in the future, that is, already now that it is very endangered and that we need to find some legal solutions there. The second law is actually about the directive, and most often, when we mention this securitisation process is the process of converting into intolerable forms of demand so-called. credits in transferable instruments, i.e. securities. This is the last time we said it was good to pass a law like this, a directive that now regulates the securitisation market that we know and we know for ourselves that this market caused a major financial crisis in 2008 and this is good for Croatia to implement one of these directives, because it protects in fact the Croatian financial market, protects investors, protects in fact a whole system of financial industries that was not regulated but has been left to the market that they can actually form and resell various so-called products. These securities packages, and we are very well aware that such repacked securities were then, in 2008, that Triple A, the best rating of these financial rating agencies, then later failed, we simply didn't have a regulated simple market like that. I think that's good, and I think for the last time and I was saying that by regulating this kind of business, the securitisation market has fallen rapidly in Europe, or because it's being put into order. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. And this is where our institutional investors in the Republic of Croatia are provided. So it's primarily about pension funds and pension insurance companies for their systemic importance, in investment in such securitisations, that's good. It's commendable and good and I think it's a good thing that we accepted in that part that they can then, because we know that pension funds have our pensions and that in that part, no matter what forms of securitisation they can appear in a year, two, three, etc. And not only on our market, but on a liberalised European market, it is important that we have a regulated area, as we know it all is good while it is going well, as you market well, but once it starts to collapse, they collapse like pyramids, and in this context we support these amendments to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u207009	We continue the debate on behalf of the clubs, the next colleague of Hrvoje Zekanovic is in front of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns. There is no colleague of Zekanovic, in accordance with Article. 233. loses the right to discuss these two points of the agenda. After him is the application from colleagues Ivan Lovrinović, the club of representatives of the Living Wall and Let's change Croatia, please welcome colleague Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u207010	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens. I'm talking today, and I'm going to talk about a proposal for the Securitisation Act. That's one word known to a small number of citizens because that's the English they'd say. We could say in the Croatian word that it is a post-papering or selling of one form of property and turning it into another form of property. In this case I will, on a practical, concrete example, not only explain what it is, but in front of the Party We change Croatia our experts have proposed how to save the blocked citizens, the overindebted citizens in the following way. So I cite an example of securitisation that can save about 230 000 blocked citizens who are overindebted. The banks sold their so-called so-called banks. non-refundable claims to debt-making agencies for about 10 billion kuna. These agencies are harassing our citizens, harassing us, people don't know what to do. The solution is next. This is, I'm saying, just talking about solutions. We're in a big crisis, it's time for and this crisis is suitable for big solutions. The state now needs to buy from these debt-depositing agencies for 10 billion all claims that these agencies bought from banks at that, at a slightly lower price, that they earn something, too, to get rid of them. How will the state buy these, these claims when there are no 10 billion kunas? Well, he's just gonna take a loan from the CNB. If the average maturity is 10 years. All credits to the citizens, she will broadcast that bond with a maturity of 10 years. 10 billion kuna. Who's gonna buy those bonds? Whoever it is. Citizens who have extra money, businesses, banks, institutional investors, foreigners, whoever they want, offer them an acceptable contribution that is certainly greater than the contributions they have now and will be dealt with. What are the fellow citizens, you who are blocked, what is the concrete result of this operation? So, here you'll stay now that the state sells the bond, and for her, her interest can be done by HPB or HABOR or any domestic institution she creates, you'll be in debt to that state body of the institution, no longer to the debt enforcement agencies. And dear citizens, we'll get rid of those agencies, they'll disappear and never exist in the Republic of Croatia again. They will no longer trade the torment of men to disturb you. Because if banks couldn't collect debts that couldn't be charged, and banks like that were still operating on some regulations, and how would the debt-deposit agencies be able to collect? Unless he's harassing you, if he takes away your real estate, he'll do it, etc. So, that won't happen anymore. What will be the end of your debt that you should repay within that time limit? If he, for example, is worth a million kunas, say today, and let's say that this operation is done today, you won't have to go back to, over the course of 10 years. A million kunas than a maximum of 400,000,00 kn. Why? Because debt enforcement agencies bought your debts with a huge discount, and now you're gonna be able to buy your debts out of the state on your own with that same discount. So it's not going to be another million kuna, it's going to cost $400,000.00. Dear citizens, it sounds incredible to you, it sounds amazing to you, but it's a solution to the profession. Why didn't the others bring it out here? Well, because they're not protecting your interest, they're protecting the Agency's interest in making debts, banks, CNBs the way they are, and that's it. So when the waist talks, you see, I've already brought it out here, there's been no objections here, I haven't heard from HDZ, SDP, especially SDP, he's been promoted as a social democratically sensitive party, so they've destroyed the pensioners, the workers, they've opened up that, that phenomenon of professional training, they've brought to the market work on a specific that lasts indefinitely, so you can do, until retirement work on a certain. They've introduced too much, there's no social sensitivity and solidarity in the SDP. So my standards are the same for each other. Both parties have brought disaster to the Croatian people and the Croatian state over the past period. It's up to you respected citizens, meaning a real model, a clear, scientifically well-founded, feasible model. This kind of securitisation, this is called securitisation, so it's turning your debt or claim, in this case the bank or agency turns into a government bond, that bond is being bought by investors, you're now paying further to the government that will be in charge, but you're not going to return 100% but 40%, and that's how it works from America, Australia, Switzerland, that's securitisation. But they didn't explain it to you because it's not in their best interest. They still want to put in pockets that are already packed, you know. And I hear here from the bench, some of these you know big parties throw something at me, come here, and we'll professionally talk about explaining ourselves here, right? Therefore, you are strong in language, but in practice and knowledge you are weak. This time only requires a profession. Let's go further, the financial system in Croatia is the cause of many instability, it is the cause of blockades, accidents of many citizens, interest, execution, the collapse of many businesses. I filed three criminal charges, one against the CNB because it allowed the Franak case, the other against HANFA, the Croatian Financial Institutions Supervisory Agency because it allowed the exchanges to be traded without cover from Agrokor concerts, and they knew that these bonds had no coverage. And I filed a third criminal complaint with the DORH against Raiffeisen Bank because she sought public ads from the PR agencies to help her carry out and put pressure on judges and courts so that they wouldn't get hurt in the event of a verdict about Frank at their expense. You see, DORH didn't send me a notice at all about what stage that criminal application was in. What do we see? We have a judicial system that legalizes, confirms, it protects what is done. But now I'm bringing you something new. You see the last criminal report was against Raiffeisen Bank, but what happened? During this crown crisis under the radar, a completely undetected one other thing was that another company from Raiffeisen Group that Raiffeisen licking in Croatia from 2008 to 2013 changed the fixed interest rate to its clients, so people who took licking for various equipment, vehicles, etc., were unilaterally changing interest rates. They didn't inform their clients at all, and they did it for five years, they did it for five years. And you know what HANFA wrote to them, she's like a child, you threaten her a little bit with your finger and say, "Don't do it anymore." You know how many of our entrepreneurs today who bought kobes buses, buses, trucks, means the means they work with to drive a taxi, etc., these are the people who can't bring back the licking wars today, and they've been counting interest rates illegally, and they haven't explained, at the time of the interest, so they've been doing what they want. So, Raiffeisen Bank, Raiffeisen Lizing, Raiffeisen factoring but other banks did so. So I need to give you another example to show that Croatia is simple, that its financial system is not in the service of the development of the economy and the well-being of citizens, but of creating trouble, destruction and destruction. The party Change Croatia will do everything after these elections to increase the share of domestic banks above 50%, it is now 8%, we will introduce a tax on bank assets, the debt enforcement agencies will disappear and there will be order in this country on the financial market, the one who respects the Croatian state will be able to pay taxes, and otherwise we will show them the door across the border. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u207011	Thank you. We continue to debate on behalf of representatives' clubs, next is counterpart Miro Bulj, club of representatives of the Most Independent Lists. Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u207012	Dear Prime Minister, the Honorable Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. I asked through the replica one question because simply we, who make laws, are the only ones who, as we always say, prescribe regulations, directives, harmonize with European legislation, and basically what is real and what is life, which we do not have a solution for that. That's why my question with vehicle insurance. Mostly vehicles, I was interested in that because I talked to people that one of the issues that can actually be discussed through this law should be talked about whether it's a life problem. A man if a chimney fell on the streets of the City of Zagreb during the earthquake he cannot collect his damage at this time, and he is not responsible for the earthquake, who is not the wrong caterer for not doing his cafe because of the crown crisis or similar situations, but this is about the earthquake, the consequences of the earthquake. When we talk about insurance to me, you're all here in front of the Ministry of Finance of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, as possible, that's what I was saying to the Minister of Transport to secure the vehicles. The buses carrying the kids, and in my Sinj, they burn two of them a month. And someone has secured, they have age I don't know means vehicles that aren't safe, so insurance in the Republic behaves as they wish. They so favor carriers that old buses that are up, which are dangerous to provide insurance because they are the same owner of Prometheus which is in Sinj in his area he has insurance which he also made in a space that is not intended for insurance i.e. The technical examinations are insurance houses, so that the whole process acts compromised, and to the most sensitive, which is to our children. While at the same time this government has passed a law that a taxi cannot be more than five years old to be eligible, of five years of taxi, means we're talking about vehicles, so that it please the Ubers, I don't know who everyone, who doesn't even pay for the full amount and obligations of the Republic of Croatia care where the applications we call a taxi, and here the buses, our bunch of us are looking at how they're going to burn down di have insurance. So a number of life issues are being asked, I'm talking about rural areas, here in the Cetina area in a month have burned down 4.5 buses with children, so school kids who are the most sensitive. Only by the skill of our drivers have saved them, which is why the buses are old and can't be meant to be. So this isn't just a question that we're copying, this is a question of life. And indeed citizens, especially the parents of these students, ask the question, how is it possible to provide that vehicle carrying school children, and it is old and wrong because in this transport company, here I mention again Promet Sinj, former Transport Makarska, i.e. Sister's company Transport Makarska, how can this be secured? Easy, I'm doing a technical checkup, his vehicle and that's it. So we're bringing in, I'm talking about living situations, I know that you in the financial aspect of the word we're doing this with EU legislation through regulations, the directives we're harmonising, but life problems make us look a little wider in the context of everyday events and dangers. Because of course it is a danger for our citizens to be afraid to send their children to school on buses and to pray to God for them to return alive. Not for a reason, man always has dangers in the traffic, but because of the frequent malfunctions of the bus carrying. I asked these two questions, first I put it in the replica, you say it doesn't apply to the Insurance Act in this part, I think the Ministry should think about it because simply these citizens are not responsible for the damage caused in the earthquake and that it needs to find a way to legally implement the insurance. And also that the state finds some sort of solution for our citizens who have suffered damage in the case, I... I am a Zagreb earthquake, but also a number of other damages that are, but Zagreb has now opened our eyes as time goes by these people will not achieve their right. Your compensation, no matter what you say, we don't know if an earthquake insurance, I don't know at all. But we need to think that way. This is also the case at home in the city centres, there should be something in particular in these thorny areas such as Zagreb, which is subject to earthquakes, but also in many other places it should be considered from the legislative side to regulate and apply the real situation. As far as securitisation is concerned, I'm not going to talk about it much, I'm just going to say it briefly, I'm not going to talk about the credentials, I'm not going to talk about the action and the reduction of those values, the trading or the way they work. I can only say that this government, the distinguished representative of the government, the tribunal brings the first measure, the first measure of the crown of the crisis, however it is not. Now the whole process has been politicised, even the Civil Protection Headquarters has been politicized, and it has been turned a little bit into the pre-election headquarters of the HDZ. Is it possible that we can go, I ask you, how is it possible that we punish people who have lorries that can't drive, drive, transport and operate, and at the same time send a message that those who are in isolation, and even those who have been gnawing their fields, threw... in the field they got a fine of 8000 kunas, were declared bioterrorists, literally murderers while all kept social distances. At the same time, those who can't do the licking that they have, means that they can't function on their working means at the same time say what they are in isolation during the elections can get a mask, they can get a mask and go to elections. So we're jeopardizing the people who are and the means of work have to lick that I can't work on the bus, I see that fellow climate is probably saying that this is off topic. Yes, it's off topic, but the station that has a reputation doesn't protect people who have licking and who can't transport people because of self-insulation, can't function and work with that means of transport, while at the same time inviting people who are in isolation to go out with a mask to the elections. Take the pen, vote there, vote the election board picks up. That's the reality of my colleague Kleman, it's reality, it's a compromise of a single body that should be a professional body, which deals with a health epidemic from the coronary virus. And that's a huge problem because the system's jammed, the problem is the earthquake and the insurance, it's all the trouble that I have the right as a council representative to point out if I went past the building where the man's chimney fell on the car, and he's not the one who did the earthquake. At the same time, he would still point out as this crisis takes place, the only government representatives when we talk about securitisation is a colleague before me and mentioned debt seekers legalised, they earn, they're banks is the first measure to be taken, and it's not adopted that's a moratorium on interest loans. But we can't move in them, we can't have insurance houses this time I'm not going to mention it, we shouldn't mention it, but when the insurance law for these damages came to those parts of their people or to help those people, they have a huge profit, or banks that make billions of dollars, or law-abiding debts to our citizens. So let's look at reality and do law for man, not for interest groups. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u207013	We're continuing the debate on behalf of the MPs' club. The debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club will be shared by colleagues Kliman and Shuker, first colleague Antun Kleman, please welcome colleague Kliman.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u207014	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, I welcome you all as well as the representatives of the Ministry of Finance. I'm just going to take a quick look at this law, and we call it securitization. So the HDZ Club will support this bill. This is also, as usual, one of, therefore, the application of EU regulations to our legislation and I again hold, given that I was, on several occasions, a rapporteur on behalf of the club, that these regulations should indeed be dealt with in an urgent procedure because they are, they must be applied simply. Here, we had comments from the Legislative Committee, it can all be solved in one, in one blow, so in 2 readings I think it is really unnecessary when, when we are members, when we are members of the EU, I think we should really be practical and do that, and apply it in an emergency procedure. This is a very important law and I think it is necessary to say that here we are entering a circle of countries where we will in some way reduce risks, systemic risks in the financial sector, so that we do not experience a major economic crisis and financial crisis in the first row of 2008. If there was such a law on the world level, they wouldn't have had such a big crisis in the EU as we had in 2008. Because this law really prescribes all steps to reduce the crisis in, therefore, the cashing of credit, so credit obligations with banks, the release of bank balances so that banks can continue to be in debt and business, and so that financial institutions can be involved in, in this whole, in the whole business. The whole series, so the solutions are through, through this law listed and I think that this law will in any case encourage the more transparent business of banks, credit buyers, to sell financial instruments further. Here, we also heard in this debate that was in the first reading, very fruitful, we had several very good discussions, that in the very introduction of this law in 2017. in the EU, they fell terribly, investments fell in, into these securities. Why? Because it was very standard for only trading in securities and thus speculation was reduced. So, those who wanted to hunt in the dim no longer, were no longer the ones who wanted to get into the normised business and simply as such fell and, and the trade of these papers fell, but also the state institutions and pension funds were involved in itself, in this trade itself, and therefore the whole story was brought into a single row. Since it was a very good debate in the first reading, here I would not have been much longer, nor would this longer, to leave my colleague Shuker further related to the insurance companies. I will repeat once again that HDZ will support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u207015	Thank you. Just a second, Comrade Shucker, please, miss. Here's your colleague Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u207016	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President HS, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. Well, a technical law and saying something about this law would actually be repeating what the ministry representative said and what some colleagues said. However, some things should be said to remain recorded. First of all, in this law in the first reading we discussed on 12.3., it was a week before the earthquake in the City of Zagreb and it was practically a week before the introduction of these epidemiological measures when practically the whole of the Republic of Croatia stopped, then all the representatives of the clubs had the opportunity to warn what could possibly happen since some countries in our environment were already in deep isolation, as this financial sector of the Republic of Croatia is very important, and this is part of the non-banking financial sector of the insurance society. In fact, it was only the HDZ Club and something was said by a colleague named Lalovac at the SDP Club. So when something had to be said in advance, when it had to be warned of certain things then there was no. In these past two days, however, we have been aware of the fearsome ex-post senses of finance in this assembly. So, we spent about 40% more of the state budget yesterday and today and we spent one already once and a half times the CNB foreign reserve because it's a magic wand that can solve all the problems in the Republic of Croatia. Another thing I'm trying to say is, when you look at the structure of the insurance company's ownership, then you'll see that these are all private-owned societies. Now, when everyone's saying that private property is flexible, that private people agree, I honestly expected that this relationship between all Croatian banks and Leasing societies, and especially insurance companies, will be much more flexible and that they will react to certain things that have been hit by Croatian businessmen and Croatian citizens regardless of what it says in the law, regardless of what someone didn't say and it's logical if one car carrier doesn't use buses for two months, there's no risk of harm, so it would be both business and human and logical that someone said, and nothing has any special wisdom, let's extend the policy for those two months. And then we would clearly send a message to everyone that we are very aware of this situation and that we want each other's help. Another thing, some who offer rescue solutions would be very interesting to see if their insurance policy for cars and Casco insurance contains these provisions that they talk about because if you think something should be inside then the logical thing is that you won't sign that insurance contract because it doesn't protect you. But we also have to be aware of the fact that we're exercising the rights based on what we signed, and that's simply the facts we have to say. However, what I want here to say is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Ministry of Finance can say is that at this moment it makes maximum use of the full potential of the Republic of Croatia, the full financial potential of the Republic of Croatia on the one hand to respond and help the Croatian economy, to preserve jobs, to take certain social measures to facilitate the life of Croatian citizens and Croatian businessmen in these difficult moments, and that should be said when speaking here because why I mentioned this 12.3. and then there should be stories like this, it should be like this. And what happened? At the moment the virtual economy was blocked because of the epidemic, the government of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Finance reacted. We said it here on 12.3. that at the moment when it is necessary to react that the Ministry of Finance, based on its knowledge, will react based on its experience. Is that what happened? It happened. Did Croatian entrepreneurs get that salary of 3,250 kuna and before they hoped and perhaps there were some mistakes and failures, but we are from HDZ that the Prime Minister and Minister of Finance therefore warned us from the HDZ club all the time when the measures taken were mutually responsible. One side is the responsibility of those who give the means and on the other hand the responsibility of those who receive the funds because that is the only way we can be effective. So when we talk to this insurance company about their assets, it's not negligible at all, it's $42 billion. Their grossly charged premium is more than 10 billion kuna and it is for one Croatia and for that segment that they cover exceptional potential. How they will react or how they should react in the event of an earthquake in the City of Zagreb, it depends on who has the policy, and they could simply react in some situations and probably have helped Croatian citizens. So all of these changes that we are harmonising with EU directives are changes that are not a lot tangling Croatian citizens themselves, but changes that regulate the global functioning of this market for insurance companies. But I repeat, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has reacted under these conditions, those who could not accept it because in time they had not responded in these past days spent half of the Croatian budget and twice spent the CNB foreign reserves to solve all these problems. Therefore, the HDZ Club will... this Insurance Act and what my colleague Lalovac said and last time we agreed about licking companies, I think they had to react without anyone pushing them. Where it's obvious that what's on the lease isn't in operation, that it just automatically extends the deadline and I think that would make it easier for everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u207017	Thank you, Comrade Shuker. And the last debate I believe today about this point, since individual debates have disappeared... No, it's not, it's not. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Dear representative, ten minutes as well as anyone, colleague Stephen Curry in front of the Club of Representatives of the CNS.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u207018	Thank you, Vice President. Then I'll be very brief. Dear representatives of the promoters, colleagues and colleagues. So, I don't think I'm repeating the HNS club will support these amendments to the law, first and foremost, the work of insurance companies, and as regards the necessary minimum calculation of the minimum capital, the conditions for companies to qualify as their own small companies. And what is more important is that they bring the risks involved, by equating the application of the insurance law and the Directive to replace Kunski amounts in euro, of course, by citing all the recalculations in the counter-value of the CNB mid-rate, etc., so some other bilateral agreements, and more or less all of the first reading which is acceptable and this difference and the new article that we added to the first reading, first of all, and the current situation, we absolutely welcome it. What I wanted to take advantage of was this opportunity to draw attention to one by one illogicality in determining premiums of car insurance specifically optional or to Kasko car insurance, namely the current insurance situation exists that they estimate the premium based on the purchase value of the vehicle. So a vehicle either 10 years old or 1 year premium is determined based on the purchase value of a vehicle that can be 200,000 kuna, for example. If the car is five years old, let's say it has an estimated value of 70. However, in the case of a policy activation, they do not count the price purchased but estimated. So if the total damage is estimated they pay you about 50,000 kuna, and you pay the insurance like for 200. So you pay the premium as a new car, so it's the same premium of a car one day and a car a thousand days old or five thousand days old if the premium is calculated based on the purchase value of a vehicle. The cost of repairing one, the cost of repairing another might be the same because parts are parts, they can still figure it out, but when it's estimated, and they have more or less when it's a little bit more damage then they usually estimate it on the total, so they give you the estimated value of the vehicle by some table, and then it's not the same, can it not be the same then? You pay like it's new, and then you judge me as new, but no. So basically this is the way to calculate and these tables are also the favorite of the insurance companies themselves. Not to talk about all those tensions that people are going through, confessing, is, isn't, how much, do repairs, so they give you something so you fix it yourself, or they pay you for repairs, and I say, the worst happens when you estimate total damage even if it can be fixed, but it always evaluates you, and of course nobody works on its own. And all right, I can understand it, and they have to live on something. Although they live well, by the way, to be clear. And they wouldn't live so well that more people don't pay more than they use it, but that's the meaning of insurance, evil shouldn't and that's a little more developed that culture today would have more secure people here, both from earthquakes and from other things, so we should also think about such a way. But this part is very illogical to me, and here I have to say, I don't know if we can legally intervene in it, but if you're looking at the estimated value, then you should look at it in one segment of the part and at the premiums themselves, because it's illogical that you're paying the same premium for a 10-year-old car and a car a year-old or a new cash car, if their purchase value was the same. So it doesn't make sense to me because it's not equally estimated their value in the event of total damage. Here, thank you. Once again, the HNS Club will accept this.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u207019	Thank you. Here, we've exhausted the debate with this. ... Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm concluding a debate on these two points, and we'll vote on them when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u207020	Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Insurance Act, second reading, P.Z. No. 851. The motion is Government, the debate is closed. During the debate, the proposer's representative accepted the amendment of the Legislative Committee and became an integral part of the final proposal of the Law. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Insurance Act. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? I find that most of the vote is 110 for, 1 abstentions to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Insurance Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u207021	As decided this morning, we are now moving to a united debate on two agenda points. So that's: - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Insurance Act, second reading, P.Z. No. 851 and - Final draft law implementing Regulation 2017/2402 laying down a general framework for securitisation and establishing a specific framework for simple, transparent and standardised securitisation, second reading, P.Z. No. 857. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia 172. which is related to Art. 190. Rules of Procedure on the work of HS. On the occasion of the debate on these items of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to, please, the second reading of the law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. We have Mr Stipe Zupan, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, who will give an opening statement on behalf of the motionor. Here you go, Mr. Mayor.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u207022	Thank you, well-respected Vice President HS, respected MPs and MPs. As you have said, today is the final draft law amending and supplementing the Insurance Act, which has been developed with the aim of further harmonising Croatia's legal framework with EU rules in this area. As we said in our first reading, the bill among other things brings the following news. First of all, it is in line with the Solvency 2 Directive in order to fulfil the obligation to transpose the Directive in a consistent manner. The proposed law also amends provisions relating to the calculation of the minimum necessary capital and the conditions to be met by insurance companies in order to qualify as small companies. Furthermore, the draft law provides for the obligation to take out prior authorisation from HANFA to perform its duties as members of the Supervisory Board, as well as the conditions, suspension and withdrawal of authorisation for the performance of the same function. It is also possible for Leasing companies to carry out insurance distribution operations on behalf of one or more insurance companies or by order of the party. The differences between the first reading or the bill proposal and the final bill are the following. Amendments to the provisions of the laws containing the prescribed time limits in which supervisory entities are obliged to submit prescribed reports to the supervisory authority are proposed. The amendments are proposed to allow the deadlines to change in the event of special circumstances as they are now due to the occurrence of COVID-19 disease and all in order to facilitate the operation of surveillance entities under special circumstances. It is also nomotechnically completed and uniformly expressed provisions according to the comments of the HS Legislative Committee. Furthermore, an amendment to Art. 42. The HS Legislative Committee. The entry into force of this law is proposed on the eighth day of its publication in the National Journal. The second draft law, as you said, concerns the implementation of Regulation 2402 of 2017 laying down a general securitisation framework and establishing a specific framework for simple, transparent and standardised securitisation. First of all, I'd like to present some basic information on securitisations. It is therefore the process of converting non-transportable forms of claim, for example, credit into transferable instruments. securities. There was no specific legal framework for securitisations in the Republic of Croatia so far. The differences between the solutions proposed by the final draft law in relation to the solutions set out in the first reading bill have therefore been made in relation to the first reading resulting from the adoption of the observations and the proposal of the Committee on Law, as well as the amendments and additions made by the applicants in order to make the application of certain provisions more clear. Comments on the definition of securitisation have also been accepted in a way that is in Article. 3. adds the term ‘securitisation’ which, in the meaning of this Act, means a transaction or reshaping scheme in which the credit risk associated with the exposure or exposure set, is transited and has all the characteristics referred to in Article 3. 2nd century. 1st century. Regulation (EU) No 515/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 December 2013 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 2111/2005 (OJ L 348, 30.12.2013, p. 1). 2402. It is proposed that the law enter into force on the eighth day of its publication in the National Journal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u207023	Thank you. We have one replica, Comrade Bull, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u207024	Thank you very much. Secretary, how was the problem with the earthquake insurance, as it was in Zagreb, when the roof on the car was set, the car was secured, who will solve these people who are not to blame for their problem and financial damage? This is what citizens ask because in most cases in Zagreb we do not pay it. Have you found that solution and whether it has an obligation for the insurance company to pay for it or whether it will be resolved by the state or by banks in the Republic of Croatia and insurance companies that will not bear any costs? They won't touch them in the event of this crown crisis, and they'll touch everyone but them? Here, how did you solve this problem? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u207025	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u207026	Thank you very much. Your Honor, therefore, it is not the same subject of these amendments to the law on amendments and additions to the Insurance Act. Of course, the solution to such problems is found in the fact that individuals or not have secured their assets from the earthquake. Next, if they have secured, and the same covers the insurance policy, the same will be paid by the insurance company.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u207027	Thank you. Would the committee's rapporteurs like to take the floor, colleague Jelkovac and colleague Peric? If not, I'm opening a debate. The first registered on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club is counterpart Boris Lalovac. Here's a colleague of Lalovac's.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u207028	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State with an associate. Today, we have a united discussion of two laws that are, in fact, the most important part, alignment with the directives. In my first reading, I don't think there's been any more significant remarks than any of the representatives' clubs, so I won't be too much of a discussion. I'm just gonna give maybe some accent, what my colleague Bulj asked, I think it's a question of life. I know that this may not be the solution in this part of this directive, this law, but it has actually shown itself now, at least some of the life issues that are happening to us all of a sudden, and here, as my colleague Bulj said, it's been a long, long time earthquake that hasn't happened to us, and I think it's the same kind of questions that will show in the future when such a certain accident happens, which then insurance covers, or doesn't cover. So we here today adopt a number of directives, however, certainly that in the future we should lead on such life issues and the question is whether what we have heard here today, whether the cache covers it or not. There are different interpretations of the insurance company, so I think it's a good question that fellow Bull asked. So, about this Solvency II Directive, what's significant here, and that's actually introductory and noted is actually that they are, adding a new article. 13 which is actually an art. Article 102 amends Article 2 relating to the submission of a report by the insurance company to the Agency, means the HANFAs and the deadlines set by the Agency in more detail by the Regulation, have been amended to allow the deadlines to be amended in the event of an occurrence, meaning the existing specific circumstances. And it's added, too, to the new article. 30 to which it shall apply. The Agency shall, after point 3, add a point 4 laying down that the Agency shall, by means of a regulation, set deadlines for the delivery of annual financial reports for the insurance company, i.e. the brokerage company, insurance and reinsurance companies, and statistical reports for secondary insurance agents, insurance representatives and insurance representation companies. What is certainly stated here, and this is also the introduction, means by the final proposal of the law, the insurance intermediary club has been expanded so that the teaching companies are given the possibility to carry out insurance distribution operations. Even though it is not defined here for leasing, it must be noted, and it seems to me that this is also a fellow Shucker, when we proposed that moratorium law, that this actually happened to us between these two readings one big protest of carriers, happened... just about the Leasings, for the buses means people whose basic means of work, and on the one hand we have restrictions that are related to COVID, and on the other hand we have a very, very complicated situation where the state actually prescribed that someone would behave for COVID, and on the other hand these people and those lines that will be connected to their transport are inert because no bus can drive 10, 20 people from Zagreb-Split. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So it's a serious problem that's going to come before us, certainly not now, but I believe, very soon when a new Parliament is formed, I think that such a bill will have to be resolved and we know that these carriers, too, know that they are driving children. That they just don't have any more transportation for kids for school, all those county lines that will also, as it will work, and they all actually have a basic means, it's this Leasing bus that they've got to get to Leasing and they have to pay the Leasing Wars now, and they just don't, they can't drive, if they can drive a few people, etc., so I'm sure about insurance, but finally for Leasing Society, it seems to me that we're going to have to have some kind of solution in the next session, when it wasn't already going to discuss this, is it? In fact, these citizens themselves, entrepreneurs, have shown that simply their way of doing business in the future, that is, already now that it is very endangered and that we need to find some legal solutions there. The second law is actually about the directive, and most often, when we mention this securitisation process is the process of converting into intolerable forms of demand so-called. credits in transferable instruments, i.e. securities. This is the last time we said it was good to pass a law like this, a directive that now regulates the securitisation market that we know and we know for ourselves that this market caused a major financial crisis in 2008 and this is good for Croatia to implement one of these directives, because it protects in fact the Croatian financial market, protects investors, protects in fact a whole system of financial industries that was not regulated but has been left to the market that they can actually form and resell various so-called products. These securities packages, and we are very well aware that such repacked securities were then, in 2008, that Triple A, the best rating of these financial rating agencies, then later failed, we simply didn't have a regulated simple market like that. I think that's good, and I think for the last time and I was saying that by regulating this kind of business, the securitisation market has fallen rapidly in Europe, or because it's being put into order. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. And this is where our institutional investors in the Republic of Croatia are provided. So it's primarily about pension funds and pension insurance companies for their systemic importance, in investment in such securitisations, that's good. It's commendable and good and I think it's a good thing that we accepted in that part that they can then, because we know that pension funds have our pensions and that in that part, no matter what forms of securitisation they can appear in a year, two, three, etc. And not only on our market, but on a liberalised European market, it is important that we have a regulated area, as we know it all is good while it is going well, as you market well, but once it starts to collapse, they collapse like pyramids, and in this context we support these amendments to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u207029	We continue the debate on behalf of the clubs, the next colleague of Hrvoje Zekanovic is in front of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns. There is no colleague of Zekanovic, in accordance with Article. 233. loses the right to discuss these two points of the agenda. After him is the application from colleagues Ivan Lovrinović, the club of representatives of the Living Wall and Let's change Croatia, please welcome colleague Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u207030	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens. I'm talking today, and I'm going to talk about a proposal for the Securitisation Act. That's one word known to a small number of citizens because that's the English they'd say. We could say in the Croatian word that it is a post-papering or selling of one form of property and turning it into another form of property. In this case I will, on a practical, concrete example, not only explain what it is, but in front of the Party We change Croatia our experts have proposed how to save the blocked citizens, the overindebted citizens in the following way. So I cite an example of securitisation that can save about 230 000 blocked citizens who are overindebted. The banks sold their so-called so-called banks. non-refundable claims to debt-making agencies for about 10 billion kuna. These agencies are harassing our citizens, harassing us, people don't know what to do. The solution is next. This is, I'm saying, just talking about solutions. We're in a big crisis, it's time for and this crisis is suitable for big solutions. The state now needs to buy from these debt-depositing agencies for 10 billion all claims that these agencies bought from banks at that, at a slightly lower price, that they earn something, too, to get rid of them. How will the state buy these, these claims when there are no 10 billion kunas? Well, he's just gonna take a loan from the CNB. If the average maturity is 10 years. All credits to the citizens, she will broadcast that bond with a maturity of 10 years. 10 billion kuna. Who's gonna buy those bonds? Whoever it is. Citizens who have extra money, businesses, banks, institutional investors, foreigners, whoever they want, offer them an acceptable contribution that is certainly greater than the contributions they have now and will be dealt with. What are the fellow citizens, you who are blocked, what is the concrete result of this operation? So, here you'll stay now that the state sells the bond, and for her, her interest can be done by HPB or HABOR or any domestic institution she creates, you'll be in debt to that state body of the institution, no longer to the debt enforcement agencies. And dear citizens, we'll get rid of those agencies, they'll disappear and never exist in the Republic of Croatia again. They will no longer trade the torment of men to disturb you. Because if banks couldn't collect debts that couldn't be charged, and banks like that were still operating on some regulations, and how would the debt-deposit agencies be able to collect? Unless he's harassing you, if he takes away your real estate, he'll do it, etc. So, that won't happen anymore. What will be the end of your debt that you should repay within that time limit? If he, for example, is worth a million kunas, say today, and let's say that this operation is done today, you won't have to go back to, over the course of 10 years. A million kunas than a maximum of 400,000,00 kn. Why? Because debt enforcement agencies bought your debts with a huge discount, and now you're gonna be able to buy your debts out of the state on your own with that same discount. So it's not going to be another million kuna, it's going to cost $400,000.00. Dear citizens, it sounds incredible to you, it sounds amazing to you, but it's a solution to the profession. Why didn't the others bring it out here? Well, because they're not protecting your interest, they're protecting the Agency's interest in making debts, banks, CNBs the way they are, and that's it. So when the waist talks, you see, I've already brought it out here, there's been no objections here, I haven't heard from HDZ, SDP, especially SDP, he's been promoted as a social democratically sensitive party, so they've destroyed the pensioners, the workers, they've opened up that, that phenomenon of professional training, they've brought to the market work on a specific that lasts indefinitely, so you can do, until retirement work on a certain. They've introduced too much, there's no social sensitivity and solidarity in the SDP. So my standards are the same for each other. Both parties have brought disaster to the Croatian people and the Croatian state over the past period. It's up to you respected citizens, meaning a real model, a clear, scientifically well-founded, feasible model. This kind of securitisation, this is called securitisation, so it's turning your debt or claim, in this case the bank or agency turns into a government bond, that bond is being bought by investors, you're now paying further to the government that will be in charge, but you're not going to return 100% but 40%, and that's how it works from America, Australia, Switzerland, that's securitisation. But they didn't explain it to you because it's not in their best interest. They still want to put in pockets that are already packed, you know. And I hear here from the bench, some of these you know big parties throw something at me, come here, and we'll professionally talk about explaining ourselves here, right? Therefore, you are strong in language, but in practice and knowledge you are weak. This time only requires a profession. Let's go further, the financial system in Croatia is the cause of many instability, it is the cause of blockades, accidents of many citizens, interest, execution, the collapse of many businesses. I filed three criminal charges, one against the CNB because it allowed the Franak case, the other against HANFA, the Croatian Financial Institutions Supervisory Agency because it allowed the exchanges to be traded without cover from Agrokor concerts, and they knew that these bonds had no coverage. And I filed a third criminal complaint with the DORH against Raiffeisen Bank because she sought public ads from the PR agencies to help her carry out and put pressure on judges and courts so that they wouldn't get hurt in the event of a verdict about Frank at their expense. You see, DORH didn't send me a notice at all about what stage that criminal application was in. What do we see? We have a judicial system that legalizes, confirms, it protects what is done. But now I'm bringing you something new. You see the last criminal report was against Raiffeisen Bank, but what happened? During this crown crisis under the radar, a completely undetected one other thing was that another company from Raiffeisen Group that Raiffeisen licking in Croatia from 2008 to 2013 changed the fixed interest rate to its clients, so people who took licking for various equipment, vehicles, etc., were unilaterally changing interest rates. They didn't inform their clients at all, and they did it for five years, they did it for five years. And you know what HANFA wrote to them, she's like a child, you threaten her a little bit with your finger and say, "Don't do it anymore." You know how many of our entrepreneurs today who bought kobes buses, buses, trucks, means the means they work with to drive a taxi, etc., these are the people who can't bring back the licking wars today, and they've been counting interest rates illegally, and they haven't explained, at the time of the interest, so they've been doing what they want. So, Raiffeisen Bank, Raiffeisen Lizing, Raiffeisen factoring but other banks did so. So I need to give you another example to show that Croatia is simple, that its financial system is not in the service of the development of the economy and the well-being of citizens, but of creating trouble, destruction and destruction. The party Change Croatia will do everything after these elections to increase the share of domestic banks above 50%, it is now 8%, we will introduce a tax on bank assets, the debt enforcement agencies will disappear and there will be order in this country on the financial market, the one who respects the Croatian state will be able to pay taxes, and otherwise we will show them the door across the border. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u207031	Thank you. We continue to debate on behalf of representatives' clubs, next is counterpart Miro Bulj, club of representatives of the Most Independent Lists. Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u207032	Dear Prime Minister, the Honorable Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. I asked through the replica one question because simply we, who make laws, are the only ones who, as we always say, prescribe regulations, directives, harmonize with European legislation, and basically what is real and what is life, which we do not have a solution for that. That's why my question with vehicle insurance. Mostly vehicles, I was interested in that because I talked to people that one of the issues that can actually be discussed through this law should be talked about whether it's a life problem. A man if a chimney fell on the streets of the City of Zagreb during the earthquake he cannot collect his damage at this time, and he is not responsible for the earthquake, who is not the wrong caterer for not doing his cafe because of the crown crisis or similar situations, but this is about the earthquake, the consequences of the earthquake. When we talk about insurance to me, you're all here in front of the Ministry of Finance of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, as possible, that's what I was saying to the Minister of Transport to secure the vehicles. The buses carrying the kids, and in my Sinj, they burn two of them a month. And someone has secured, they have age I don't know means vehicles that aren't safe, so insurance in the Republic behaves as they wish. They so favor carriers that old buses that are up, which are dangerous to provide insurance because they are the same owner of Prometheus which is in Sinj in his area he has insurance which he also made in a space that is not intended for insurance i.e. The technical examinations are insurance houses, so that the whole process acts compromised, and to the most sensitive, which is to our children. While at the same time this government has passed a law that a taxi cannot be more than five years old to be eligible, of five years of taxi, means we're talking about vehicles, so that it please the Ubers, I don't know who everyone, who doesn't even pay for the full amount and obligations of the Republic of Croatia care where the applications we call a taxi, and here the buses, our bunch of us are looking at how they're going to burn down di have insurance. So a number of life issues are being asked, I'm talking about rural areas, here in the Cetina area in a month have burned down 4.5 buses with children, so school kids who are the most sensitive. Only by the skill of our drivers have saved them, which is why the buses are old and can't be meant to be. So this isn't just a question that we're copying, this is a question of life. And indeed citizens, especially the parents of these students, ask the question, how is it possible to provide that vehicle carrying school children, and it is old and wrong because in this transport company, here I mention again Promet Sinj, former Transport Makarska, i.e. Sister's company Transport Makarska, how can this be secured? Easy, I'm doing a technical checkup, his vehicle and that's it. So we're bringing in, I'm talking about living situations, I know that you in the financial aspect of the word we're doing this with EU legislation through regulations, the directives we're harmonising, but life problems make us look a little wider in the context of everyday events and dangers. Because of course it is a danger for our citizens to be afraid to send their children to school on buses and to pray to God for them to return alive. Not for a reason, man always has dangers in the traffic, but because of the frequent malfunctions of the bus carrying. I asked these two questions, first I put it in the replica, you say it doesn't apply to the Insurance Act in this part, I think the Ministry should think about it because simply these citizens are not responsible for the damage caused in the earthquake and that it needs to find a way to legally implement the insurance. And also that the state finds some sort of solution for our citizens who have suffered damage in the case, I... I am a Zagreb earthquake, but also a number of other damages that are, but Zagreb has now opened our eyes as time goes by these people will not achieve their right. Your compensation, no matter what you say, we don't know if an earthquake insurance, I don't know at all. But we need to think that way. This is also the case at home in the city centres, there should be something in particular in these thorny areas such as Zagreb, which is subject to earthquakes, but also in many other places it should be considered from the legislative side to regulate and apply the real situation. As far as securitisation is concerned, I'm not going to talk about it much, I'm just going to say it briefly, I'm not going to talk about the credentials, I'm not going to talk about the action and the reduction of those values, the trading or the way they work. I can only say that this government, the distinguished representative of the government, the tribunal brings the first measure, the first measure of the crown of the crisis, however it is not. Now the whole process has been politicised, even the Civil Protection Headquarters has been politicized, and it has been turned a little bit into the pre-election headquarters of the HDZ. Is it possible that we can go, I ask you, how is it possible that we punish people who have lorries that can't drive, drive, transport and operate, and at the same time send a message that those who are in isolation, and even those who have been gnawing their fields, threw... in the field they got a fine of 8000 kunas, were declared bioterrorists, literally murderers while all kept social distances. At the same time, those who can't do the licking that they have, means that they can't function on their working means at the same time say what they are in isolation during the elections can get a mask, they can get a mask and go to elections. So we're jeopardizing the people who are and the means of work have to lick that I can't work on the bus, I see that fellow climate is probably saying that this is off topic. Yes, it's off topic, but the station that has a reputation doesn't protect people who have licking and who can't transport people because of self-insulation, can't function and work with that means of transport, while at the same time inviting people who are in isolation to go out with a mask to the elections. Take the pen, vote there, vote the election board picks up. That's the reality of my colleague Kleman, it's reality, it's a compromise of a single body that should be a professional body, which deals with a health epidemic from the coronary virus. And that's a huge problem because the system's jammed, the problem is the earthquake and the insurance, it's all the trouble that I have the right as a council representative to point out if I went past the building where the man's chimney fell on the car, and he's not the one who did the earthquake. At the same time, he would still point out as this crisis takes place, the only government representatives when we talk about securitisation is a colleague before me and mentioned debt seekers legalised, they earn, they're banks is the first measure to be taken, and it's not adopted that's a moratorium on interest loans. But we can't move in them, we can't have insurance houses this time I'm not going to mention it, we shouldn't mention it, but when the insurance law for these damages came to those parts of their people or to help those people, they have a huge profit, or banks that make billions of dollars, or law-abiding debts to our citizens. So let's look at reality and do law for man, not for interest groups. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u207033	We're continuing the debate on behalf of the MPs' club. The debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club will be shared by colleagues Kliman and Shuker, first colleague Antun Kleman, please welcome colleague Kliman.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u207034	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, I welcome you all as well as the representatives of the Ministry of Finance. I'm just going to take a quick look at this law, and we call it securitization. So the HDZ Club will support this bill. This is also, as usual, one of, therefore, the application of EU regulations to our legislation and I again hold, given that I was, on several occasions, a rapporteur on behalf of the club, that these regulations should indeed be dealt with in an urgent procedure because they are, they must be applied simply. Here, we had comments from the Legislative Committee, it can all be solved in one, in one blow, so in 2 readings I think it is really unnecessary when, when we are members, when we are members of the EU, I think we should really be practical and do that, and apply it in an emergency procedure. This is a very important law and I think it is necessary to say that here we are entering a circle of countries where we will in some way reduce risks, systemic risks in the financial sector, so that we do not experience a major economic crisis and financial crisis in the first row of 2008. If there was such a law on the world level, they wouldn't have had such a big crisis in the EU as we had in 2008. Because this law really prescribes all steps to reduce the crisis in, therefore, the cashing of credit, so credit obligations with banks, the release of bank balances so that banks can continue to be in debt and business, and so that financial institutions can be involved in, in this whole, in the whole business. The whole series, so the solutions are through, through this law listed and I think that this law will in any case encourage the more transparent business of banks, credit buyers, to sell financial instruments further. Here, we also heard in this debate that was in the first reading, very fruitful, we had several very good discussions, that in the very introduction of this law in 2017. in the EU, they fell terribly, investments fell in, into these securities. Why? Because it was very standard for only trading in securities and thus speculation was reduced. So, those who wanted to hunt in the dim no longer, were no longer the ones who wanted to get into the normised business and simply as such fell and, and the trade of these papers fell, but also the state institutions and pension funds were involved in itself, in this trade itself, and therefore the whole story was brought into a single row. Since it was a very good debate in the first reading, here I would not have been much longer, nor would this longer, to leave my colleague Shuker further related to the insurance companies. I will repeat once again that HDZ will support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u207035	Thank you. Just a second, Comrade Shucker, please, miss. Here's your colleague Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u207036	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President HS, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. Well, a technical law and saying something about this law would actually be repeating what the ministry representative said and what some colleagues said. However, some things should be said to remain recorded. First of all, in this law in the first reading we discussed on 12.3., it was a week before the earthquake in the City of Zagreb and it was practically a week before the introduction of these epidemiological measures when practically the whole of the Republic of Croatia stopped, then all the representatives of the clubs had the opportunity to warn what could possibly happen since some countries in our environment were already in deep isolation, as this financial sector of the Republic of Croatia is very important, and this is part of the non-banking financial sector of the insurance society. In fact, it was only the HDZ Club and something was said by a colleague named Lalovac at the SDP Club. So when something had to be said in advance, when it had to be warned of certain things then there was no. In these past two days, however, we have been aware of the fearsome ex-post senses of finance in this assembly. So, we spent about 40% more of the state budget yesterday and today and we spent one already once and a half times the CNB foreign reserve because it's a magic wand that can solve all the problems in the Republic of Croatia. Another thing I'm trying to say is, when you look at the structure of the insurance company's ownership, then you'll see that these are all private-owned societies. Now, when everyone's saying that private property is flexible, that private people agree, I honestly expected that this relationship between all Croatian banks and Leasing societies, and especially insurance companies, will be much more flexible and that they will react to certain things that have been hit by Croatian businessmen and Croatian citizens regardless of what it says in the law, regardless of what someone didn't say and it's logical if one car carrier doesn't use buses for two months, there's no risk of harm, so it would be both business and human and logical that someone said, and nothing has any special wisdom, let's extend the policy for those two months. And then we would clearly send a message to everyone that we are very aware of this situation and that we want each other's help. Another thing, some who offer rescue solutions would be very interesting to see if their insurance policy for cars and Casco insurance contains these provisions that they talk about because if you think something should be inside then the logical thing is that you won't sign that insurance contract because it doesn't protect you. But we also have to be aware of the fact that we're exercising the rights based on what we signed, and that's simply the facts we have to say. However, what I want here to say is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Ministry of Finance can say is that at this moment it makes maximum use of the full potential of the Republic of Croatia, the full financial potential of the Republic of Croatia on the one hand to respond and help the Croatian economy, to preserve jobs, to take certain social measures to facilitate the life of Croatian citizens and Croatian businessmen in these difficult moments, and that should be said when speaking here because why I mentioned this 12.3. and then there should be stories like this, it should be like this. And what happened? At the moment the virtual economy was blocked because of the epidemic, the government of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Finance reacted. We said it here on 12.3. that at the moment when it is necessary to react that the Ministry of Finance, based on its knowledge, will react based on its experience. Is that what happened? It happened. Did Croatian entrepreneurs get that salary of 3,250 kuna and before they hoped and perhaps there were some mistakes and failures, but we are from HDZ that the Prime Minister and Minister of Finance therefore warned us from the HDZ club all the time when the measures taken were mutually responsible. One side is the responsibility of those who give the means and on the other hand the responsibility of those who receive the funds because that is the only way we can be effective. So when we talk to this insurance company about their assets, it's not negligible at all, it's $42 billion. Their grossly charged premium is more than 10 billion kuna and it is for one Croatia and for that segment that they cover exceptional potential. How they will react or how they should react in the event of an earthquake in the City of Zagreb, it depends on who has the policy, and they could simply react in some situations and probably have helped Croatian citizens. So all of these changes that we are harmonising with EU directives are changes that are not a lot tangling Croatian citizens themselves, but changes that regulate the global functioning of this market for insurance companies. But I repeat, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has reacted under these conditions, those who could not accept it because in time they had not responded in these past days spent half of the Croatian budget and twice spent the CNB foreign reserves to solve all these problems. Therefore, the HDZ Club will... this Insurance Act and what my colleague Lalovac said and last time we agreed about licking companies, I think they had to react without anyone pushing them. Where it's obvious that what's on the lease isn't in operation, that it just automatically extends the deadline and I think that would make it easier for everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u207037	Thank you, Comrade Shuker. And the last debate I believe today about this point, since individual debates have disappeared... No, it's not, it's not. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Dear representative, ten minutes as well as anyone, colleague Stephen Curry in front of the Club of Representatives of the CNS.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u207038	Thank you, Vice President. Then I'll be very brief. Dear representatives of the promoters, colleagues and colleagues. So, I don't think I'm repeating the HNS club will support these amendments to the law, first and foremost, the work of insurance companies, and as regards the necessary minimum calculation of the minimum capital, the conditions for companies to qualify as their own small companies. And what is more important is that they bring the risks involved, by equating the application of the insurance law and the Directive to replace Kunski amounts in euro, of course, by citing all the recalculations in the counter-value of the CNB mid-rate, etc., so some other bilateral agreements, and more or less all of the first reading which is acceptable and this difference and the new article that we added to the first reading, first of all, and the current situation, we absolutely welcome it. What I wanted to take advantage of was this opportunity to draw attention to one by one illogicality in determining premiums of car insurance specifically optional or to Kasko car insurance, namely the current insurance situation exists that they estimate the premium based on the purchase value of the vehicle. So a vehicle either 10 years old or 1 year premium is determined based on the purchase value of a vehicle that can be 200,000 kuna, for example. If the car is five years old, let's say it has an estimated value of 70. However, in the case of a policy activation, they do not count the price purchased but estimated. So if the total damage is estimated they pay you about 50,000 kuna, and you pay the insurance like for 200. So you pay the premium as a new car, so it's the same premium of a car one day and a car a thousand days old or five thousand days old if the premium is calculated based on the purchase value of a vehicle. The cost of repairing one, the cost of repairing another might be the same because parts are parts, they can still figure it out, but when it's estimated, and they have more or less when it's a little bit more damage then they usually estimate it on the total, so they give you the estimated value of the vehicle by some table, and then it's not the same, can it not be the same then? You pay like it's new, and then you judge me as new, but no. So basically this is the way to calculate and these tables are also the favorite of the insurance companies themselves. Not to talk about all those tensions that people are going through, confessing, is, isn't, how much, do repairs, so they give you something so you fix it yourself, or they pay you for repairs, and I say, the worst happens when you estimate total damage even if it can be fixed, but it always evaluates you, and of course nobody works on its own. And all right, I can understand it, and they have to live on something. Although they live well, by the way, to be clear. And they wouldn't live so well that more people don't pay more than they use it, but that's the meaning of insurance, evil shouldn't and that's a little more developed that culture today would have more secure people here, both from earthquakes and from other things, so we should also think about such a way. But this part is very illogical to me, and here I have to say, I don't know if we can legally intervene in it, but if you're looking at the estimated value, then you should look at it in one segment of the part and at the premiums themselves, because it's illogical that you're paying the same premium for a 10-year-old car and a car a year-old or a new cash car, if their purchase value was the same. So it doesn't make sense to me because it's not equally estimated their value in the event of total damage. Here, thank you. Once again, the HNS Club will accept this.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u207039	Thank you. Here, we've exhausted the debate with this. ... Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm concluding a debate on these two points, and we'll vote on them when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u207040	Final proposal of the Law implementing EU Regulation 2017/2402 laying down a general framework for securitisation on the establishment of a specific framework for simple, transparent and standardised securitisation, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 857. The promoter is the Government, and the debate is closed, and I am voting on the final proposal of the Law. Please, let's vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? I find that most of the votes we have stated the law, there were 107 for, 6 abstentions and 1 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u207041	As decided this morning, we are now moving to a united debate on two agenda points. So that's: - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Insurance Act, second reading, P.Z. No. 851 and - Final draft law implementing Regulation 2017/2402 laying down a general framework for securitisation and establishing a specific framework for simple, transparent and standardised securitisation, second reading, P.Z. No. 857. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia 172. which is related to Art. 190. Rules of Procedure on the work of HS. On the occasion of the debate on these items of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to, please, the second reading of the law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. We have Mr Stipe Zupan, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, who will give an opening statement on behalf of the motionor. Here you go, Mr. Mayor.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u207042	Thank you, well-respected Vice President HS, respected MPs and MPs. As you have said, today is the final draft law amending and supplementing the Insurance Act, which has been developed with the aim of further harmonising Croatia's legal framework with EU rules in this area. As we said in our first reading, the bill among other things brings the following news. First of all, it is in line with the Solvency 2 Directive in order to fulfil the obligation to transpose the Directive in a consistent manner. The proposed law also amends provisions relating to the calculation of the minimum necessary capital and the conditions to be met by insurance companies in order to qualify as small companies. Furthermore, the draft law provides for the obligation to take out prior authorisation from HANFA to perform its duties as members of the Supervisory Board, as well as the conditions, suspension and withdrawal of authorisation for the performance of the same function. It is also possible for Leasing companies to carry out insurance distribution operations on behalf of one or more insurance companies or by order of the party. The differences between the first reading or the bill proposal and the final bill are the following. Amendments to the provisions of the laws containing the prescribed time limits in which supervisory entities are obliged to submit prescribed reports to the supervisory authority are proposed. The amendments are proposed to allow the deadlines to change in the event of special circumstances as they are now due to the occurrence of COVID-19 disease and all in order to facilitate the operation of surveillance entities under special circumstances. It is also nomotechnically completed and uniformly expressed provisions according to the comments of the HS Legislative Committee. Furthermore, an amendment to Art. 42. The HS Legislative Committee. The entry into force of this law is proposed on the eighth day of its publication in the National Journal. The second draft law, as you said, concerns the implementation of Regulation 2402 of 2017 laying down a general securitisation framework and establishing a specific framework for simple, transparent and standardised securitisation. First of all, I'd like to present some basic information on securitisations. It is therefore the process of converting non-transportable forms of claim, for example, credit into transferable instruments. securities. There was no specific legal framework for securitisations in the Republic of Croatia so far. The differences between the solutions proposed by the final draft law in relation to the solutions set out in the first reading bill have therefore been made in relation to the first reading resulting from the adoption of the observations and the proposal of the Committee on Law, as well as the amendments and additions made by the applicants in order to make the application of certain provisions more clear. Comments on the definition of securitisation have also been accepted in a way that is in Article. 3. adds the term ‘securitisation’ which, in the meaning of this Act, means a transaction or reshaping scheme in which the credit risk associated with the exposure or exposure set, is transited and has all the characteristics referred to in Article 3. 2nd century. 1st century. Regulation (EU) No 515/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 December 2013 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 2111/2005 (OJ L 348, 30.12.2013, p. 1). 2402. It is proposed that the law enter into force on the eighth day of its publication in the National Journal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u207043	Thank you. We have one replica, Comrade Bull, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u207044	Thank you very much. Secretary, how was the problem with the earthquake insurance, as it was in Zagreb, when the roof on the car was set, the car was secured, who will solve these people who are not to blame for their problem and financial damage? This is what citizens ask because in most cases in Zagreb we do not pay it. Have you found that solution and whether it has an obligation for the insurance company to pay for it or whether it will be resolved by the state or by banks in the Republic of Croatia and insurance companies that will not bear any costs? They won't touch them in the event of this crown crisis, and they'll touch everyone but them? Here, how did you solve this problem? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u207045	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u207046	Thank you very much. Your Honor, therefore, it is not the same subject of these amendments to the law on amendments and additions to the Insurance Act. Of course, the solution to such problems is found in the fact that individuals or not have secured their assets from the earthquake. Next, if they have secured, and the same covers the insurance policy, the same will be paid by the insurance company.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u207047	Thank you. Would the committee's rapporteurs like to take the floor, colleague Jelkovac and colleague Peric? If not, I'm opening a debate. The first registered on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club is counterpart Boris Lalovac. Here's a colleague of Lalovac's.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u207048	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State with an associate. Today, we have a united discussion of two laws that are, in fact, the most important part, alignment with the directives. In my first reading, I don't think there's been any more significant remarks than any of the representatives' clubs, so I won't be too much of a discussion. I'm just gonna give maybe some accent, what my colleague Bulj asked, I think it's a question of life. I know that this may not be the solution in this part of this directive, this law, but it has actually shown itself now, at least some of the life issues that are happening to us all of a sudden, and here, as my colleague Bulj said, it's been a long, long time earthquake that hasn't happened to us, and I think it's the same kind of questions that will show in the future when such a certain accident happens, which then insurance covers, or doesn't cover. So we here today adopt a number of directives, however, certainly that in the future we should lead on such life issues and the question is whether what we have heard here today, whether the cache covers it or not. There are different interpretations of the insurance company, so I think it's a good question that fellow Bull asked. So, about this Solvency II Directive, what's significant here, and that's actually introductory and noted is actually that they are, adding a new article. 13 which is actually an art. Article 102 amends Article 2 relating to the submission of a report by the insurance company to the Agency, means the HANFAs and the deadlines set by the Agency in more detail by the Regulation, have been amended to allow the deadlines to be amended in the event of an occurrence, meaning the existing specific circumstances. And it's added, too, to the new article. 30 to which it shall apply. The Agency shall, after point 3, add a point 4 laying down that the Agency shall, by means of a regulation, set deadlines for the delivery of annual financial reports for the insurance company, i.e. the brokerage company, insurance and reinsurance companies, and statistical reports for secondary insurance agents, insurance representatives and insurance representation companies. What is certainly stated here, and this is also the introduction, means by the final proposal of the law, the insurance intermediary club has been expanded so that the teaching companies are given the possibility to carry out insurance distribution operations. Even though it is not defined here for leasing, it must be noted, and it seems to me that this is also a fellow Shucker, when we proposed that moratorium law, that this actually happened to us between these two readings one big protest of carriers, happened... just about the Leasings, for the buses means people whose basic means of work, and on the one hand we have restrictions that are related to COVID, and on the other hand we have a very, very complicated situation where the state actually prescribed that someone would behave for COVID, and on the other hand these people and those lines that will be connected to their transport are inert because no bus can drive 10, 20 people from Zagreb-Split. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So it's a serious problem that's going to come before us, certainly not now, but I believe, very soon when a new Parliament is formed, I think that such a bill will have to be resolved and we know that these carriers, too, know that they are driving children. That they just don't have any more transportation for kids for school, all those county lines that will also, as it will work, and they all actually have a basic means, it's this Leasing bus that they've got to get to Leasing and they have to pay the Leasing Wars now, and they just don't, they can't drive, if they can drive a few people, etc., so I'm sure about insurance, but finally for Leasing Society, it seems to me that we're going to have to have some kind of solution in the next session, when it wasn't already going to discuss this, is it? In fact, these citizens themselves, entrepreneurs, have shown that simply their way of doing business in the future, that is, already now that it is very endangered and that we need to find some legal solutions there. The second law is actually about the directive, and most often, when we mention this securitisation process is the process of converting into intolerable forms of demand so-called. credits in transferable instruments, i.e. securities. This is the last time we said it was good to pass a law like this, a directive that now regulates the securitisation market that we know and we know for ourselves that this market caused a major financial crisis in 2008 and this is good for Croatia to implement one of these directives, because it protects in fact the Croatian financial market, protects investors, protects in fact a whole system of financial industries that was not regulated but has been left to the market that they can actually form and resell various so-called products. These securities packages, and we are very well aware that such repacked securities were then, in 2008, that Triple A, the best rating of these financial rating agencies, then later failed, we simply didn't have a regulated simple market like that. I think that's good, and I think for the last time and I was saying that by regulating this kind of business, the securitisation market has fallen rapidly in Europe, or because it's being put into order. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. And this is where our institutional investors in the Republic of Croatia are provided. So it's primarily about pension funds and pension insurance companies for their systemic importance, in investment in such securitisations, that's good. It's commendable and good and I think it's a good thing that we accepted in that part that they can then, because we know that pension funds have our pensions and that in that part, no matter what forms of securitisation they can appear in a year, two, three, etc. And not only on our market, but on a liberalised European market, it is important that we have a regulated area, as we know it all is good while it is going well, as you market well, but once it starts to collapse, they collapse like pyramids, and in this context we support these amendments to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u207049	We continue the debate on behalf of the clubs, the next colleague of Hrvoje Zekanovic is in front of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns. There is no colleague of Zekanovic, in accordance with Article. 233. loses the right to discuss these two points of the agenda. After him is the application from colleagues Ivan Lovrinović, the club of representatives of the Living Wall and Let's change Croatia, please welcome colleague Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u207050	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens. I'm talking today, and I'm going to talk about a proposal for the Securitisation Act. That's one word known to a small number of citizens because that's the English they'd say. We could say in the Croatian word that it is a post-papering or selling of one form of property and turning it into another form of property. In this case I will, on a practical, concrete example, not only explain what it is, but in front of the Party We change Croatia our experts have proposed how to save the blocked citizens, the overindebted citizens in the following way. So I cite an example of securitisation that can save about 230 000 blocked citizens who are overindebted. The banks sold their so-called so-called banks. non-refundable claims to debt-making agencies for about 10 billion kuna. These agencies are harassing our citizens, harassing us, people don't know what to do. The solution is next. This is, I'm saying, just talking about solutions. We're in a big crisis, it's time for and this crisis is suitable for big solutions. The state now needs to buy from these debt-depositing agencies for 10 billion all claims that these agencies bought from banks at that, at a slightly lower price, that they earn something, too, to get rid of them. How will the state buy these, these claims when there are no 10 billion kunas? Well, he's just gonna take a loan from the CNB. If the average maturity is 10 years. All credits to the citizens, she will broadcast that bond with a maturity of 10 years. 10 billion kuna. Who's gonna buy those bonds? Whoever it is. Citizens who have extra money, businesses, banks, institutional investors, foreigners, whoever they want, offer them an acceptable contribution that is certainly greater than the contributions they have now and will be dealt with. What are the fellow citizens, you who are blocked, what is the concrete result of this operation? So, here you'll stay now that the state sells the bond, and for her, her interest can be done by HPB or HABOR or any domestic institution she creates, you'll be in debt to that state body of the institution, no longer to the debt enforcement agencies. And dear citizens, we'll get rid of those agencies, they'll disappear and never exist in the Republic of Croatia again. They will no longer trade the torment of men to disturb you. Because if banks couldn't collect debts that couldn't be charged, and banks like that were still operating on some regulations, and how would the debt-deposit agencies be able to collect? Unless he's harassing you, if he takes away your real estate, he'll do it, etc. So, that won't happen anymore. What will be the end of your debt that you should repay within that time limit? If he, for example, is worth a million kunas, say today, and let's say that this operation is done today, you won't have to go back to, over the course of 10 years. A million kunas than a maximum of 400,000,00 kn. Why? Because debt enforcement agencies bought your debts with a huge discount, and now you're gonna be able to buy your debts out of the state on your own with that same discount. So it's not going to be another million kuna, it's going to cost $400,000.00. Dear citizens, it sounds incredible to you, it sounds amazing to you, but it's a solution to the profession. Why didn't the others bring it out here? Well, because they're not protecting your interest, they're protecting the Agency's interest in making debts, banks, CNBs the way they are, and that's it. So when the waist talks, you see, I've already brought it out here, there's been no objections here, I haven't heard from HDZ, SDP, especially SDP, he's been promoted as a social democratically sensitive party, so they've destroyed the pensioners, the workers, they've opened up that, that phenomenon of professional training, they've brought to the market work on a specific that lasts indefinitely, so you can do, until retirement work on a certain. They've introduced too much, there's no social sensitivity and solidarity in the SDP. So my standards are the same for each other. Both parties have brought disaster to the Croatian people and the Croatian state over the past period. It's up to you respected citizens, meaning a real model, a clear, scientifically well-founded, feasible model. This kind of securitisation, this is called securitisation, so it's turning your debt or claim, in this case the bank or agency turns into a government bond, that bond is being bought by investors, you're now paying further to the government that will be in charge, but you're not going to return 100% but 40%, and that's how it works from America, Australia, Switzerland, that's securitisation. But they didn't explain it to you because it's not in their best interest. They still want to put in pockets that are already packed, you know. And I hear here from the bench, some of these you know big parties throw something at me, come here, and we'll professionally talk about explaining ourselves here, right? Therefore, you are strong in language, but in practice and knowledge you are weak. This time only requires a profession. Let's go further, the financial system in Croatia is the cause of many instability, it is the cause of blockades, accidents of many citizens, interest, execution, the collapse of many businesses. I filed three criminal charges, one against the CNB because it allowed the Franak case, the other against HANFA, the Croatian Financial Institutions Supervisory Agency because it allowed the exchanges to be traded without cover from Agrokor concerts, and they knew that these bonds had no coverage. And I filed a third criminal complaint with the DORH against Raiffeisen Bank because she sought public ads from the PR agencies to help her carry out and put pressure on judges and courts so that they wouldn't get hurt in the event of a verdict about Frank at their expense. You see, DORH didn't send me a notice at all about what stage that criminal application was in. What do we see? We have a judicial system that legalizes, confirms, it protects what is done. But now I'm bringing you something new. You see the last criminal report was against Raiffeisen Bank, but what happened? During this crown crisis under the radar, a completely undetected one other thing was that another company from Raiffeisen Group that Raiffeisen licking in Croatia from 2008 to 2013 changed the fixed interest rate to its clients, so people who took licking for various equipment, vehicles, etc., were unilaterally changing interest rates. They didn't inform their clients at all, and they did it for five years, they did it for five years. And you know what HANFA wrote to them, she's like a child, you threaten her a little bit with your finger and say, "Don't do it anymore." You know how many of our entrepreneurs today who bought kobes buses, buses, trucks, means the means they work with to drive a taxi, etc., these are the people who can't bring back the licking wars today, and they've been counting interest rates illegally, and they haven't explained, at the time of the interest, so they've been doing what they want. So, Raiffeisen Bank, Raiffeisen Lizing, Raiffeisen factoring but other banks did so. So I need to give you another example to show that Croatia is simple, that its financial system is not in the service of the development of the economy and the well-being of citizens, but of creating trouble, destruction and destruction. The party Change Croatia will do everything after these elections to increase the share of domestic banks above 50%, it is now 8%, we will introduce a tax on bank assets, the debt enforcement agencies will disappear and there will be order in this country on the financial market, the one who respects the Croatian state will be able to pay taxes, and otherwise we will show them the door across the border. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u207051	Thank you. We continue to debate on behalf of representatives' clubs, next is counterpart Miro Bulj, club of representatives of the Most Independent Lists. Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u207052	Dear Prime Minister, the Honorable Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. I asked through the replica one question because simply we, who make laws, are the only ones who, as we always say, prescribe regulations, directives, harmonize with European legislation, and basically what is real and what is life, which we do not have a solution for that. That's why my question with vehicle insurance. Mostly vehicles, I was interested in that because I talked to people that one of the issues that can actually be discussed through this law should be talked about whether it's a life problem. A man if a chimney fell on the streets of the City of Zagreb during the earthquake he cannot collect his damage at this time, and he is not responsible for the earthquake, who is not the wrong caterer for not doing his cafe because of the crown crisis or similar situations, but this is about the earthquake, the consequences of the earthquake. When we talk about insurance to me, you're all here in front of the Ministry of Finance of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, as possible, that's what I was saying to the Minister of Transport to secure the vehicles. The buses carrying the kids, and in my Sinj, they burn two of them a month. And someone has secured, they have age I don't know means vehicles that aren't safe, so insurance in the Republic behaves as they wish. They so favor carriers that old buses that are up, which are dangerous to provide insurance because they are the same owner of Prometheus which is in Sinj in his area he has insurance which he also made in a space that is not intended for insurance i.e. The technical examinations are insurance houses, so that the whole process acts compromised, and to the most sensitive, which is to our children. While at the same time this government has passed a law that a taxi cannot be more than five years old to be eligible, of five years of taxi, means we're talking about vehicles, so that it please the Ubers, I don't know who everyone, who doesn't even pay for the full amount and obligations of the Republic of Croatia care where the applications we call a taxi, and here the buses, our bunch of us are looking at how they're going to burn down di have insurance. So a number of life issues are being asked, I'm talking about rural areas, here in the Cetina area in a month have burned down 4.5 buses with children, so school kids who are the most sensitive. Only by the skill of our drivers have saved them, which is why the buses are old and can't be meant to be. So this isn't just a question that we're copying, this is a question of life. And indeed citizens, especially the parents of these students, ask the question, how is it possible to provide that vehicle carrying school children, and it is old and wrong because in this transport company, here I mention again Promet Sinj, former Transport Makarska, i.e. Sister's company Transport Makarska, how can this be secured? Easy, I'm doing a technical checkup, his vehicle and that's it. So we're bringing in, I'm talking about living situations, I know that you in the financial aspect of the word we're doing this with EU legislation through regulations, the directives we're harmonising, but life problems make us look a little wider in the context of everyday events and dangers. Because of course it is a danger for our citizens to be afraid to send their children to school on buses and to pray to God for them to return alive. Not for a reason, man always has dangers in the traffic, but because of the frequent malfunctions of the bus carrying. I asked these two questions, first I put it in the replica, you say it doesn't apply to the Insurance Act in this part, I think the Ministry should think about it because simply these citizens are not responsible for the damage caused in the earthquake and that it needs to find a way to legally implement the insurance. And also that the state finds some sort of solution for our citizens who have suffered damage in the case, I... I am a Zagreb earthquake, but also a number of other damages that are, but Zagreb has now opened our eyes as time goes by these people will not achieve their right. Your compensation, no matter what you say, we don't know if an earthquake insurance, I don't know at all. But we need to think that way. This is also the case at home in the city centres, there should be something in particular in these thorny areas such as Zagreb, which is subject to earthquakes, but also in many other places it should be considered from the legislative side to regulate and apply the real situation. As far as securitisation is concerned, I'm not going to talk about it much, I'm just going to say it briefly, I'm not going to talk about the credentials, I'm not going to talk about the action and the reduction of those values, the trading or the way they work. I can only say that this government, the distinguished representative of the government, the tribunal brings the first measure, the first measure of the crown of the crisis, however it is not. Now the whole process has been politicised, even the Civil Protection Headquarters has been politicized, and it has been turned a little bit into the pre-election headquarters of the HDZ. Is it possible that we can go, I ask you, how is it possible that we punish people who have lorries that can't drive, drive, transport and operate, and at the same time send a message that those who are in isolation, and even those who have been gnawing their fields, threw... in the field they got a fine of 8000 kunas, were declared bioterrorists, literally murderers while all kept social distances. At the same time, those who can't do the licking that they have, means that they can't function on their working means at the same time say what they are in isolation during the elections can get a mask, they can get a mask and go to elections. So we're jeopardizing the people who are and the means of work have to lick that I can't work on the bus, I see that fellow climate is probably saying that this is off topic. Yes, it's off topic, but the station that has a reputation doesn't protect people who have licking and who can't transport people because of self-insulation, can't function and work with that means of transport, while at the same time inviting people who are in isolation to go out with a mask to the elections. Take the pen, vote there, vote the election board picks up. That's the reality of my colleague Kleman, it's reality, it's a compromise of a single body that should be a professional body, which deals with a health epidemic from the coronary virus. And that's a huge problem because the system's jammed, the problem is the earthquake and the insurance, it's all the trouble that I have the right as a council representative to point out if I went past the building where the man's chimney fell on the car, and he's not the one who did the earthquake. At the same time, he would still point out as this crisis takes place, the only government representatives when we talk about securitisation is a colleague before me and mentioned debt seekers legalised, they earn, they're banks is the first measure to be taken, and it's not adopted that's a moratorium on interest loans. But we can't move in them, we can't have insurance houses this time I'm not going to mention it, we shouldn't mention it, but when the insurance law for these damages came to those parts of their people or to help those people, they have a huge profit, or banks that make billions of dollars, or law-abiding debts to our citizens. So let's look at reality and do law for man, not for interest groups. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u207053	We're continuing the debate on behalf of the MPs' club. The debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club will be shared by colleagues Kliman and Shuker, first colleague Antun Kleman, please welcome colleague Kliman.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u207054	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, I welcome you all as well as the representatives of the Ministry of Finance. I'm just going to take a quick look at this law, and we call it securitization. So the HDZ Club will support this bill. This is also, as usual, one of, therefore, the application of EU regulations to our legislation and I again hold, given that I was, on several occasions, a rapporteur on behalf of the club, that these regulations should indeed be dealt with in an urgent procedure because they are, they must be applied simply. Here, we had comments from the Legislative Committee, it can all be solved in one, in one blow, so in 2 readings I think it is really unnecessary when, when we are members, when we are members of the EU, I think we should really be practical and do that, and apply it in an emergency procedure. This is a very important law and I think it is necessary to say that here we are entering a circle of countries where we will in some way reduce risks, systemic risks in the financial sector, so that we do not experience a major economic crisis and financial crisis in the first row of 2008. If there was such a law on the world level, they wouldn't have had such a big crisis in the EU as we had in 2008. Because this law really prescribes all steps to reduce the crisis in, therefore, the cashing of credit, so credit obligations with banks, the release of bank balances so that banks can continue to be in debt and business, and so that financial institutions can be involved in, in this whole, in the whole business. The whole series, so the solutions are through, through this law listed and I think that this law will in any case encourage the more transparent business of banks, credit buyers, to sell financial instruments further. Here, we also heard in this debate that was in the first reading, very fruitful, we had several very good discussions, that in the very introduction of this law in 2017. in the EU, they fell terribly, investments fell in, into these securities. Why? Because it was very standard for only trading in securities and thus speculation was reduced. So, those who wanted to hunt in the dim no longer, were no longer the ones who wanted to get into the normised business and simply as such fell and, and the trade of these papers fell, but also the state institutions and pension funds were involved in itself, in this trade itself, and therefore the whole story was brought into a single row. Since it was a very good debate in the first reading, here I would not have been much longer, nor would this longer, to leave my colleague Shuker further related to the insurance companies. I will repeat once again that HDZ will support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u207055	Thank you. Just a second, Comrade Shucker, please, miss. Here's your colleague Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u207056	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President HS, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. Well, a technical law and saying something about this law would actually be repeating what the ministry representative said and what some colleagues said. However, some things should be said to remain recorded. First of all, in this law in the first reading we discussed on 12.3., it was a week before the earthquake in the City of Zagreb and it was practically a week before the introduction of these epidemiological measures when practically the whole of the Republic of Croatia stopped, then all the representatives of the clubs had the opportunity to warn what could possibly happen since some countries in our environment were already in deep isolation, as this financial sector of the Republic of Croatia is very important, and this is part of the non-banking financial sector of the insurance society. In fact, it was only the HDZ Club and something was said by a colleague named Lalovac at the SDP Club. So when something had to be said in advance, when it had to be warned of certain things then there was no. In these past two days, however, we have been aware of the fearsome ex-post senses of finance in this assembly. So, we spent about 40% more of the state budget yesterday and today and we spent one already once and a half times the CNB foreign reserve because it's a magic wand that can solve all the problems in the Republic of Croatia. Another thing I'm trying to say is, when you look at the structure of the insurance company's ownership, then you'll see that these are all private-owned societies. Now, when everyone's saying that private property is flexible, that private people agree, I honestly expected that this relationship between all Croatian banks and Leasing societies, and especially insurance companies, will be much more flexible and that they will react to certain things that have been hit by Croatian businessmen and Croatian citizens regardless of what it says in the law, regardless of what someone didn't say and it's logical if one car carrier doesn't use buses for two months, there's no risk of harm, so it would be both business and human and logical that someone said, and nothing has any special wisdom, let's extend the policy for those two months. And then we would clearly send a message to everyone that we are very aware of this situation and that we want each other's help. Another thing, some who offer rescue solutions would be very interesting to see if their insurance policy for cars and Casco insurance contains these provisions that they talk about because if you think something should be inside then the logical thing is that you won't sign that insurance contract because it doesn't protect you. But we also have to be aware of the fact that we're exercising the rights based on what we signed, and that's simply the facts we have to say. However, what I want here to say is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Ministry of Finance can say is that at this moment it makes maximum use of the full potential of the Republic of Croatia, the full financial potential of the Republic of Croatia on the one hand to respond and help the Croatian economy, to preserve jobs, to take certain social measures to facilitate the life of Croatian citizens and Croatian businessmen in these difficult moments, and that should be said when speaking here because why I mentioned this 12.3. and then there should be stories like this, it should be like this. And what happened? At the moment the virtual economy was blocked because of the epidemic, the government of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Finance reacted. We said it here on 12.3. that at the moment when it is necessary to react that the Ministry of Finance, based on its knowledge, will react based on its experience. Is that what happened? It happened. Did Croatian entrepreneurs get that salary of 3,250 kuna and before they hoped and perhaps there were some mistakes and failures, but we are from HDZ that the Prime Minister and Minister of Finance therefore warned us from the HDZ club all the time when the measures taken were mutually responsible. One side is the responsibility of those who give the means and on the other hand the responsibility of those who receive the funds because that is the only way we can be effective. So when we talk to this insurance company about their assets, it's not negligible at all, it's $42 billion. Their grossly charged premium is more than 10 billion kuna and it is for one Croatia and for that segment that they cover exceptional potential. How they will react or how they should react in the event of an earthquake in the City of Zagreb, it depends on who has the policy, and they could simply react in some situations and probably have helped Croatian citizens. So all of these changes that we are harmonising with EU directives are changes that are not a lot tangling Croatian citizens themselves, but changes that regulate the global functioning of this market for insurance companies. But I repeat, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has reacted under these conditions, those who could not accept it because in time they had not responded in these past days spent half of the Croatian budget and twice spent the CNB foreign reserves to solve all these problems. Therefore, the HDZ Club will... this Insurance Act and what my colleague Lalovac said and last time we agreed about licking companies, I think they had to react without anyone pushing them. Where it's obvious that what's on the lease isn't in operation, that it just automatically extends the deadline and I think that would make it easier for everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u207057	Thank you, Comrade Shuker. And the last debate I believe today about this point, since individual debates have disappeared... No, it's not, it's not. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Dear representative, ten minutes as well as anyone, colleague Stephen Curry in front of the Club of Representatives of the CNS.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u207058	Thank you, Vice President. Then I'll be very brief. Dear representatives of the promoters, colleagues and colleagues. So, I don't think I'm repeating the HNS club will support these amendments to the law, first and foremost, the work of insurance companies, and as regards the necessary minimum calculation of the minimum capital, the conditions for companies to qualify as their own small companies. And what is more important is that they bring the risks involved, by equating the application of the insurance law and the Directive to replace Kunski amounts in euro, of course, by citing all the recalculations in the counter-value of the CNB mid-rate, etc., so some other bilateral agreements, and more or less all of the first reading which is acceptable and this difference and the new article that we added to the first reading, first of all, and the current situation, we absolutely welcome it. What I wanted to take advantage of was this opportunity to draw attention to one by one illogicality in determining premiums of car insurance specifically optional or to Kasko car insurance, namely the current insurance situation exists that they estimate the premium based on the purchase value of the vehicle. So a vehicle either 10 years old or 1 year premium is determined based on the purchase value of a vehicle that can be 200,000 kuna, for example. If the car is five years old, let's say it has an estimated value of 70. However, in the case of a policy activation, they do not count the price purchased but estimated. So if the total damage is estimated they pay you about 50,000 kuna, and you pay the insurance like for 200. So you pay the premium as a new car, so it's the same premium of a car one day and a car a thousand days old or five thousand days old if the premium is calculated based on the purchase value of a vehicle. The cost of repairing one, the cost of repairing another might be the same because parts are parts, they can still figure it out, but when it's estimated, and they have more or less when it's a little bit more damage then they usually estimate it on the total, so they give you the estimated value of the vehicle by some table, and then it's not the same, can it not be the same then? You pay like it's new, and then you judge me as new, but no. So basically this is the way to calculate and these tables are also the favorite of the insurance companies themselves. Not to talk about all those tensions that people are going through, confessing, is, isn't, how much, do repairs, so they give you something so you fix it yourself, or they pay you for repairs, and I say, the worst happens when you estimate total damage even if it can be fixed, but it always evaluates you, and of course nobody works on its own. And all right, I can understand it, and they have to live on something. Although they live well, by the way, to be clear. And they wouldn't live so well that more people don't pay more than they use it, but that's the meaning of insurance, evil shouldn't and that's a little more developed that culture today would have more secure people here, both from earthquakes and from other things, so we should also think about such a way. But this part is very illogical to me, and here I have to say, I don't know if we can legally intervene in it, but if you're looking at the estimated value, then you should look at it in one segment of the part and at the premiums themselves, because it's illogical that you're paying the same premium for a 10-year-old car and a car a year-old or a new cash car, if their purchase value was the same. So it doesn't make sense to me because it's not equally estimated their value in the event of total damage. Here, thank you. Once again, the HNS Club will accept this.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u207059	Thank you. Here, we've exhausted the debate with this. ... Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm concluding a debate on these two points, and we'll vote on them when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u207060	Final proposal of the Law implementing EU Regulation 2017/2402 laying down a general framework for securitisation on the establishment of a specific framework for simple, transparent and standardised securitisation, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 857. The promoter is the Government, and the debate is closed, and I am voting on the final proposal of the Law. Please, let's vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? I find that most of the votes we have stated the law, there were 107 for, 6 abstentions and 1 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u207061	The next item is: - Final proposal of the Law amending the Free Zones Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 948; Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia under Article. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia 172 Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When setting up the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal according to an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation The Rules of Procedure, the emergency procedure shall unite the first and second readings, and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs and the Committee on Economic Affairs. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Dear Secretary of State Zdenko Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u207062	The Honorable Mr. Chairman, the Honorable MPs and MPs. The Government of the Republic of Croatia presents the Croatian Parliament the Final Proposal for a Law amending the Free Zones Act. The Free Zones Act regulates the issue of establishing and operating free zones in the Republic of Croatia on which the Government of the Republic of Croatia submits an annual report to HS. From... Data on business in free zones, according to the latest report submitted to HS in the free zones, were carried out by 89 companies with a total of 2885 employees. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Total company revenues in the free zones amounted to 1.97 billion kuna. The total profit of the companies in the free zones was 150.45 million kuna, while the share of exports in the income of the users of the zone amounted to 51.1%. The free zones system in the Republic of Croatia has been established since the early 1990s with the primary aim of strengthening the export potential of the Croatian economy and during the entire period since the establishment of the system to date is a strong instrument for the economic policy of the Republic of Croatia. In order to preserve the Free Zones Institute, these amendments to the Free Zones Act want to contribute to the improvement of the economic environment through the abolition of the obligation to pay concessions for the establishment of free zones. The business of free zones in 2018 resulted in an obligation to pay concessions for the establishment of free zones for land free zones totalling 581 190 kuna. Of this amount, 50% represents the revenue of the Republic of Croatia's budget and 50% of the income of the budget of the unit of local self-government in which the free zone is located. In addition to this contribution to improving the economic environment, amendments to the Free Zones Act are also proposed for the following reasons. The entry of the Republic of Croatia into the EU has permanently diminished the attractiveness of the Free Zones Institute in terms of the tax and customs exteriority of these areas. On the other hand, there are also recent adverse market conditions caused by the coronary epidemic. The Government of the Republic of Croatia considers that the suspension of the obligation to pay concessions for the establishment of free zones gives an incentive to preserve the economic activity of the company, the beneficiary of concessions for the establishment of free zones and the companies of the users of the free zones, as well as to preserve jobs in those companies. Following the above, the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes to adopt the Law amending the Free Zones Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u207063	Does the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it? There isn't. Then I'm opening a debate. The first to come to the debate came the Honorable Representative Miro Bulj, the Club of Representatives of the Mosta, who is missing, is losing his right. The second representative is Hrvoje Zekanovic, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns, and he is not, too, losing his right. As well as the next representative, distinguished representative Tomislav Klaric, club of representatives of HDZ, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u207064	... At home, we discussed and held a debate on the report on the business of free zones operating in the region of the Republic of Croatia for 2018. Since today, less than 7 months is again on the agenda of free zones in the Republic of Croatia, this time on the subject of amendments and addition of the Law on Free Zones, on which we could hear the State Secretary in the opening speech, it is worth recalling the data that best speak about what they are free zones and how they operate. [[Specially enabled.]] So, according to real data, up until last year, 89 users acted on the territory of the Republic of Croatia in free zones. These users hired 2885 workers, the total income achieved was 1.97 billion kuna, which was 9.32% more than the previous year. At the level of all free zones, a profit of 150 million kuna was achieved, which was 35.74% higher. In this data, it is important to stress that the share of exports in total revenue was 51.1% while in port activities exports were 76%, and in the land part they accounted for only 20%. This is important to highlight and emphasize because, in the opening report, we have an example of the business zone of Kukuljanovo and Škrljevo practically in the area of the town of Bakar which both should have acted in the free zone regime. One that monitored the port activities of Skriljevo, it continues to operate in the regime. Another for which there was no interest of economic operators has since this year ceased to exist in the free zone regime but continues normally in the business regime as well as in all other business entities in the area. I point out this because by entering the EU, the Republic of Croatia has experienced a certain change in this part of the business way, and the very attractiveness of business zones and business in the free zone regime has ceased to be as great as it was before we were a member of the EU. This also suggests that the delivery of goods to the EU market and free zones amounted to more than one billion kuna and there was an apparent growth of 4.33% higher than a year earlier. It is evident from all of this that the zones were attractive or attractive to entrepreneurs precisely those who operate with third countries. And before I go to the only problem of amending and supplementing this law, it is important to stress here in an honorable home and that the Croatian public knows how much concern the Ministry of Economy and the Government of the Republic of Croatia has at all about the economy and entrepreneurship in the whole of this area. Namely, we are already in 2018. amending and supplementing the Law on Entrepreneurship Infrastructure of the Free Zone put them in that regime and placed them in some rank of development agencies, entrepreneurship centres, entrepreneurial incubators, entrepreneurial accelerators. And this shows that the government of the Republic of Croatia, a resorient economy, has been very much monitoring the work and finding models of ways to make it easier for the economy, but also incentivising the economic momentum. It is important to emphasise, what I just said, once again, that the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the EU has narrowed the space for entrepreneurs, directed their business in the free zone regime to countries outside the EU. Therefore, the intensity of these amendments and the addition of the laws relating to the reduction, the reduction of costs or the elimination of the payment of concession fees for the establishment of free zones shall be. How many were they? So, according to the report we adopted several months ago, the obligation to pay the concession fee was 581.190.94 kn. This amount was divided into 50% as the revenue of the national budget of the Republic of Croatia, 50% of the revenues of JLS and cities and municipalities in the area where they were located. So, these changes, what's going on? These changes happen that these fees are abolished and practical business in free zones for entrepreneurs will be in this part free of charge. Events around the pandemic of the last months that we are all aware of, we are witnessing that regular economic activity has been disrupted, not only in the Republic of Croatia but globally and globally. We know and we are already aware that it will also cause economic damage, so that it will be as small as possible, and they are very commendable, no matter how small they may have been at some point. When we look at the fact that, in addition to these measures of exemption from the payment of concession fee, many cities and municipalities, municipalities in the Republic of Croatia have made decisions either on the postponement or on the full exemption of the payment of municipal compensation for companies which have ceased to operate by decision of the headquarters or 50% of the reduction in payment of those duties for those companies which are difficult to operate, with all those other measures that have been taken in the past very short period, they are further strengthened and the HDZ Representatives' Club will support this amendment and the addition of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u207065	Thank you. The next debate, a single distinguished representative of Gordan Maras, is missing, losing his right. Next distinguished representative Ivan Domagoj Milosevic, individual debate, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u207066	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I also thank my colleague Klaric, this one on behalf of the HDZ Club, given that he is one of the best examples of how much they make sense of the free zone and how useful free zones can be. Of course, I support the fact that the Ministry of Economy reacted quickly and adequately with this proposal in view of the crisis and recession that is yet to come. I have to say, I have two, two things to say. One is, therefore, these free zones really have different effects throughout Croatia in certain parts of Croatia, as I said, depending on the mayors, mayors, but of course also on microlocation and in general on the environment in terms of how much space is taken, how much labour is available and what workforce and for which sector. And secondly, I think that these are free zones in general given the decline in tourism that we expect one of the solutions and ways that we can return and speed up and recover. In fact, what's quite certain is that while we've been talking here for the past month, two days are changing worldwide supply chains, suppliers are changing, customers are finding new suppliers, and I don't think the general world over the year, two days in the commercial sense is going to look the same. Since we are a full member and a respected member of the EU, then I think that for our industry, whatever it is right now, there are plenty of opportunities within the EU, especially in the processing industry, and I think that the Ministry of Economy has a key task because the two key definitions of the Ministry of Economy are industry and trade, this is all left in other ministries. So, given that you are in charge of entrepreneurship, but also industry and trade, then I think it's a kind of short-term opportunity to help our medium and small companies, in general the processing industry and production to impose itself primarily on that EU market in the fight for buyers, in the fight for the replacement of these supply chains that I think, above all, the Chinese will pay the highest price there and hopefully pay it honestly, because for the past 10, 20 years China has stolen both intellectual property and non-transparently subsidized its producers, workers more or less can be held as slaves in China, I don't think it't have any market match either global, nor local, nor here in Europe. Therefore, I think Brussels should do much more than it has done so far to ensure fair market conditions for its own producers, and thus for our Croatians, and it will depend on us how quickly our producers will be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u207067	Thank you. We have one replica of Honorable Agent Ante Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u207068	Thank you, Vice President HS. You mentioned new market conditions that are currently in place, and we also know that Croatian free zones have lost little of their only attractiveness as well as their functionality as well as their own. So I'm interested in your opinion, just as normal as it is through politics, but as an entrepreneur, whether these free zones can be transformed towards other countries, that is. how do we find them an adequate function now that we see and through the very report that a few of them have filed a request for self-containment and the liquidation of the same? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u207069	Replicate response, distinguished Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u207070	Thank you, Comrade Bacic. And look, I said in my debate, which is that in different parts of Croatia there are different educational people, different market forces that are necessary to start some kind of production process. In that sense, we are not so big that we could not literally look at the county and city levels where and how it can succeed. Unfortunately, next year the labour market will be different, so over the past few years in full conjuncture and thank God unemployment has really fallen to a minimum, now it will increase. On the other hand, relatively unlike many other Eastern European countries, we have attracted a little foreign investment in the so-called so-called ‘EU’. Greenfield projects, which is that the meadows make production halls and so on, that's what I think we're particularly missing, and there's a fellow Lucic who's put a lot of effort into changing it over the past years.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u207071	Thank you. Next individual debate, distinguished representative Ante Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u207072	Thank you, Vice President. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The final proposal of the Law amending the Free Zones Act is before us, something we heard from the Secretary of State and from colleagues who have been dealing with this matter since the year '96 and all amendments and additions to this law regarding the free zones, but also from the very report that we recently adopted in the 2018 HS regarding the business of the free zones, where we saw about the ratio of export revenues that occurred across the free zones, normal and number of concessionaries themselves, but also the ways in which these 50% of the local communities paid for themselves, 50% of the RH themselves. In the report itself, we saw from 2018 that out of 11 free zones in the Republic of Croatia, 8. We have seen that some of what I have also mentioned in the replica, have requested the very process of liquidating the closure of companies and in the year 2018 of concession fees, a figure of 581 000 kuna has been determined. We also see new conditions of business caused by the corona virus, but also the most severe circumstance of free zones themselves and the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the EU when normally free zones must transform their self-presence, but also lose certain self-attractiveness. But we know that they were both the incubator and the most important part for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, especially those that were directed at the most productive activities, but also at exports themselves. It is good that only the Ministry, but the Government of the Republic of Croatia is following the situation and it is going in the direction of this law which is one of the only changes, and this refers to the abolition of the self-requirement to pay for concessions for the establishment of free zones, which I think is very good to follow the trend, but also to the economic situation, so that it should definitely be commended both in this way and in all the other and these measures that we have seen that have been taken to make the most of the situation easier in these times for Croatian entrepreneurs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u207073	Thank you. Replica. Replica esteemed representative Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u207074	Here's my colleague Babic, you mentioned the number of free zones operating in the Republic of Croatia. The number itself is not so important, let's say one great Germany has fewer, fewer free zones than the RH itself. The second part, the second part relating to the regime or benefits that entrepreneurs have in those zones, is important. Therefore, the very liquidation of the zone in that sense will be in the free zone regime or not, had or did not benefit, has no direct impact on the business of the user himself because the user is not a free zone but is the user of the free zone who uses those benefits within the free zone. And yet I point out the importance of our geostrategic position, where data reports show that these ports-related areas have 75% stakes in business unlike land-based areas that have only 20. And that's a good guideline in which we should go because we've become practically a global village.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u207075	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u207076	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague Klaric, thank you for this replica, I agree with you. Normally, before you a fellow Milosevic mentioned this in relation to normal in the Republic of Croatia certain areas and the very segmentation of what a particular area needs, but normally related to every entrepreneur who has operated across free zones that we should view only him and not the free zone itself as such. It's a good thing you mentioned that here's 2/3 of the revenue itself is actually free zones that are tied to ports and I think that's exactly the future of this topic that we're talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u207077	Thank you. And finally on behalf of the ministry, state secretary Zdenko Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u207078	I would like to thank Mr. Chairman, distinguished MPs and MPs. There was one amendment to the Legislative Committee, which is nomotechnical in nature. The Government of the Republic of Croatia accepts the amendment in question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u207079	Thank you. We've exhausted the debate with this. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u207080	Final proposal of the Law amending the Free Zones Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 948. The motion is Government, the debate is closed. During the debate, the proposer's representative accepted the amendment of the Legislative Committee and became an integral part of the final proposal of the Law. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law amending the Free Zones Act. Please, let's vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? I find that most of the votes 108 for and 1 abstentions have been passed by the Law amending the Free Zones Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u207081	The next item is: - Final proposal of the Law amending the Free Zones Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 948; Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia under Article. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia 172 Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When setting up the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal according to an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation The Rules of Procedure, the emergency procedure shall unite the first and second readings, and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs and the Committee on Economic Affairs. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Dear Secretary of State Zdenko Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u207082	The Honorable Mr. Chairman, the Honorable MPs and MPs. The Government of the Republic of Croatia presents the Croatian Parliament the Final Proposal for a Law amending the Free Zones Act. The Free Zones Act regulates the issue of establishing and operating free zones in the Republic of Croatia on which the Government of the Republic of Croatia submits an annual report to HS. From... Data on business in free zones, according to the latest report submitted to HS in the free zones, were carried out by 89 companies with a total of 2885 employees. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Total company revenues in the free zones amounted to 1.97 billion kuna. The total profit of the companies in the free zones was 150.45 million kuna, while the share of exports in the income of the users of the zone amounted to 51.1%. The free zones system in the Republic of Croatia has been established since the early 1990s with the primary aim of strengthening the export potential of the Croatian economy and during the entire period since the establishment of the system to date is a strong instrument for the economic policy of the Republic of Croatia. In order to preserve the Free Zones Institute, these amendments to the Free Zones Act want to contribute to the improvement of the economic environment through the abolition of the obligation to pay concessions for the establishment of free zones. The business of free zones in 2018 resulted in an obligation to pay concessions for the establishment of free zones for land free zones totalling 581 190 kuna. Of this amount, 50% represents the revenue of the Republic of Croatia's budget and 50% of the income of the budget of the unit of local self-government in which the free zone is located. In addition to this contribution to improving the economic environment, amendments to the Free Zones Act are also proposed for the following reasons. The entry of the Republic of Croatia into the EU has permanently diminished the attractiveness of the Free Zones Institute in terms of the tax and customs exteriority of these areas. On the other hand, there are also recent adverse market conditions caused by the coronary epidemic. The Government of the Republic of Croatia considers that the suspension of the obligation to pay concessions for the establishment of free zones gives an incentive to preserve the economic activity of the company, the beneficiary of concessions for the establishment of free zones and the companies of the users of the free zones, as well as to preserve jobs in those companies. Following the above, the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes to adopt the Law amending the Free Zones Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u207083	Does the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it? There isn't. Then I'm opening a debate. The first to come to the debate came the Honorable Representative Miro Bulj, the Club of Representatives of the Mosta, who is missing, is losing his right. The second representative is Hrvoje Zekanovic, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns, and he is not, too, losing his right. As well as the next representative, distinguished representative Tomislav Klaric, club of representatives of HDZ, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u207084	... At home, we discussed and held a debate on the report on the business of free zones operating in the region of the Republic of Croatia for 2018. Since today, less than 7 months is again on the agenda of free zones in the Republic of Croatia, this time on the subject of amendments and addition of the Law on Free Zones, on which we could hear the State Secretary in the opening speech, it is worth recalling the data that best speak about what they are free zones and how they operate. [[Specially enabled.]] So, according to real data, up until last year, 89 users acted on the territory of the Republic of Croatia in free zones. These users hired 2885 workers, the total income achieved was 1.97 billion kuna, which was 9.32% more than the previous year. At the level of all free zones, a profit of 150 million kuna was achieved, which was 35.74% higher. In this data, it is important to stress that the share of exports in total revenue was 51.1% while in port activities exports were 76%, and in the land part they accounted for only 20%. This is important to highlight and emphasize because, in the opening report, we have an example of the business zone of Kukuljanovo and Škrljevo practically in the area of the town of Bakar which both should have acted in the free zone regime. One that monitored the port activities of Skriljevo, it continues to operate in the regime. Another for which there was no interest of economic operators has since this year ceased to exist in the free zone regime but continues normally in the business regime as well as in all other business entities in the area. I point out this because by entering the EU, the Republic of Croatia has experienced a certain change in this part of the business way, and the very attractiveness of business zones and business in the free zone regime has ceased to be as great as it was before we were a member of the EU. This also suggests that the delivery of goods to the EU market and free zones amounted to more than one billion kuna and there was an apparent growth of 4.33% higher than a year earlier. It is evident from all of this that the zones were attractive or attractive to entrepreneurs precisely those who operate with third countries. And before I go to the only problem of amending and supplementing this law, it is important to stress here in an honorable home and that the Croatian public knows how much concern the Ministry of Economy and the Government of the Republic of Croatia has at all about the economy and entrepreneurship in the whole of this area. Namely, we are already in 2018. amending and supplementing the Law on Entrepreneurship Infrastructure of the Free Zone put them in that regime and placed them in some rank of development agencies, entrepreneurship centres, entrepreneurial incubators, entrepreneurial accelerators. And this shows that the government of the Republic of Croatia, a resorient economy, has been very much monitoring the work and finding models of ways to make it easier for the economy, but also incentivising the economic momentum. It is important to emphasise, what I just said, once again, that the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the EU has narrowed the space for entrepreneurs, directed their business in the free zone regime to countries outside the EU. Therefore, the intensity of these amendments and the addition of the laws relating to the reduction, the reduction of costs or the elimination of the payment of concession fees for the establishment of free zones shall be. How many were they? So, according to the report we adopted several months ago, the obligation to pay the concession fee was 581.190.94 kn. This amount was divided into 50% as the revenue of the national budget of the Republic of Croatia, 50% of the revenues of JLS and cities and municipalities in the area where they were located. So, these changes, what's going on? These changes happen that these fees are abolished and practical business in free zones for entrepreneurs will be in this part free of charge. Events around the pandemic of the last months that we are all aware of, we are witnessing that regular economic activity has been disrupted, not only in the Republic of Croatia but globally and globally. We know and we are already aware that it will also cause economic damage, so that it will be as small as possible, and they are very commendable, no matter how small they may have been at some point. When we look at the fact that, in addition to these measures of exemption from the payment of concession fee, many cities and municipalities, municipalities in the Republic of Croatia have made decisions either on the postponement or on the full exemption of the payment of municipal compensation for companies which have ceased to operate by decision of the headquarters or 50% of the reduction in payment of those duties for those companies which are difficult to operate, with all those other measures that have been taken in the past very short period, they are further strengthened and the HDZ Representatives' Club will support this amendment and the addition of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u207085	Thank you. The next debate, a single distinguished representative of Gordan Maras, is missing, losing his right. Next distinguished representative Ivan Domagoj Milosevic, individual debate, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u207086	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I also thank my colleague Klaric, this one on behalf of the HDZ Club, given that he is one of the best examples of how much they make sense of the free zone and how useful free zones can be. Of course, I support the fact that the Ministry of Economy reacted quickly and adequately with this proposal in view of the crisis and recession that is yet to come. I have to say, I have two, two things to say. One is, therefore, these free zones really have different effects throughout Croatia in certain parts of Croatia, as I said, depending on the mayors, mayors, but of course also on microlocation and in general on the environment in terms of how much space is taken, how much labour is available and what workforce and for which sector. And secondly, I think that these are free zones in general given the decline in tourism that we expect one of the solutions and ways that we can return and speed up and recover. In fact, what's quite certain is that while we've been talking here for the past month, two days are changing worldwide supply chains, suppliers are changing, customers are finding new suppliers, and I don't think the general world over the year, two days in the commercial sense is going to look the same. Since we are a full member and a respected member of the EU, then I think that for our industry, whatever it is right now, there are plenty of opportunities within the EU, especially in the processing industry, and I think that the Ministry of Economy has a key task because the two key definitions of the Ministry of Economy are industry and trade, this is all left in other ministries. So, given that you are in charge of entrepreneurship, but also industry and trade, then I think it's a kind of short-term opportunity to help our medium and small companies, in general the processing industry and production to impose itself primarily on that EU market in the fight for buyers, in the fight for the replacement of these supply chains that I think, above all, the Chinese will pay the highest price there and hopefully pay it honestly, because for the past 10, 20 years China has stolen both intellectual property and non-transparently subsidized its producers, workers more or less can be held as slaves in China, I don't think it't have any market match either global, nor local, nor here in Europe. Therefore, I think Brussels should do much more than it has done so far to ensure fair market conditions for its own producers, and thus for our Croatians, and it will depend on us how quickly our producers will be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u207087	Thank you. We have one replica of Honorable Agent Ante Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u207088	Thank you, Vice President HS. You mentioned new market conditions that are currently in place, and we also know that Croatian free zones have lost little of their only attractiveness as well as their functionality as well as their own. So I'm interested in your opinion, just as normal as it is through politics, but as an entrepreneur, whether these free zones can be transformed towards other countries, that is. how do we find them an adequate function now that we see and through the very report that a few of them have filed a request for self-containment and the liquidation of the same? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u207089	Replicate response, distinguished Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u207090	Thank you, Comrade Bacic. And look, I said in my debate, which is that in different parts of Croatia there are different educational people, different market forces that are necessary to start some kind of production process. In that sense, we are not so big that we could not literally look at the county and city levels where and how it can succeed. Unfortunately, next year the labour market will be different, so over the past few years in full conjuncture and thank God unemployment has really fallen to a minimum, now it will increase. On the other hand, relatively unlike many other Eastern European countries, we have attracted a little foreign investment in the so-called so-called ‘EU’. Greenfield projects, which is that the meadows make production halls and so on, that's what I think we're particularly missing, and there's a fellow Lucic who's put a lot of effort into changing it over the past years.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u207091	Thank you. Next individual debate, distinguished representative Ante Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u207092	Thank you, Vice President. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The final proposal of the Law amending the Free Zones Act is before us, something we heard from the Secretary of State and from colleagues who have been dealing with this matter since the year '96 and all amendments and additions to this law regarding the free zones, but also from the very report that we recently adopted in the 2018 HS regarding the business of the free zones, where we saw about the ratio of export revenues that occurred across the free zones, normal and number of concessionaries themselves, but also the ways in which these 50% of the local communities paid for themselves, 50% of the RH themselves. In the report itself, we saw from 2018 that out of 11 free zones in the Republic of Croatia, 8. We have seen that some of what I have also mentioned in the replica, have requested the very process of liquidating the closure of companies and in the year 2018 of concession fees, a figure of 581 000 kuna has been determined. We also see new conditions of business caused by the corona virus, but also the most severe circumstance of free zones themselves and the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the EU when normally free zones must transform their self-presence, but also lose certain self-attractiveness. But we know that they were both the incubator and the most important part for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, especially those that were directed at the most productive activities, but also at exports themselves. It is good that only the Ministry, but the Government of the Republic of Croatia is following the situation and it is going in the direction of this law which is one of the only changes, and this refers to the abolition of the self-requirement to pay for concessions for the establishment of free zones, which I think is very good to follow the trend, but also to the economic situation, so that it should definitely be commended both in this way and in all the other and these measures that we have seen that have been taken to make the most of the situation easier in these times for Croatian entrepreneurs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u207093	Thank you. Replica. Replica esteemed representative Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u207094	Here's my colleague Babic, you mentioned the number of free zones operating in the Republic of Croatia. The number itself is not so important, let's say one great Germany has fewer, fewer free zones than the RH itself. The second part, the second part relating to the regime or benefits that entrepreneurs have in those zones, is important. Therefore, the very liquidation of the zone in that sense will be in the free zone regime or not, had or did not benefit, has no direct impact on the business of the user himself because the user is not a free zone but is the user of the free zone who uses those benefits within the free zone. And yet I point out the importance of our geostrategic position, where data reports show that these ports-related areas have 75% stakes in business unlike land-based areas that have only 20. And that's a good guideline in which we should go because we've become practically a global village.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u207095	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u207096	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague Klaric, thank you for this replica, I agree with you. Normally, before you a fellow Milosevic mentioned this in relation to normal in the Republic of Croatia certain areas and the very segmentation of what a particular area needs, but normally related to every entrepreneur who has operated across free zones that we should view only him and not the free zone itself as such. It's a good thing you mentioned that here's 2/3 of the revenue itself is actually free zones that are tied to ports and I think that's exactly the future of this topic that we're talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u207097	Thank you. And finally on behalf of the ministry, state secretary Zdenko Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u207098	I would like to thank Mr. Chairman, distinguished MPs and MPs. There was one amendment to the Legislative Committee, which is nomotechnical in nature. The Government of the Republic of Croatia accepts the amendment in question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u207099	Thank you. We've exhausted the debate with this. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-13-0.u207100	Final proposal of the Law amending the Free Zones Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 948. The motion is Government, the debate is closed. During the debate, the proposer's representative accepted the amendment of the Legislative Committee and became an integral part of the final proposal of the Law. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law amending the Free Zones Act. Please, let's vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? I find that most of the votes 108 for and 1 abstentions have been passed by the Law amending the Free Zones Act.
