ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195392	Thank you very much, Mr. President. At a meeting held on 12 March 2020, the Government of the Republic of Croatia decided to call early elections for the City Council of Orahovica and the Municipal Council of the Island Municipality on Sunday 19 April 2020 for election day. After these elections were called in the Republic of Croatia, special circumstances caused by the outbreak of the coronary virus and an emergency situation that could not have been predicted, as no specific circumstances could be predicted which could arise for different reasons, nor could all such situations be regulated by laws. Thus, at the time of the opening of those early elections and the appointment of the day of their implementation, it was not possible to predict the state of play and the time when elections would take place, at the time when elections should be held. The Government therefore assessed the necessary measures, in particular to protect the population, which will ultimately ensure the legal implementation of the early local elections. The current Law on Local Elections stipulates that early elections for members of representative bodies whose term of office has ceased due to the disbandment, as well as early elections for the municipal head, mayor and mayor, early elections for members of the representative body and for the municipal head, mayor or mayor in the event of the simultaneous disbandment of the representative body and the resolution of the executive body and early elections for deputy members of national minorities shall be held within 90 days of the date of disbandment. This law lays down a legal basis on the basis of which the Government of the Republic of Croatia will be empowered to decide in the event of a special situation to postpone the early elections or to put aside the decision already taken to call early elections which should take place at the time of the specific circumstances. Specific circumstances are defined as circumstances involving an event or a certain situation which could not be predicted and which could not be affected, which currently threaten the legal order, life, safety and health of the population and property of greater value. It is also now regulated that the deadlines prescribed by the applicable law in the event of special circumstances the early election will be held at the end of the special circumstances and no later than 90 days after the day of termination of those circumstances. By taking effect on this Act, the Government of the Republic of Croatia will allow the Government of the Republic of Croatia to take a decision that calls for early elections for the City Council of the City of Orahovica and the Municipal Council of the Municipality of Island, so that these elections are held at a time when the threat to the health of citizens ceases, or when special circumstances cease. The Croatian Parliament therefore proposes the adoption of this law in an emergency procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195393	I thank the minister. Ministers stay here because there will be replicas now, so you have that chair, feel free to sit down. Can I get a list of replicas? Thank you. We've got five replicas. He's the first fellow Bull. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195394	Thank you very much. Ministers, this government will be remembered as the gravestones of a referendum initiative that the people have decided to collect where they were being dealt with and these things so you can't predict these situations. Of course it's not intended for the virus, but there is if you heard an electronic, electronic vote or a correspondence vote. If you had accepted the referendum, if the people had voted, or if you had given what MOST independent lists had been in the process for a year, if you had given the debate, today people in the municipality of Island of Sinj, Dalmatian and Orahovici could vote electronically. But you've done everything that way not to vote. So while you're calling for citizens to be monitored via cell phones, you say in the Republic of Croatia, you say there was no possibility that this situation could not have been predicted. That's why I call on you to take the law much more seriously, now that it's a situation like this, and that's an electronic and correspondence vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195395	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195396	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Bulj, here I would stick to this situation in which we have now found ourselves, so early elections for the City Council of Orahovica and the City Council of the Island Municipality have been called and the situation surrounding the Coronary Virus has been found, and the Government has referred this bill to the parliamentary procedure, so to allow the election to be maintained when conditions are met. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195397	Second replica, dear colleague Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195398	Dear Minister Malenica, we understand that there has been an extraordinary situation that no one could have predicted the epidemic, could not have predicted but was a little ignored, your ministry is at least wrong, but now you have one lesson, and soon we have parliamentary elections and regular local elections. So, you have plenty of time to prepare the state to vote electronically, because it may happen to us soon, so that is the 9th month if it is regular, and there may be some earlier parliamentary elections. So, try within your ministry to enable all citizens of our country to vote electronically and not only in Croatia but also those who have the right to vote and live abroad because they have gone because of some, by force of opportunity abroad. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195399	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195400	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Zekanovic, in this situation where we have now found ourselves, I would be perhaps more optimistic and say that in a few months, we will overcome this situation now where we are and that we will regularly go to parliamentary and local elections next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195401	The third replica of the esteemed colleague, Sagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195402	Thank you, Mr. President. The Honorable Ministers. Two key changes related to local self-government in the election law took place more than 10 years ago when the institution of direct selection of municipal mayors, mayors and mayors and other changes were introduced several years ago when so-called. Lex Sheriff. However, we have now come to a paradoxical situation, it is justified to ask for elections for the City Council of Orahovica to be extended until the crisis is over, but one of the city council's responsibilities is civil protection. Now we come to a paradoxical situation, we can happen to the town of Orahovica, and who and the Municipality of Island even to the next regular local elections, and we don't know the extent of when this crisis will end, that they don't have a representative body. It's something we have to think about. The city or municipality should not be without a representative body, it may be necessary to amend the provision to disband the council or to disband the previous council only by establishing a new council.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195403	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195404	Thank you very much. Your Honor. So that's your proposal, so it refers to something that isn't related to today's bill. We are here to presently through this bill we wanted to resolve the situation relating to the already scheduled elections that were to be held on 19 April, and we will certainly follow the development of the situation and make spot-based decisions and proposals for the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195405	Let's go. Now it's time to go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195406	Mr. Minister. None of us can be sure how long this epidemic will last, whether it's a few months or a lot longer, we can't guess. But what you are now suggesting is that, for an indefinite period of time, the right to a representative body that has citizens in every municipality and city in the Republic of Croatia is actually suspended. For an indefinite period of time, however, this situation is in the city and will be managed by the government's commissioner, a government official. As far as I know, even in the city of Orahovica, it was a person who was also your HDZ party official. So, for months who knows and maybe a year, maybe even until the next local elections we'll have one of your official's officers there to replace the citizens with their constitutional right to a representative body and there's a big mistake. You were supposed to cancel the appointment of the commissioner and leave the council in this situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195407	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195408	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. Podolnjak. So the government made a decision on disbanding the representative body, so from the beginning of this year and on the basis of that decision, it decided on 12 March to call elections in the best way possible to hold these elections. As regards the Commissioner in the town of Orahovica, it is therefore a person who has been a longtime head of the State Administration's office and has all the knowledge and experience necessary to act as the Commissioner/author of the Government to carry out the tasks of the representative body. So in that part, we are not at all questioning either representative democracy, but simply the situation in which we are and the decisions made by the Civil Protection Staff are affecting the holding of elections and therefore representative democracy, but I hope that we will hold elections immediately after the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195409	Thank you. Now it's Comrade Batinic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195410	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister. Here you have heard a number of suggestions for thinking from practice, I believe that in the next changes you'll respect some. In fact, there's one question here, what at the moment when the commissioner is in charge of the city? So either the city or the municipality didn't make their budget, so it's going to temporary funding. We are in this crisis that will become an economic crisis, and we know very well that it is a very small maneuvering space of Commissioners in the functioning of local self-government. I would not like as much as anyone here to continue this crisis and in the fall don't give God in the coming year, the question arises how they and the kindergarten users will function under these circumstances. You have on one side the mayor and the mayor who practically doesn't have any authority. So it might be good to consider amending the Law on Local Self - Management in this section.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195411	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195412	Thank you very much. Your Honor. So the town of Orahovica, as well as the Municipality of the Island, has the elected mayor, or elected mayor, who, according to special regulations, can make decisions, and among these decisions are those of financial character, so I have no doubt that in this short time until elections are held, they will make quality decisions and those concerning this situation regarding the crown of the virus in which we are all together today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195413	Now it's time for the esteemed coat of arms. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195414	Thank you. Dear Mr. President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Election law is a constitutional category, a right to local self-government that citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia also have. So in the case in question, we have two constitutional categories of two constitutional rights that are limited by this law. And what do they limit themselves for? They are limited because extraordinary circumstances have arisen that make it impossible for the elections to be held. The SDP representative club therefore asks for this law to be adopted in a manner prescribed by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which is in accordance with the Article. 17. So two-thirds majority. I will repeat, this limits two constitutional rights of citizens and citizens in a specific case of two municipalities and perhaps for a larger number. We can't accept that this is brought in by regular procedure because that's how we're going to open the door to the same procedure. try to apply to parliamentary and regular local elections. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195415	And the last replica, dear colleague of the Dark Taritash. Here you go. Excuse me, answer me. You want an answer? Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195416	Thank you. Dear Representative Grbin, I have repeatedly reiterated that we are aware of the situation in which we are simply based on the positive legislative rules governing the electoral procedure, based on the decisions of the electoral headquarters, it is not possible to hold these elections, so I hope that these circumstances, as mentioned in the bill itself, will soon cease and that one of the fundamental rights will be respected, which is the right to vote, so that citizens in the city of Orahovica and in the municipality of the Island will be able to choose their representatives in their representative body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195417	And now it's time for a respected colleague of the Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195418	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, therefore none of us could have predicted this situation with the coronary virus, and it is logical that we all have to adapt somehow, and define the laws in accordance with the given circumstances. So it's clear that you came with this, but what's not clear and that's next. You didn't answer your colleague's coat of arms, so I'm gonna do it again. So we at the GLAS Club absolutely think that this is a law that needs to be passed 2/3, it seems to us that they're moving a series of cowardly eggs in different laws that we're going to have a hard time getting rid of when we're going to get a normal life and work normal, but why didn't you already decide to define a provision that only lasts until the moment that the epidemic has passed? That would be a minimum of decency and that 2/3 of the way we bring this one amending and supplementing the law. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195419	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195420	Thank you very much. Dear MPs, therefore, we have clearly stated in this bill that there are special circumstances, we have not precisely defined it through the concept of epidemics, but through the termination of special circumstances because we consider this to be more appropriate for this regulation and for this situation where we are currently in place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195421	Thank you. So we've come to the end of the replica, now we're going to go to the club debate, first in line is the club of representatives of the Independent Lists, the esteemed colleague Robert Podolnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195422	Mr. President, honourable ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs.....to see if this is a 15-minute debate or 10 minutes debate.....is constantly changing on this display of ours. So this little law is actually extremely important. He has a few provisions that actually state that the government can and can postpone local elections that are premature in some municipalities and cities when legal conditions are met. However, the fact is that this intervention law indefinitely suspends the constitutional right of citizens to decide through their representative body on issues given to them by the Constitution and by individual laws. No matter how many times the minister has said that in a few months we will probably get through this epidemic, so the elections will be held, none of us can know that, and even the best experts can't be sure how long this epidemic will last, what the consequences will be, can it be re-activated, we can only guess at that. But the fact is that when this law is adopted that it will suspend the constitutional right of citizens to go to local elections, to choose their representative body which, according to the Constitution and which, according to the European Convention, the European Charter of Local Self-Government is the one by which citizens are represented and which it decides on their behalf. That's a fact. Of course, on the one hand, this law should be passed, but it should be passed 2/3 of the majority because it limits the essential constitutional rights of citizens. Why do you need to bring it? Because at the moment when the epidemic is an election cannot be held. It's not just a matter of our early local elections in just two local self-governments, it's also a fact in Europe. Therefore, parliamentary elections have been postponed in some countries, both Northern Macedonia and Serbia, in some other countries where they should be. Local elections have been postponed, so that's a fact. Referendums have been postponed if you want from Russia, Italy, etc., so it is not disputed. On the other hand, it is controversial that the adoption of this law by the minister is seen as a routine decision, a common law that we make as if the situation were regular. No, we would never have passed such a law if it wasn't extraordinary. We would not suspend the right of citizens to decide on the selection of members of the representative body if the situation were not extraordinary. And this law actually confirms it best. At a normal time, at a time where there is no epidemic, what you call special circumstances we would have spent the elections and you had to be aware of that I would not say at the moment when you were disbanding the city and municipal council and when you appointed Commissioners as civil servants who are now actually acting in office instead of councils and who, suddenly, can replace the council, unfortunately this is now a fact, you should have been aware of this and when you called a decision on early elections because you already knew that the epidemic was actually in full swing and that these elections would be impossible to implement. What we are proposing and what conclusion we are proposing to adopt is actually looking ahead at a situation that, in which we can no longer rule out that this epidemic will last us longer than we expect it might last all year, that it might reactivate in some COVID-21 next year, none of us can be more sure. We, in fact, as responsible legislators, must make sure that in such circumstances we have the answer and that we do not have to suspend the constitutional right of citizens to decide within a certain constitutional and legal time on the choice of their representatives or executive officials. I'll give you an example I've been reading these days. So in Germany they had local elections in the province of Bavaria and the first round of local elections was held in a classic way, the Germans can therefore also vote by letter, but of course also classically in the polling post. Meanwhile, the epidemic was waning and it was questionable what and how to conduct the second election round, so the mayor's choice in that second election round when none in the first round got an absolute majority, so the same system that we have. They had that second election round last week on 29rd. Yeah, the Germans spent it. You know how? Because they have made a decision to vote exclusively by means of a correspondence because they have such a legal option. They did not suspend the constitutional right of citizens and those provinces to decide on the election of their representatives and mayors, but only voted by letter. I watched just the election results in the largest city of Munchen of over a million and 100,000 voters, over 550,000 came out, wrongly just said, they didn't go out, they didn't go to the polls, they voted in a correspondence. Interestingly, more citizens voted in this correspondence than in a classic way two weeks earlier, just over 50%, 49% in the first round. It is possible and so it was done throughout the province, and Bavaria is far larger than the Republic of Croatia. It is possible not to suspend constitutional law. For several years at MOST, we have been making proposals, bill proposals, insisting on electronic and correspondence voting, we did not, of course, then think about extraordinary circumstances, epidemics etc., but we felt that this was a way in which we could provide citizens with better quality, better opportunities for voting rights. It is now shown, in fact, that we have rightly advocated the introduction of an electronic and correspondence vote for years. And that is why, through our conclusion to vote, we call on HS to reach that conclusion to oblige the Government to urgently approach the legislative changes and to work towards the introduction of an electronic and correspondence vote. There are good experiences. After all, they can go only to Bavaria, not far away and see how it is done in a country where it is possible to implement it, it works greatly, it protects the constitutional right of citizens and in such extreme circumstances. And finally, to answer the Minister, that you appointed a Commissioner in the City of Orahovica, but as much as I had the opportunity to read it is still about a person who is regardless of its quality and what is in the state office, the Office of State Administration that has acted and been high duties in the HDZ, that was also a deputy mayor in one mandate and in the City Council of the City of Virovitica, that was a member of the City Committee of the HDZ, the fact is that you would have a very party official who was or is still going to replace the City Council of the City of Oreshovica for an indefinite period, that there was a suspended constitutional right of citizens, and that it was a better solution that you actually abolished the decision to appoint the Commissioner and allowed this city council still to choose citizens, to decide on all these issues which impose these extraordinary circumstances, as we are sitting down in this situation, which could not have been a much more reliable solution, but could have been addressed, in a much more than the solution, which could be addressed to the city-based, and the budgets, Thank you. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195423	Comrade Grmoy, request for a break, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195424	Thank you. Your Honor, here's to the presentation of the Professor. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the MOST Club to consult on this bill because after I listened to it, I've been asked a few questions. First, this Law on Local Elections proposes to postpone early elections in our municipalities, cities and counties, and raises the question of whether we can expect a similar proposal to come about some other choices, for example. regular parliamentarys. So, if the government can't conduct under these conditions local elections how does it plan to conduct regular parliamentary elections? We have put forward a proposal and we demand and we have concluded the introduction of an electronic and correspondence vote, but you are persistently refusing to do so. Likewise, how can you suggest that such a law suspending the constitutional rights of our citizens be passed to ordinary rather than two-thirds of the laws suspending democracy and democratic elections? And thirdly, I'm interested in who in this country has declared the presence of special circumstances, which by decision and by what day does it precisely produce legal effects, and who, when and by what act, will declare the termination of these special circumstances? I was looking at this isolation and I was reading the National Journal, so I was looking for a decision declaring the circumstances, and I have to admit that I didn't run into such a decision, so I'm asking you to answer me, and here's the minister, and I see that my colleague Bacic was looking for a break, who declared it? You suspend democracy, you don't want to introduce an electronic and correspondence vote, and the question is, what are you going to do with the regular elections, and we at the club have to consult on this.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195425	I'll grant you a break. Here, colleague Bačić, you also asked for a break on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195426	Thank you, Mr. President. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, I am looking for a break in order to send a message within the club, but also a message to the public in the part where it tries to point out the unconstitutional nature of this law, and even worse so as to try to impute the HDZ or the ruling majority in the same way in the event of possible prolonging of parliamentary elections or elections for the Croatian Parliament. So, first of all, I want to say that this law is based on the Constitution in Article. 16th Croatian Constitution which says that "freedom and rights can only be limited by law to protect the freedom of other people's rights and legal order, public morality and health. Any restriction on freedom or right must be proportionate to the natural need for restriction in each case." So, the Croatian Parliament is based on Article. 16. The Republic of Croatia has the authority to suspend certain rights in the event of a threat to the health of the Republic of Croatia, so if you want the right to vote, that is, the right to local self-government and to conduct elections in local self-government. But the withdrawal of the parallel with the prolonging of elections for the Croatian Parliament is absolutely trendy and malicious. Why? Because the Croatian Constitution has provided for the possibility, and that is the case. The 77th Croatian Constitution which states that "the duration of the term of office of representatives in the Croatian Parliament may be extended by law only in the event of a war or in the cases referred to in Article. 17 and 101. The Constitution’. Art. 17. It clearly states how and how a decision can be made in the Croatian Parliament on the extension of the term of office to representatives in the Croatian Parliament. In any case, it's not this qualified majority of 76 hands, it's the two-thirds majority. Therefore, I think we should make it clear.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195427	Thank you. The apartment will be approved. Is anyone else picking up for a break? So we can do the new one for five minutes, but we're going to give it to 11.10. THE PURPOSE CONTINUE AFTER MEETING Dear colleagues and colleagues, we continue our work. Before that, I would like to congratulate our colleague, Arsen Bauk, who became the father of little Tara, so to little Tara and mother every good, all health, and to our Arsen as much happiness. Congratulations again. We are now going to a second debate, dear colleague Drazen Barisic on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195429	Thank you. Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, honourable MPs and MPs. I welcome you as I welcome and give my support and thanks to all those who in any way contribute to the fight against the current epidemic of the coronary virus, whether those who are passive and remain at home in peace, but especially those who are active in their professional and volunteer work, and thus are exposed personally, and are indirectly or are exposed to both family and who at these moments sacrificially carry out their duties. We should not forget our fellow citizens in the city of Zagreb or Zagreb County who have been hit by an unfortunate earthquake and who, of course, further traumatized the area and that part of our Croatia. Let me just short notice that as mayor of a big city that I also have great experience and that unfortunately in a few of my mandates I've been through everything, so the earthquake is the first experience, but I've been taught what happened to us big catastrophic floods ten years ago or something less years ago, and after that, we've had even increased winds that brought down the roofs, we've even had a plane crash. So the earthquake is something that has now happened to us because Zagreb County has also been hit, and my Great Gorica has been declared as an elemental disaster. I can only personally testify to the great engagement of all resources, and I think there are several mayors and deputy mayors here or in the former mandates who know that there is a great responsibility on us as responsible persons and executives, but in cooperation with the representative body that through this difficult time we can raise to an envious or significant level of organisation, discipline and thus contribute to making the situation as much bearable and shorter. I would also like to praise and praise our decision from two weeks ago here in the Parliament when, by supplementing the Civil Protection System Act, the Parliament made a very fast and effective move in such a way that it was possible for the national headquarters to make decisions and instructions that were carried out by headquarters at lower levels, county and city headquarters that we were, of course, obliged to implement it, and all for the equating of action, the harmonic action of all co-boarders and other entities and what is definitely reflected on the ground. This Civil Protection System Act normally stipulates that we are setting up headquarters, their composition, the way of handling, operational coordinating bodies to implement measures of activity in the field of responsibility, but many of these documents were just a dead letter on paper until a situation like this occurs and when this huge mechanism, the roof mechanism was to be launched and when it was to give reflection on lives, saving lives, preserving the health of our fellow citizens and when it was to give its true value. So here I welcome all my fellow mayors, the mayors of the municipality, the mayors and their deputies who are at the head of these civil protection headquarters to be brave, to endure and to bring the measures that will enable their units of local, regional, regional self-government to function at these given moments. Of course, in parallel with these measures that should be taken into account and the economic measures that we are doing, as far as I hear from the association of cities and colleagues across Croatia, so there is a large number of units of local, regional self-government therefore implements measures and aims to mitigate the current situation, but also to mitigate the post situation that will come after the crisis that we all expect, and that in cooperation with the Government of the Republic that has adopted one set of measures, the cities responded immediately were ready or municipalities, the counties to bring their set of measures according to the powers in which we are, so that at the end of the week we all wait impatiently and tomorrow's presentation of measures, and on Friday we will be able to make more detailed analyses to prepare ourselves and next week or weeks, and to continue on these measures, we will also take steps to implement our own measures. I am not just saying this because I would stress the current situation that is in local self-government, but to tell you in person, I am not talking about the aspect of democracy, I am not talking about constitutional rights, of course they are constitutionally guaranteed to promote them, to protect them, to take care of them, but here I see more the desire of opposition to popularise it in a way that is visible in the media and to offer something that we may not have in the future and should ultimately be, I am talking about electronic or some other choices, but right now in this situation at the technical level of the functioning of local self-government when we are actually in a situation to organise something that we did not have in the budget or which we do not have as much potential as we are now, different options, institutions that we have within our powers to provide for the functioning of the city or that are necessary functions. I think that, in cooperation with the elected head of the municipality, I am speaking here specifically about the municipality of Otok and the city of Orahovica and the mayors, therefore, I think that if this will be publicly and transparently presented to my fellow citizens that they can overcome this crisis at this level and, as the bill said immediately after the end of the special circumstances, they will go into the realisation of the Law on Local Elections in such a way that no more than 90 days will the elections be held. So, it is important, above all, to respect the health and safety of our citizens to model all the laws, including the one relating to local elections, so that at these levels of political, economic, civil and other action there will be no congestion or lagging behind in all situations, so I said there are transitional solutions, we have experience from these solutions and they are sustainable. After all, there is a compensatory measure or an institution or an institution to assist the Government in these two municipalities because other municipalities or cities of the units will not have such cases and there is therefore a possibility that there is sufficient and additional regulation of the situation in this life-threatening situation. Several sentences on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local Elections with a final draft law and in an urgent procedure, I think it is understandable, therefore, that only 3 articles are amended. I'll just say three. In these circumstances where we are also in the emerging situation, the declaration of an epidemic in Croatia and the protection measures by the National Civil Protection Staff prohibiting and restricting social gathering, social contact, of course that we, or the Government and the Assembly, must react without delay to the protection of our citizens, their lives and their legal order, and it is necessary to regulate and adapt the law or deadlines for holding early local elections. There were no other options, believe me. We can talk about some alternatives or experiences from the world but it takes a lot of preconditions, a lot of preconditions, changing a set of laws, actually preparing a public change and all the other circumstances to happen and we can think about it in other circumstances, not in these now special ones where we are. Therefore, the current law stipulates that early elections for representative bodies and executive bodies of the mayor, mayor, mayor and their laws shall be held within 90 days of the day of discharge, discharge or termination of the term of office. Here, in a specific case, on February 6th, the government decided to disband the representative bodies of one municipality and one city, it also called for the 19th April elections on 12 March. As you know, we said, so 18. I brought in the Civil Protection Act, and then basically everything started and there was no way of knowing what the circumstances would be, and they really need to be qualified under special circumstances, this situation that we're in. This proposal allows the government, therefore, to have the power to postpone early elections or, as is the current case in the municipality of Otok and Orahovica, to put aside the decision to hold those elections that should have been as I said on April 19th, until the end of these circumstances and not later than 90 days after the end. There will be elections, elections will be held in a democratic atmosphere as everyone has been held so far, and we just want to wish our fellow citizens everyone, but also those in the municipality of Otok and the town of Orahovica to endure and that The HDZ Club will support this bill. [[Intruder: Thank you, colleague Barisic.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195430	Let's move on. Now it's the SDP's Club of Representatives, dear colleague Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195431	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, it is no doubt that this law limits certain rights defined by the Constitution, and in my opinion there is also a valid reason for this because holding elections under the circumstances of the inability to gather, the inability to move freely, etc., is pointless. It is necessary to see if that restriction is subject to Article 16 or Article 17. The Constitution, and also, in our opinion 17, and also needs to see if the restrictions set in the bill are such that they may still be able to be reduced a little bit. In that sense, we have made an amendment to reduce this deadline from 90 days to 60 so that elections can be held in a shorter time after the special circumstances have ceased. Of course, the question arises if, by its many decisions, the civil protection headquarters has limited certain constitutional rights of citizens why it could not have done this with a decision. No, and it's good that he didn't do it, and it would be good if the government or the council had made a statement about the other restrictions that the headquarters had made so that we had one act, that we had a body that could react at the moment and whose decisions take effect, but that, after that, within a reasonable but rapid period and the competent authorities were made aware of the limitations of these rights in a democratic and democratic debate where certain things could be fixed. Therefore, our position on this law will depend on the government's clarity on restrictions, on which the constitutional article concerns the restrictions and on the amendments we have proposed. What should be said, however, is how local self-government units are now operating for which elections would even be conducted because their incomes are reduced to minimums due to the delay of primarily paying income tax which is one of the main sources of funding for local self-government and therefore, the inflow of the budget of cities and municipalities is reduced to a minimum, and cities and municipalities will not be able to pay even the costs of cold drive, let alone accounts and others. Also, in the coastal part of the local self-government unit they were obliged to complete the work by 31 May, they were launched and most of the revenues were due during the summer period when they were not implemented, and then, of course, no increased revenue is expected over the summer due to the questionability of the tourist season and now the issue of fulfilling the obligations of local self-government units to suppliers. As a rule, all payments other than cold drive have been suspended, according to many leaders of local self-government units including the largest local and regional self-government unit in Zagreb this month will have funds to pay salaries and directors, but for the next month it will not be possible. Therefore, a solution should be considered for units of local self-government as well as for the economy for which they will be able to pay employees wages or reduced wages for a percentage without altering the coefficients and basics, given the working time that certain employees in local self-government units or kindergartens, communal enterprises, etc., so on, they now have. It is even considered to ask kindergarten workers and utility companies to provide minimum wage according to the government's decision. Therefore, in these measures concerning the economy, I believe that the units of local self-government whose income has fallen significantly and which will not therefore be able to pay the most necessary, necessary things including wages are also to be taken into account next month. I guess they don't pay any bills now, that they can expect executions, and then it can happen that units of local self-government are both without income and without money. And also, the problem is that EU funds are being paid later by the state to lend local self-government units to the state in some way, and then it can happen that they do not have these revenues, that they do not have regular revenues, and that they have income from EU projects, that when they come to implement them to sit on their account for EU projects, and then it will all be one big complete block of the system. So, in this sense, we propose that the state compensates local self-government units for income tax, to ensure that utility companies are included in minimum wage options. Also, to make payments to the EU projects are made at most within 15 days of the request and one perhaps a radical proposal, but also to consider that public lighting funds or electricity prices for public lighting are also given a preferential price at the moment. We've got empty streets, and if we have dark streets, it's not gonna be a very good situation, a good message. As regards the functioning of the state in this situation, therefore the opposition to constitutionality, non-constitution, etc., the fact is and this was asked by Mr Grmoy in the context of the break that special circumstances as such were not declared and the fact that some even constitutional judges question the whole situation from the constitutional position. I know, Mr. President, that you have also announced that you are going to ask the President of the Constitutional Court who, in my opinion, has been a little bit harshly refused, and I think that the Constitutional Court in this situation should also be involved in acting by the Constitution and by the rules because it has been almost three weeks since the introduction of the right to work, the right to public assembly, the right to freedom of movement and this situation in a fluid constitutional framework cannot last forever, and after a while people will start acting and take the law into their own hands if there is no clear framework in which they can move, at least in their own behaviour. Therefore, it is necessary to avoid arbitrarily taking the powers of bodies which do not have the right to do so, or which have not been obtained by law, or which it is doubtful, by law, that the situation comes down to the prescribed constitutional rules, so if it is to be adopted daily, we will bring them in daily. We never had a problem with supporting the government in these measures that they had at first in the first wave. After that, we make other suggestions, some of our proposals will surely be accepted in government measures, as it is said, and a deadlock of a chicken sometimes stabs a grain. Therefore, I believe that this situation, including this law of law, which is undoubtedly limited, is the right to local self-government and the right to democratic elections to be dosed in a cautious and constitutionally unequivocal manner. In that sense, I would like to say once again, the SDP club will consider the government's statement of our two proposals. One is the application of constitutional articles and another amendment, and then we will make a decision on how we will vote on this law. And I think it's justified that these two choices are made to support the law in these circumstances of the inability to carry out a campaign without being maintained and in that sense we will also support the law's intensity. If we support the law ourselves, we'll see that when we hear the obvious. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195432	I thank my colleague, Bauku. Short of mentioning me, so if you don't mind me just explaining how I'm looking at the legal situation we're in right now. So it's in effect. 16. A constitution that says "in certain cases rights and freedoms of citizens can be limited by law if there is a threat to the health of the population". So I'm based on an art. 16. The Law on the Protection of the public in the case of infectious diseases applies, the Minister of Health made a decision and declared an epidemic and then we apply the Law on the Protection of the public against infectious diseases. This law clearly defines both quarantine and freedom of movement, i.e. the inability to move and to freedom in relation to entrepreneurial activities and freedom, or not freedom of assembly. So we have a legal basis, we also have the Civil Protection System Act which defines the powers of the Civil Protection Staff. Therefore, I believe that it is not necessary and that there is still no need to call for an article. Article 17 101st than we have a legal framework within which we operate, and so it will be until further notice. In case there is a change in up or some other situations that could not be covered by the article. 16 and these laws can then be considered other decisions. But what is important, the Croatian Parliament continues with its meeting and we will always be prepared and ready to react if necessary. Thank you and thank you for letting me explain. Here are my colleagues, Mr. Taritash, on behalf of the GLAS Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195433	Thank you very much, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. What should certainly be said right away at the beginning that the epidemic and the crisis in which we have found ourselves are one thing, but these already scheduled attempts to limit human rights by measures that are not proportionate or appropriate is something quite different and we will not and cannot agree to it. I understand and agree that Croatia, fortunately not Orbanov Hungary, is long ago, and now under the cover of the virus we have added suspended democracy, certainly we are not Serbia in which the state can be freely called a coup. But in order to continue to express the impression of a consolidated Western-type democracy, we must be very careful and alert. To be honest, we have already taken some steps that are problematic in this regard, we have limited the movement of people with police checkpoints and passes followed by this decision has already significantly entered the area of human or civil rights restriction. Local headquarters consider themselves the right to declare a quarantine for which they have no legal bases, the spikes are placed on the road, and no matter how much we understand it, we must be very careful. What I want to point out again and again, we must surely stand in the way of Croatia turning into Hungary at this point in any way and small elements which I do not think is, I do not think we are also turning into Serbia and I want to say it clearly, but I am convinced of something, we must be very, very, very careful. This bill of law that's in front of Mom is one of those suggestions about which you should certainly be careful. It's about elections, one of the cornerstones of democracy, and every limitation of that right without doubt is intruding into human and civil rights, and that's why it's a very slippery terrain. The intention of the law at first sight is clear and understandable. In the event that early local elections cannot be held, as the case now has to be delayed, it is clear and so is the real situation. But, of course, as usual in life, things aren't black and white and they're neither simple. The laws and decisions we now make, which are related to the coronaryvirus, should remain so. The most dangerous thing that can happen to us, which we, as representatives of the Croatian Parliament, can now allow us to sow various normative cowardly eggs according to various laws because of the crown. The coward's eggs that we bypass as a decision-maker which we are intruding into the personal freedoms and rights of the citizens of Croatia, by which we build powers in individual bodies. The proposal to track cell phones is an example of such a proposal, of which all the responsible representatives of citizens needed, and fortunately, a red light came on. A measure that no acrobatics can pass even a basic test of proportionality, and yet it is so formulated that there is no limit or knowledge of who it can embrace. And what's the biggest problem, so we can solve these measures and their consequences completely once we get rid of the coronary epidemic. And this proposal that we are discussing from now on has the same problem, and here it appears a bit of a scientific-fantastic and rather undefined provision on special circumstances that implies an event or situation that could not have been predicted and which could not have been affected. And then in that situation, the government has the right to postpone the call or to hold up already called elections, and that's that. The possibility is significant rather than restricting one of the fundamental rights without the period of validity of that provision. We at the GLAS Club, first of all, think this law should be passed by a two-thirds majority and we have no doubt about it. It's about a situation covered by the article. 17. The Republic of Croatia and he are seeking two-thirds of the support for this law. The other thing that we are particularly concerned about, which we can fix, is the absence of a period of time for this change. As I said before, the most dangerous thing we can do is let the various laws now set us up with cowardly eggs of unconstitutional and democratic tendencies that we won't be able to get rid of. As a result, the GLAS has submitted an amendment to this proposal requiring strict restrictions on the duration of the law's validity in the amended form as proposed. To our amendment, we add an item, another item that reads: "The provisions of paragraph 3 cease to apply with the date on which the competent authority declares the end of the SARS-Cov-2 virus epidemic". In other words, the duration of the proposed exceptions for early local elections is prescribed. We believe that the provision given to the Government to postpone the election must be strictly time-limited to the current situation for which it is brought and only to it. My colleagues and colleagues, I ask you once again to think carefully about our amendment and to give it support to avoid measures that are in their own hands that are problematic because they are brought into crisis and because of the crisis that these measures would not become permanent constituents of our law. Regardless of the seriousness of the situation, it is never good to sacrifice freedom for the sake of security in the long term or allow the unwarranted entry of the state into our privacy. In particular, it is important that all measures introduced pass a strict test of proportionality and that only the most appropriate and mildest possible measure to achieve this objective is applied for each justifiable objective. The measures which enter into the space of human or civil rights should in no way be introduced without the approval of the Parliament, in accordance with the Constitution of the two-thirds majority and with a strict time limit. All these measures must be linked exclusively to this particular situation, they must not be permanently incorporated into the laws. This is the principle that we in GLAS are strictly adhered to and we believe in its regularity and is also valid in this situation for this bill of law. To paraphrase the famous quote: "He who gives up his freedom for a little temporary security will lose both.". Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195434	It is now up to the Club of Croatian Sovereigns and Independent Representatives Zeljko Glasnović and Zlatko Hasanbegovic, a respected colleague of Hrvoje Zekanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195435	Dear President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here, we're passing a law so we don't have to hold local elections in two units of local self-government. This is about, specifically, the Municipality of Orahovica and the municipality of Island near Sinj, right? I don't remember that there was this kind of panic from the infection when the recent elections were internal in HDZ. Then it was a recommendation, it was 14 or 15 this month and then it was a recommendation just bring your pen. Take your pen and it won't be a problem. Now all of a sudden, that's the problem, so the problem is that in these small municipalities where only a few hundred people will go to the polls, which people will bring their pen to the polls and round up, if I'm not wrong on April 19th, my candidate or candidate. So, we've got a little bit of that double standard. These elections had to be held at all costs, and these elections do not have to be held. I'm just curious about the criteria, what's the criterion? So, is the criteria the number of those who went to the election? The HDZ elections came out 70,000 people, what, 60, I don't know. There will be several hundred, so there's much less coincidence than the infection, than the transmission of the virus in these local elections, than there was in the HDZ elections. Or perhaps these elections were much more important, so they had to be held at all costs, although it was important that the whole of Croatia knew who the president of HDZ was. And now that president who made it possible for himself to choose in one legitimate way democratically, and now he says, "We're not going to do that anymore, now we're actually going to suspend all possible elections that are coming." Great, and that's a great method. And I'm going to ask that question I asked today. Did we wait with all possible measures and with this civilian Civil Protection Staff to complete these elections, the HDZ elections. Could we have been able to leave seven days or five days earlier so we don't have such strict measures and quarantines and people can't go to other local self-government units? And maybe we could, and maybe it was very important that these elections were over and that the measures were only then implemented. Secondly, we have one small test here, and I am sure that our time, when the government, our ruling set-up with Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic suggested that we follow each other with the help of these devices, means that it is very possible to make an application very quickly so that everyone in these municipalities can vote electronically. If colleagues in the ministry don't know, here's what I'm going to recommend to them is a couple of IT experts who will do the job in two days. And these people in two days will be able to vote electronically, like, here. Here is the City Council of the city of Sibenik, who shall vote electronically. Here, they did it in a short time, in a second they managed to solve it. So you can. So there's some kind of model. Let's do this, let's make this a pioneer enterprise. Let's make sure the inhabitants of these two municipalities can vote electronically. And the other thing, very important, not to forget, I have to mention. We have parliamentary elections coming up soon. We have parliamentary elections coming up, and what will happen to these parliamentary elections? We're going to go through them, too? Could they come in line someday? And why don't you already, if it's a bit of a bigger deal, I'm saying it's not, why don't you already hire a company that's going to allow an electronic vote so we can finish this story? I know that we are in a specific situation, that our society today is on its knees, not only Croatia but global, so the entire civilization is on its knees. We have one challenge that we have never met before, but the only measures I see specifically from the Croatian government, not only the Croatian Government, because the situation is similar both in the Czech Republic and Slovakia, China and Korea, Hong Kong, etc., is only one enhanced control of citizens. With the help of a cell phone, with the help of smart phones, it's as if at any cost now the application wants to boost that control. And it doesn't matter that freedom is actually imperative and that what my colleague just said, that not a single fraction of freedom can actually be denied to an individual. I don't think Croatia is going the right way today and that these measures that are meant to be prescribed, not all of them, are also good, of course, not adequate. And I find it very strange that, here, in particular, and colleague Bačić, well, which is actually his job as president of the HDZ Club and Prime Minister, namely Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, etc., that they speak most of the citizens' control. What's with the control? Let's raise some optimism, let's raise awareness, let's raise some responsibility, and as for control, there are surveillance systems that are legitimate, which already exist, the police know how to do their job. And while we're at it, we're talking about moving from community to community because we're talking about local elections. It's absurd, for example. Today on Brač Island where there is no one else in isolation, where there is no one anymore, no one is even infected, thank God, but there are several units of local self-government, cannot communicate from one municipality to another, it's actually funny, it should be made possible. I will even suggest that you should allow within one county, that the county communicate with each other because some municipalities simply don't have any trade. So you can't even supply yourself with personal supplies because there's no store. And on the other hand, I came from Sibenik to Zagreb this morning, you know how many times it's controlled me? Zero. So I crossed all of Croatia or half of Croatia, no one controlled me, I could drive a truck, I could bring 100 people from Sibenik to Zagreb. And when I came home last week and I was coming home, and nobody controlled me meant nobody from Sibenik, the only one was control, so of the six possible controls, I had one control. So these controls, whatever they exist, don't actually exist. Let's agree on whether there will be control, whether it will be, but I would definitely bend to the county level, not to the level of local self-government because it simply makes it difficult for people to function. So, let me get back to the metrics. The proposed law is logical given that it is an epidemic, but I will say that it is not logical because some elections have recently been held in equally difficult circumstances. In equally difficult circumstances, when citizens, voters were recommended, take your pen and that's it. I believe that these few hundred people living in these municipalities can vote and that the story would not violate the nation's health picture. So let's do the elections because it should also be a guideline for the next parliamentary elections and for the local elections that are coming for all of Croatia what will be done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195436	We are now going to discuss the independent, club representative of the Independent Youth List, respected colleague Marin Škibola. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195437	Thank you, Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament. It is clear that the amendments and additions to the laws that are of a technical nature were to be held at the current time because early elections were to be held for the City Council of Orahovica and the Municipal Council of the Municipality of Otok, they were to be held on 19 April 2020. Of course, under these conditions, you better not hold those elections for security reasons. But it should certainly be said that the HDZ elections have been held, these are certain double criteria that should be revised here in the Assembly. However, what I would certainly like to say is that if there was a possibility of an electric vote, today we should not discuss amendments and additions to this law. So if we could vote electronically we shouldn't violate some constitutional principles on the freedom to conduct elections. Who doesn't respond to an electronic vote in the Republic of Croatia? The electronic vote in the Republic of Croatia does not correspond to two of the strongest parties, HDZ and SDP, the electronic vote is not responding. Why? Because it would increase citizens' participation in these elections, it would certainly increase the participation of young people in these elections, and we have seen from many analyses that young people are not prone to vote for HDZ and SDP, but are often looking for an alternative. And if an electric vote were implemented, then HDZ and SDP would not have the kind of electoral support they currently have until the electronic vote exists. When such a proposal arrived, former management minister Lovro Kuščević said that technological conditions were not met and that something like this could only be organised in two years. Two years have passed since he said so, however, there is no initiative by the government of the Republic of Croatia to allow electronic voting, not in the near future or in the near future. Kuščević mentioned 5G networks there and that for these reasons this electronic vote cannot be organised, but that is not true because without the 5G network Estonia has an electronic vote, therefore these were different obstructions and floscules that were then mentioned in the public why Croatia cannot go in the direction of the organisation of electronic elections. It also does not want to reform local self-government. So now that we're in this situation of the crown of the virus, we see how much we listen to the profession, how much media is paying attention to the profession, how the government can give huge powers to the profession, but when the profession says we need to reform the local self-government to make the system more efficient to save a lot of money, then someone doesn't want to go that way. Who doesn't? Two of the biggest parties in Croatia's HDZ and SDP again. Why? Because if a reform of local self-government is implemented, it is clear that they are losing that electoral body, the electoral body that is employed in these local self-governments that are often and unnecessary to be so organised for the functioning of the system. Therefore, I am now telling citizens close to parliamentary elections, don't give votes to HDZ, SDP is looking for alternative options, looking for third options, HDZ and SDP will never go into the crucial reforms that the Republic of Croatia needs. The important thing in Croatia is an extremely small turnout in the elections, then a question of democratic legitimacy is raised. In the previous local elections in Rijeka, the turnout was only 36.63%, so barely one third of the eligible voters went to the polls, so not even 50% of the citizens who have the right to go to the elections did not go out. And now where is democratic legitimacy if only one third of the citizens came out, and for 20 years the same party in Rijeka government? And so the little turnout was in that election, and the crown of the virus was gone. So there are other reasons why citizens don't go to elections and we need to detect it as the Croatian Parliament and we need to propose some measures that will increase turnout to the elections because in this way democracy is really threatened. At the national level, the turnout in the previous parliamentary elections was 52.29%, and today the power chosen with such turnout, if they now propose to track the location of all citizens, means not only those citizens who went to the elections, so also those citizens who did not go to the elections, even their phones will be monitored. Therefore, I am taking this opportunity to tell you that it is very important to go to the elections and do not expect HDZ and SDP to allow you to vote electronically because they are not in the interest of greater turnout. In this way, this interesting party machine comes to elections that are closely and interestingly tied even they may not believe that HDZ and SDP will change something crucial in the Republic of Croatia, but they are interested people tied up and then simply have to vote for these partial reasons, partial and particular interests. And that's this deficit of democracy that exists in the Republic of Croatia and that we seriously need to face my people, we seriously need to face it. In Belgium, Greece, Cyprus, Luxembourg, Bulgaria's election date is mandatory and turnout is always above 90%, so rarely when it is less than 90%. So if an electronic vote were to be put in place then a parallel vote could also be introduced, and they would certainly increase there, increase turnout in the elections, and in this direction should go, in this direction should go. The club of independent youth lists also referred to the procedure so that elections could be held as early as 16. modelled by other EU Member States. It is very important that we send one message, one signal that we want greater participation of young people in politics, and that will be done in such a way as to enable young people from 16 years of age. The vote. We have also referred the proposal to the solidarity of political parties. There have been many, many demagogues about this political solidarity, all of which should be minimal, some different, wage cuts, etc., but that key measure that would bring the most money into the state budget is a measure to reduce the funding of political parties from the state budget during this period. So not permanently, but at least in this period, let it shrink. Even if the financing of political parties were to be reduced by 50% in this period, millions, millions of kuna would be saved. HDZ and SDP receive huge amounts of money, no one has opened the issue in the Croatian public yet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195438	It is now up to the Club of Representatives of HSU, SNAGA, Independent Representatives and New Politics and Honored counterpart Tomislav Žagar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195439	Thank you, President HS, honoring State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. So there's a law before us that someone here called a technical law that changes three articles. However, when making such claims, we must be very careful. Namely, this pandemic that hit the Republic of Croatia is extremely dangerous and endangers the health of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. On the other hand, as we can see, it also endangers the economy of the Republic of Croatia, also very dangerous. But the third aspect that we cannot allow, which we need to think very well about because we do not have an excuse about the panedmia is the endangerment of democracy and democratic processes in the Republic of Croatia. We can't let that happen. My colleagues and colleagues, we are here today both literally and symbolically in the basement. It's not war, it's no excuse, it's not war. So it's a pandemic, but it's not a war. We must not allow democracy to push into basement spaces. Why am I saying that? The town of Orahovica has no city council, nor the island municipality. If this measure is now necessary and rightly some warn that, yes, it is necessary to bring it and that it should be limited only for now, for, for this danger, not for any future, to say so, arbitrary interpretations because the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia must not be interpreted arbitraryly. There are constitutional experts, there are ultimately government trioties, there are all those who need to say about this thing. Also, there's a president of the Republic who needs to say some kind of a word about it. Therefore, the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia may be interpreted on an arbitrary basis. He needs to be clear and must appear in these circumstances. The City Council of Orahovica has no representative body. We had a key amendment to the Law on Local Elections in 2009 when the institute so-called direct selection of municipal city and county leaders. 2017 I think you're bringing the so-called. Lex Sheriff who puts himself in, according to many, many opinions the role of a representative body in a subordinate position relative to the head of the body. However, now this crisis has shown that, even those who thought it was so wrong, because now even the head of the body no longer has the powers that or cannot exercise the powers conferred upon it by law, actually falling within the jurisdiction of the municipalities, and also one of the authorities, here is the city of Oreshovica if you want it civil protection. So how will the city of Orahovica implement civil protection if there is no representative body to make key decisions regarding civil protection. We see in Istria that certain cities and municipalities, which is especially to welcome, are making plans to save the economy. So how can the city of Orahovica do that if it doesn't have a representative body? So we've come out more of the framework of what can be put under the technical amendment of this law. Of course, no one could have predicted these circumstances. But now, as of today, we need to start thinking about what needs to be done so that these situations don't arise. And that's why I said in the replica today, that's why both colleagues and colleagues have warned here, with the right of some to offer concrete suggestions not to let cities, municipalities or counties remain without representative bodies. So let us introduce into the law a simple provision to stop the representative body, the mandate of the representative body ceases by establishing a new representative body, it will be a matter much, much clearer. The other thing that has been mentioned very often here today is a letter or an electronic vote. That's the same thing to take care of, that's one process that needs to be started, we see that unfortunately the coronary virus in that area has done more than all our efforts so far because many things are now much faster, much better solved, we see and that the tax administration has accelerated the work on that field. So in these areas, we need to make a significant step to make people's elections bigger and more participatory in democracy because democracy is something we can't lose. So, at this point, we, with the right of colleagues and colleagues, are wondering, are we not quite sure if everything that we have left in this case to the competent authorities, civil protection headquarters and the government, was that really necessary? Of course, not diminishing the successes both the headquarters and the government have achieved in human health. I have to, there are no colleagues of Zekanovic here, I have been through three controls between the county this morning, I have to commend the work of police officers who are extremely professional, who protect at the end and the health of us, but they also have to watch out for their health and threaten them, of course there are all other employees who are in this not only in the MUP system, civil protection are also health professionals who are every day endangering their health in order to protect our health. And what seems to me not only to be an impression but also shows the fact that the Republic of Croatia has responded well and that the citizens of the Republic of Croatia respond well to these challenges because life has stopped and citizens are acting fairly reasonablely and so far is the situation for us to express ourselves under control. What is not good, so at this point in one city, in one municipality the work of the representative body is carried out by the commissioners, the government's commissioners. It's perfectly safe and I know that because I come from that county, that I will not enter her expertise, personally I think she is an extremely professional person, but she is a representative of the political option, one police option, specifically HDZ. So she was a very prominent member of HDZ. It was also for a while while Minister Tolusic was appointed Minister Tolusic, she acted as mayor. So she's a prominent political person and she's now suspended the council and she's doing the job of the city council. That's not a good message. You can't say that the citizens will just accept it and say okay, she's doing it professionally. It works professionally, but it can't be done that way because the city council, better today if we had decided to abolish the decision to disband the city council, might be smarter than we're doing. And finally, perhaps most importantly, said all but that Orahovica has the problem, the island has a problem, cannot make certain decisions that would help the economy in their area, but all municipalities and cities in the Republic of Croatia will have big problems in the future. The Minister of Finance needs to come out as soon as possible and say specifically what will happen to the funds for balancing, the financial means for the survival of these municipalities and cities, because if that is not the case, if not especially those municipalities that have fewer employees, less income, if that is not the case, then it is fairer to say now, we are going to move into territorial reconstruction, we will point out some municipalities, some cities that cannot be financed, and if we bring them into this situation that they have to put the key in the lock themselves, and they are not ready for it, it will be even worse. Personally, I believe that there is space, but finance needs to come out as soon as possible with these measures that will apply to local self-government units so that they can fulfil all the tasks that citizens expect from them. And yet another note, state secretaries in many civil protection headquarters now do volunteers, a huge number of people who, many volunteers are not employed, have no income, perhaps think about giving these people a certain amount of cash compensation. Therefore, I regret to conclude this measure, unfortunately, that it is necessary to bring it forward and I hope that you will also consider these amendments that have been announced by colleagues of SDP and colleagues from GLAS regarding the definition of the time limit to which these measures are to be applied, in order to prevent such duties from being manipulated with such measures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195440	Thank you, too. Please, before the next debate that will be shared between colleagues Lovrinović and colleagues Vucelic that a colleague is disinfecting, I also appeal if someone has no paper or other helper, if he holds enough space if he does not touch the speech room and then we can avoid this disinfection, we can make life easier for her to say, purely recommended, advice, nothing else. Here you go, buddy, I'll warn you when five minutes pass you know.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195441	Well, thank you very much. I'll keep my paper in my hand that there's no contact here. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we are today discussing the Proposal for a Law on Local Elections. This situation in which we have found ourselves means the pandemic of the coronary virus to the surface and what is not good at all, these are the dreams of political structures and individuals to exploit this fear that has dragged into every human being in Croatia and that it wants to be further centralized and not to say totalitarianise the political system in Croatia. Perhaps dear citizens of you will immediately at the beginning sound harshly perhaps inappropriate in this situation you believe I have as much understanding as you do, but as my colleague said earlier we are currently in the basement of the former administrative building INE as if it were an emergency, but you see here is the assembly as it is decimated, but you saw when we were up there and in that building that there was never more than 15 MPs. Then what are we talking about? When this whole thing goes through, when you put the point, God let this go quickly, we'll see how much manipulations were really made of statistics and all of this, and what was real and what was dangerous. I wouldn't be talking about it right now because I really don't want to bring in any doubt. But here it is shown in this situation, how missed the structure of local administration and self-government that people can't process their fields, has to look for passes for maybe 500 meters or a mile or maybe closer, that they can't go to another place, etc. It's a simple system that's unsustainable. Ever since I've been in Parliament, I've been actively pushing for reform of administration and local self-government because this is simply unsustainable. So many municipalities, cities so pointless. However, such a system is ideal for those who have managed Croatia so far. Because why? Well it's a capillary system how you just keep so many employees and that's their choice, they're election organizers on the ground. It's this capillary political and corruption and political clientism. We need to break it down and simply in this time in which we are now living in this situation, we need to regain consciousness. I've also been pushing for an electronic vote for several years. But they don't want to. Why? Because then people who usually go to the polls, he could vote from home, and certainly 10 or 20%, percentage points would increase to the polls. As for these events in Otok and Orahovica, so be careful, in a shopping center a day, the food chain enters more people in one day to buy something than that day will come to elections, as it cannot be organised, and HDZ had recent elections, so it was also a pandemic of the coronaryvirus and they did it. So, in this way, it tries to manage fear even more and to collect more, to centralize powers. But, let's be honest, this government has already taken over most of the power before this pandemic, and we practically have a depraved political system where in the first place the government, specifically its prime minister, is in second, third place, so we saw that on Fridays we only voted on the voting machine what came as a message to be made from the government. That's what the current government is doing with its coalition partners, so we understand each other. There's no... We're in favour of opening up markets, green markets. Two weeks ago we asked to open it, it's a question and local communities, so it's about this and by that, what's interesting here? And after that, the pressure of the citizens was good, but the government made a decision to open shops around the market, again the OPGs, the people who produce it, can't bring their goods and therefore, it's unacceptable. So I invite you, open green markets tomorrow because it's safer to buy there than in indoors. But they're obviously protecting the import lobby. So now we have to preserve democracy in Croatia So we agreed, don't worry, therefore, you see, phone surveillance is required, monitoring is required to organise elections like this, so that they can be postponed, therefore democracy is threatened, political freedoms are threatened, individual freedoms are threatened. [[5 minutes, just so you know, I'm sorry.]] Stanka Change Croatia will fight hard, dear citizens, because we have had enough of this, we have lived too long in it, but only new people can change this one situation. To fight the virus, to recover the economy and everything.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195442	Thank you. You can continue, it's not touched... Here's your colleague, Vucelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195443	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, dear citizens. This virus, the pandemic of the Crown, has shown us how ineffective our system really is, pointed to its shortcomings. She pointed to the flimsy feet of this system of ours that had already begun to collapse by some first serious threat. And now, be careful what we do. Instead of taking advantage of this opportunity to fix, for the progress of the entire society, for the repair of our laws, for the upgrade, this is now an excellent opportunity for that, and what are we doing? So we're taking laws that are ineffective, which are from before digital transformation and we're just upgrading them, instead of today at this place we're discussing electronic voting. This is an excellent opportunity to introduce an electronic vote and there are no obstacles that we could not have discussed it here today. And why isn't that done? It is not done for the reason that by ruling it would lose power, it would lose its power over this people. By electronic vote, we would increase turnout by 20.30%. 500 thousand people who may now be even in Canada, Ireland, Germany, would have the opportunity to vote. They would have the opportunity to vote on people in Croatia who may not even be able to go to polling stations. And be assured, these are all voices that do not vote for HDZ and SDP. These are votes that vote for some perhaps smaller parties and could easily happen if you saw some new parties in this assembly. And these ruling parties would be asked whether they would come to power at all and for this reason electronic voting will not take place during HDZ. And be careful, now is the time when we introduce electronic teaching, electronic delivery of documentation, electronic passes, even reporting earthquake damage electronically. Everything can and as colleagues here have said, it shouldn't take more than a few days for a team of skilled ITs to make that application and make it. There's already a base, it's called an e-Citizen with whom we could connect that app, there's no obstacle except, let's call it, political will. And why is it important that HDZ and the SDP do not lose power in local self-government units, and by electronic vote they would lose? In local self-government units, in fact, there are pools of corruption, setting up jobs and setting up sexes and setting up employment. That's where people gather, that's where people get organized, that's where criminal organizations are created, and that's some of the lowest form and some of the basics of what's HDZ today. And no wonder the HDZ wants to keep that pool alive. E-voting at the state level would mean that the HDZ parliamentary elections are losing power, it cannot happen, and we fear that such laws as they are trying to do will make it possible to cancel parliamentary elections. This is some introduction to all this, this is a blow to democracy, potential possibilities are untold and this power will be used in the future unless we say stop now and start with some new laws to start to respect our voices, votes of opposition, and not to push everything under the rug. But we're important to them when we're supposed to give them support, and we've given them Bianca's support, and we'll see how that goes. So I stress, this is a potential blow to democracy and potential opportunities for even greater powers of totalitarian regimes such as HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195444	Thank you. Now there's a colleague of Lenart, outside the HSS and the Democrats, and that's also the last one, and we don't have two more at the club, so we have three more debates on behalf of the clubs. Here's your colleague, Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195445	Thank you, dear Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. This is another set of laws that clearly suspend constitutional rights of citizens, which is the worst that can happen in a crisis like this with the most important law that everyone has ever opposed, that is to follow a cell phone that is because some 0.5% or 0.12 are the ones that would want to pass a law that would follow all the phones, which means that everything,...the sense was legal and could be used against each and every one of us and every citizen living in the Republic of Croatia. Also, this law, which should certainly be passed by a two-thirds majority. All laws that reduce citizens' rights or abolish must be passed by a two-thirds majority and that is our club's position. Unfortunately, this law is post-mental syndrome. The government of the Republic of Croatia decided on 12 March to call early elections and to set deadlines from that decision. So the county, city election committees, the extended commissions of people must collect data, statements of acceptance of candidacy, need certain certificates from courts, and by 2 April 00 all lists must be submitted. The law that we are talking about today is still valid, and it will be worth April 2nd. As far as I know the vote won't be tomorrow and this law won't be passed tomorrow, so the government itself. In this case, the Parliament will violate the law. We will not pass this law until Wednesday, Monday, or I don't know when the vote will be organised. So we come to the point that the law is valid, that people in the town of Orahovica and the Municipality of the Island must act by law, must submit lists, must collect everything, and no law has yet been passed that would suspend this law that currently applies and force them to collect everything. Which is why the Government is the government. The council didn't pass a bill in time to extend these elections? And if, by agreeing with many colleagues before me, I see no reason why these elections could not be held. If HDZ had to hold elections at a time when there was a threat from the coronary virus, why can't we organise these elections today? If we organized the work of malls, if we organized a trade some parts of society are still working, and we know that the polls are less crowded than in the malls, then we could probably have these elections with all the precautions we have today and I don't think anything would have happened to the threat of infection, especially in those places where the disease is still missing. I think there's a lot of things being manipulated here and this pandemic is welcome to the ruling that they're trying to play their game. Here the minister said, when there was a question of parliamentary elections that parliamentary elections would take place in time, could the minister and the government of the Republic of Croatia know when this pension would end or when it would be appropriate for them to complete it? I don't know, they ask questions, they ask questions. Some of the ruling deputies said the opposition wants to popularise things. So if the opposition wants something to be transparent, it's not populism. I believe that the citizens of the Republic of Croatia have the right to know the truth and the real facts, that everything needs to be transparent and this is all about the pandemic itself. Many things have often been misused in Croatia, and most of all by HDZ. I sincerely doubt their honesty regarding, especially these elections, but also these sets of laws that suspend citizens' rights. The most dangerous enemy is the one you don't see, and with such an enemy, the easiest thing to do is to scare the masses because you don't see it, and you're saying that there's a terrible threat, people are afraid for their lives, and there's nothing more important to them than to save their health and their lives, it's human and normal. And with such an invisible enemy, it is very easy to manipulate and abuse it to achieve its goals. When we look back a little bit, it can be clear what was going on, how the ratings were going, who was sinking, who was going up. Trends have changed thanks to the invisible enemy. I also thank this way to all those who are making an extraordinary effort to suppress this pandemic that was selflessly given during the earthquake in Zagreb, who helped people and everyone from the heart to want good health and that those who are sick are well recovered and that no one else is infected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195446	Thank you. Here's a colleague, Milorad Batinić, in front of the Club of HNS Representatives, here's a colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195447	Thank you, Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195448	I'm sorry, sorry, I didn't see you. The break was requested by a colleague, sorry, sorry, sorry, we're gonna have to take a five-minute break.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195449	The Honorable Vice President of the Assembly. So, I ask for a break from the Croatian Sovereigns' Club for further consultations on this law and this time once again emphasize that we have double criteria in the Republic of Croatia. When it comes to elections within the HDZ where 60-70,000 people voted, the elections took place, noting that each one was carrying his own pen. On the other hand, when we have elections in small towns, or in municipalities where only a few hundred people would go to the polls, then we will extend those elections. So it is double standards and the Croatian public must know that this is simply not fair. On the other hand, there is still time to make an electronic application, i.e. to allow citizens and municipalities of Otok and Orahovica to vote electronically and that would be nice for the upcoming parliamentary elections and the upcoming local elections for the whole country when each Croatian citizen, every Croatian and Croat would be able to vote from their home from anywhere in the world. However, this is obviously not the government's intensity of the Republic of Croatia. Here is the reason actually one, I don't know which is, the cause is the coronary virus, but we saw that the coronary virus that was current and 15 days ago did not prevent the government of Andrej Plenkovic or his party from holding elections with a simple note "bring your chemical". If we are to adopt this bill, I am asking Andrej Plenkovic from this place, and here is the president of the parliament, Mr Jandrokovic, did they, with their act of holding elections within the HDZ, endanger Croatian citizens? Were we at risk, and were these elections supposed to have taken place, because right after the election ended, we entered into these measures that we have today?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195450	Thank you. I'm taking a five-minute break. So we continue at 12, 38. THE PURPOSE CONTINUED AFTER THE MEETING We can take it easy for our colleagues and colleagues to continue. So, now with us colleague Milorad Batinić is in front of the Club of HNS Representatives, here is counterpart Batinić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195452	Thank you, Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, dear secretary of state. In fact, one law that has caused or amended the laws that have caused a number of debates. It is simply that, since one can agree with it, perhaps when the basic Law on Elections was passed, on local elections, it was necessary to provide for these circumstances. In fact, it appears to be a correction, a technical correction that simply could not, means the creation of special circumstances, which could not be predicted and which could not be affected as stated in the article. 1. endangers the legal order, life, health or safety of residents, and property of greater value. I think this is one experience, God forbid it has to be used in some other laws. In fact, I think maybe we should have predicted it in basic law, but here we are. Namely, the HNS Club will support this bill because we believe that it is simply necessary in these circumstances because as soon as a ban on gatherings, reduction of social contacts is adopted, it means that the physical and technical elections themselves, regardless of the number of citizens in certain environments, which, how many would come out, I think is impossible to organise and above all, violate those fundamental principles of special circumstances. In fact, extraordinary circumstances require extraordinary measures, so we at the HNS Club are also looking at this law. And of course, these articles of the law will apply for a period of time until the Civil Protection Staff has reached its decision on the ban on gathering, social distance, will be applied until the situation is, of course, corrected and the decision taken, the same body will decide that a reunion of citizens is possible, and then the assumptions will be held that elections will be held. It has been mentioned, and of course, we in HNS are in favour, as much as possible for the electronic vote precisely for the reasons, it may be difficult to predict it, we can only speculate and increase turnout on our own, not only local but also in parliamentary elections, but also, the current situation with which we are dealing with information, in the Republic of Croatia it is neither possible, nor available electronic voting for all citizens. So there'd have to be some kind of one and another model again. Personally, for me personally, voting, whether it's a local, local election, parliamentary, any level, for me it's a solemn act and today-to-morrow when an electronic vote would come, the possibility of a combination, I'd like to personally come to elections, circle, put in that ballot box and that I'm registered there. But someone wants out of the comfort of their home, which is technically more elegant, we can discuss it, but I certainly support all those initiatives and we are through discussions and in the very basic law that we are now changing, expressing our desire and hope that, as soon as possible, this kind of vote will also be made possible. What at this time and these circumstances for the city of Orahovic and the municipality of Otok, what is to me as the leader of local self-government, for many years now, how you, this city and that municipality will function during this time period. In fact, the law very clearly defined it, however, but now it turns out that they are not functioning for 3 months, no budget has been adopted. The mayor has very small powers, the commissioner is practically a substitute for the municipal or city council, but one and the other are tied hands. In these circumstances, the special circumstances caused by the coronaryvirus, in particular many units of local self-government, to help the economy, to help its citizens make certain decisions, release them from city taxes, communal fees, from contributions, declare certain other measures, release the payment of parental participation in kindergartens. But how? I'm not sure, I'm not sure, I'd like to make a mistake, that they'll be able to do it, consume the economy, but also the citizens of Orahovica and the Island. But, I'm not sure, I'm not sure, I don't know the technical details about the amount of the budget, the possibility of functioning, we know that the mayors and the mayors have the financial limit they have, and the acts brought by the city council can only be discussed and decided by the city council or the municipal council. So, by respecting and thinking about electronic voting, this bill is primarily a big dilemma for me that these municipalities and that city, that municipality and that city will function. It is difficult to predict simply how long these circumstances will last. By some forecasts, if it's, I don't know, June 30th, I'd like it to be much earlier, is it July 30th, is it, is it autumn? Basically half a year, more than half a year, these two local self-governments aren't going to work the way they're supposed to. I see the problem here, I see the problem here, and therefore, through the replica of the minister, I have also proposed to consider the Law on Local Self-Government, whether, in such circumstances, it should not be provided for in that law, as regards jurisdiction and authority, whether the Commissioner, whether the Mayor or the Commissioner, or, since the Commissioner is a substitute for the City Council, when we have a regularly and legitimately elected head, that they find together models and ways and through decisions on temporary financing to predict possible opportunities that would be just the same as these provisions of the law apply, for this time special circumstances. Now, I have a dilemma here, and I would like it to be noted, and, if necessary, I believe that this House will certainly support these initiatives for the very reasons that we are in special circumstances for which we are making the law, but also the functioning of local self-government, or two people, Commissioners and mayors or mayors, are, in a way, co-existence, bound by their hands, limited possibilities, how these local self-governments will function. 6 months, well, can be in some, how-so normal circumstances, and whether these circumstances that they are, can be as normal a function as they are. I will not refer to the suspension of civil rights under the Constitution because it is very clear when these articles are applied, until when and when they stop. I'm saying in HNS we'd be much more pleased if it were possible for an electronic vote, I'm not sure within this short time limit as quickly as possible with the fact that the basis of the information we had when it was I think it was during last year that I wouldn't want to deny it, but I think somewhere only one 40, 50 or how much of Croatia is ready to set up an electronic voting system. So the inaccessibility of networks, the inaccessibility of network quality, of course there is a model via e-Citizens to which they would support and accept my heart. So much, the HNS club will support these amendments to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195453	Thank you. The last debate on behalf of clubs on the first item of the agenda is counterpart Branko Hrg in front of the HDS-HSLS-HDSSB Club. My colleague, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195454	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. It is interesting that in this time when we are commanded and we are all aware that we have to look after ourselves and everything about ourselves dramatized about some things where dramaturgy is not at all needed, such as no need to amend this law, except in that part of what our colleague Batinić was saying, which I completely agree with, where the moment can come to a problem if these two cities should make changes to the budget then there is a problem to help the economy or the population. But you can always find that solution. But when we bury ourselves in every problem, it actually opens up a big hole, so it's a hole in the operation of local self-government. I will not generalise and underestimate anyone, I will say that there is certainly a huge number of local self-governments that are extremely functioning, which are really for example and municipalities, and especially cities, but that there is also a large, large number of local self-government units and municipalities and cities that are going to use the word even funny in this part of the functioning of municipal, city councils and mayors, mayors. I was tempted to play a session of a municipal council here today, and let's see and hear what we have on the ground, what we're talking about here. So the fact of the matter in many areas is that the councils are the fig trees of the leaders elected directly in the elections and that these councils can't do anything to them. The fact is that in the same environments, it's traded, councilmen are bought, they're given jobs in city companies to hold the majority, that's a fact. And you know what the worst fact is? That no one controls it, that no one reacts to it and that nothing happens. It's our life, it's our reality. And one day in one day's press was an interesting article or two on one portal and in one press, one week on a duplicate example with the names, data, no one, that I'm not talking about what's going on in the budgets. I've said several times that the State Audit has no capacity to control everything that's going on at all, that over half of the local self-government is going under the audit radar because the audit hasn't even arrived there and that it's all happening there. And we are now talking about whether democracy is collapsing because in the crisis of the crown of the virus, elections in two cities, elections that are caused by democracy, these elections are caused by democracy. So there was an election of conflict, right, councils and leaders directly elected. Then we need to start thinking again and ask the question, is this law really okay and whether it gives what it should give. I've been head of local self-government for a long time, I've never come to a situation where my council falls apart, I've never come into a situation where I should postpone a council meeting. It's often demanded a lot of conversations, agreements, negotiations, everything else, but it's such a job. I was also the head of the city in that system when the council elected mayor, I was also in direct elections. And you know what I'm going to tell you, that maybe that way of working out the mayor's election from the council's ranks after the election is more efficient and more practical and better so that now this situation wouldn't have been such a law, it wouldn't have been because the council would have proposed and elected a new leader who would have moved on or would have been a commissioner who would then run the local self-government. We've created a paralyzed system, and when we're discussing it then we need to put a little bit more on the table of very, very exact data. When it was '93. The established local Croatia then had a significantly higher population in these rural areas than it has now. Today you have municipalities that had 2,500, 3,000 residents now have 1,500 and who didn't happen, everything else is the same. Well, it's not the same. And then we talk about an expensive system, about poor progress, about a lot of people in that system, let's just open up a little bit, let's seriously discuss it, let's do an analysis after 27 years it's okay to put it on the table and say that the situation in the Croatian local self-government is no longer as fundamentally as it was at the time when it was set up. And those who advocate one reorganisation and reform of local self-government are right, we will have to approach it, the sooner the better, the sooner the better. And now that we have civil protection headquarters, so here's a few days of example when these confirmations were from the village to the city, suburban settlements, the other municipality, the same distance as the neighboring village, this is under the city, this is under the municipality they had to issue each other's certificates. So often we're holding things back, and we're gonna need to do something about it. So on behalf of our club we will absolutely support these changes, and we hope that as soon as possible people will be able to hold their elections and that in this time that is now managed by their mayors, they will solve these technical, ongoing problems that are and help people who live in these local environments. And the law so preconceived to be applied in these situations is good to me that it's so conceived because it would be bad to say that it's only for the coronary pandemic of the virus. Well, tomorrow God can't do anything else in another environment and it's only known to apply in that case. And to go to elections at a time when we are suggested on all sides to stay home, not to go out, to keep spaces, so I think it would be irresponsible of us to send a message that people are very important and important to the crucial importance of life you must now go to the elections. What you think will be chosen by two city councils or will not be chosen, the world will be destroyed for it. It won't be a disaster anywhere. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195455	Thank you, too. We can do with an individual discussion, next up is colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195456	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues. Here we see that the minister himself said that this law is necessary because of the pandemic i.e. Corona virus, to postpone elections in the Island near Sinja Dalmatian and in the town of Orahovica in the municipality of Otok and Orahovica. I think this government has had a chance to change that. A referendum initiative a little less than two years ago, "People decide" collected a sufficient number of signatures, never solved amongst us parliamentary deputies, that we see this problem as a solution, which is an electronic vote that would solve a problem like this that no one has anticipated. I don't blame the government or anyone here for this pandemic, but I blame them for passing a law that will allow electronic communications to accompany citizens, to endanger citizens' freedoms, and at the same time, i.e. At the same time, we see that they did not want what the People's Decision initiative wanted, where 400 signatures were collected, and we have never been shown any invalid signatures. So this is a respected assistant minister, I'm sorry she's not a minister, this government is the gravestone of the referendum and she's the culprit, the absolute culprit because this referendum has been annulled, that we haven't given our citizens the opportunity to plead and by that electronic vote, it's MOST immediately and suggested that the law is in the procedure to solve this problem. Recently there were local elections in Germany in certain units of local self-government in the second, the HDZ elections were organised neatly, regardless of the outbreak of the coronary virus, but the urgency of the party oligarchy that manages and wants to manage and even dictatorial methods respecting the coronary virus, respecting all the measures we need to adhere to, trying to get through electronic devices, monitoring all people through cell phones. This is their goal, their primary goal, and this is what counterpart Bacic said even publicly in the "Open" show on HRT on those days when it was current. And here I would agree that lex to the sheriff simply lost democracy, and democracy is essentially a parliament, a council of parliaments simply a congregation and councils no longer have that weight to have. In order to get to his coalition partner Bandic, he could not have made most of it to be strengthened and he would have collected all the chips he needed, so that this government would remain or in Split, too, in the larger cities could not create the majority and in certain other cities then it went to this application that the lex sheriff would kill democracy and essentially this lost assembly body, parliament, council, councils, congregations, those bodies that the tribals would be the controllers of those who the tribals would have, the mayor of the local self-government was so empowered, he appointed everything, the simple assembly and founder of certain companies, but simply the mayor now appoints all the boards, the boards of directors, and simply controls everything. So this initiative was mentioned earlier that this one was 10 years ago until it was a direct choice of mayors so that things like this wouldn't happen. However, because of the coalition potential, this coalition, mainly Milan Bandic and his chips, we came into a position that we brought the lex sheriff and that's what it wasn't, so this government did positively, so you had the opportunity, you had the chance to simply change it, which is an electronic vote and a letter vote. Which is why, no excuse, we didn't know there was going to be a pandemic. Because if it were an electronic vote then it could be possible to vote, it could be a model for these elections in the Municipality of the Island of Sinj and Orahovica to be conducted. I think this government is the gravestone of the referendum, the gravestone of democracy. And that the lex was destroyed by the sheriff... [[Intruder: Thank you.]] [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195457	We have one, we have one replica, stay here, colleague Bull, stay here. One replica of my colleague Sladolev, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195458	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear counterpart Bulj, only one digression, so on local self-government, as far as the City of Zagreb is concerned, so today the mayor Bandic said that the City of Zagreb will not renew homes that it will not participate in home restoration after a devastating earthquake. Just to announce to the citizens how local self-government works in the City of Zagreb, the City of Zagreb has 218 local committees and 17 city districts. These people don't decide anything but these local boards and city halls have no legal personality, and they receive high fees for this time. So, the councilman on the local board receives a fee of 700 kuna per month, and in the city quarter of 1,700 kuna, and last week we had meetings of local committees and city quarters on the electronic road, so we should just write in the mail that, no, abstentioned, so people got a one-mail fee of 1,700 kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195459	Thank you. Here's your answer, pal.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195460	And yes, this is the management system that is in Zagreb, and here we have an example different, here I am in Sinj for a long time already president of a local board where council members don't have kuna means local councilmen, we think that this model that's been applied here in Zagreb, it's simply applied means that every building, every entrance, every settlement, simply is.../incomprehensible/... important only elections, means only local elections are important to remain in power, but the biggest problem is that Lex Sheriff killed democracy, what is killed what is the main meaning that the assembly and representative bodies are at least countered by the mayor and the leaders of local self-government. Here is the reverse process, here is the mayor and the mayors are all absolute, and some decisions that can be made by the city council is essentially a fig leaf well spoken for by the mayor and I believe that this lex sheriff should be abolished immediately because what Andrej Plenkovic made with the defense of his Lovra Kuščević is a disaster for democracy in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195461	Thank you, time, please a little intervention and continue, next is colleague Silvano Hrelja. Here you go, buddy Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195462	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, we believe that this law should be passed because of the circumstances of the implementation of measures against the pandemic of the coronary virus. However, we have problems with some, some details of these laws, and every time we make laws, we have to ask ourselves, and does that have to be just like this? I don't agree with my colleagues, our colleagues, who have advocated the election and despite this pandemic. That it can be organized with masks and coming to the polls, but it's only one part of the election process. You know that all parties in the elections have the right to promote, have the right to represent themselves before the citizens of their programmes, and then if you limit it, if you have a ban on each gathering then you are in some way a democratic process is not consummated, consumed until the end and for these reasons it is practical to postpone these, these elections. One question is also raised in these elections, how many times the representative bodies of the local self-government unit can not agree, argue, act like rams on a cabin, causing new and new and new and new elections each time. Every time for each new election, processes are blocked in the local self-government unit, taxpayers' money is spent, and I don't think this law answers such questions. So despite what we're going to fix this law to one circumstance there will be many, many, many more situations that are very, very problematic. When I look back on this particular law alone, I think that here, as always in Croatia, is a terrible, terrible issue of nomotechnical schlemper. So we're passing laws so quickly that we're not even thinking about this, and we're not taking responsibility for proposing incompletes I'd dare say something much worse, nonlife laws. Why the unlively? Because they do not predict a large number of circumstances in which life takes place. I would say, what my colleague Lenart said here, and I would say that again, if we were suffering from post-brain syndrome, and that's not good, that's not good, it's not a professional approach to writing and in some way law-making, nor is it no-technically correct, and most Western European democracies have systematic controls before the law is sent to the most legislative or representative body. You know that in France, there is advice that has to be agreed and that, beyond that advice, no one points to the laws, to evaluate it. The same is true of colleagues from Slovenia. Therefore, I think we are learning too little, we have a terrible, terriblely beautiful situation, a beautiful situation so that we can learn from the experiences of others since we are EU members, and we are very, very little, very little. And so, yes, the question arises as to what my colleague, Sagar, has said here, the question of morality and the appointment of commissioners. So, the question is whether a person who is politically active may not be from that place, in a particular party who is an active participant in the elections in the local self-government unit at all, or who can be exclusively professional political neutral because it is not about defining policy and cooperation with the mayor, it is about the clean functioning of the local self-government unit. In the end, one such person may also be in conflict of interest. And the last problem is that this law is being passed too late because all deadlines are running, everything, all activities were to be done, and we're really, really late.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195463	Thank you. Please stay here because you have one replica. My friend Sagar, do you want a microphone?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195464	Thank you. Dear, esteemed colleague of the Hrelja, so two things are seen in the Republic of Croatia. First, what you warn that we are passing laws that do not recognise all possible circumstances that will arise, and on the other hand, we have solutions that we do not apply. So the municipalities can set up single administrative departments together, they can, even in these crisis situations, set up a joint civil protection headquarters, so there wouldn't be an absurd situation so that from one municipality where you don't have a butcher's office, you don't actually have a pharmacy, you don't even have a mass anymore, there won't be any more likely to be a municipality, so these citizens have to ask for passes every day to buy meat. Because then if they do that often, they turn out to be unserious and they don't follow measures. So there could have been more reason and, and will make certain, certain steps. What seems to me to me now, no doubt, will come to me that the Republic of Croatia needs a territorial reconstruction and it will be urgent.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195465	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195466	Dear fellow, I agree with you and I would, in any case, the one who cannot agree, suggest that he join another neighbouring municipality or city that the system can function because it proves on several occasions that they are unable to agree, and that is a big, big, big problem. More than that, of all the things that we've been saying to me terriblely, and I think that our citizens are very angry that we have to deal with this because we have bad and imprecise laws that don't predict these circumstances instead of dealing with all the problems that our citizens live in, and live in, not under bars in our four walls, with limited movement, with one terrible, terrible feeling of anxiety and fear until we all live together, how we'll all survive together, and we all have to survive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195467	Thank you. We continue with an individual debate, the next colleague is Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195468	I would like to thank my esteemed colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Vice President. Is the regular situation where citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia are not allowed to remain on public surfaces? I don't think so. Is the regular situation of respected colleagues and colleagues in which citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia should not leave their place of residence? I don't think so. Is the regular situation where a whole series of economic operators are banned? The one where, if we look at the streets and the squares of our cities, we see only one person here and there, and most of the time, with masks? Dear colleagues and colleagues, this is not a regular situation. It's a situation in which the Republic of Croatia is being hit by a global pandemic of infectious diseases. It's a big natural disaster. And in such a great natural disaster, our Constitution predicted the possibility that we could limit the individual rights and freedoms of our citizens and citizens. We do, too, but the problem is what we do the wrong way. I listened to my predecessors argue. Don't get me wrong. No one in their right mind will call for people to go to the polls today to expose themselves, as well as other deaths of infectious diseases. Neither of us in the SDP advocate it, but in the replica, and afterwards, when Bauk spoke on behalf of the club of MPs, we made it clear. All we're asking is for the measure to be adopted in a constitutionally prescribed manner and limited, given that we believe that some things are not quite solved in this bill. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I don't want to be any longer, but I want to be perfectly clear. We're facing an emergency situation, it's a fact, it's a fact that no one in their right mind can deny in a healthy eye. Look at her as I said every time she goes out on Croatian streets and squares, she sees her walking around, and the police approach him and says she has to go home, she sees her every time we say thank our firefighters and our officers, but above all, our healthcare professionals who work in the perilous and dangerous conditions. Our speeches, the place where we are sitting, the way we do everything indicates that today in Croatia this is not a regular situation, and in such a situation then let us act in accordance with the regulations. That is why I will say once again, if we decide to restrict the right of citizens and citizens to local self-government, and we decide on that, if we decide to restrict the rights of citizens and citizens to local self-government, and then we decide to make that decision with two-thirds of the votes of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. Accept this suggestion, accept the amendments that many colleagues and colleagues will submit, regulate this law properly and vote it in a way that is prescribed by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, no more than that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195469	Thank you. Please stay because we have three replicas, stay a colleague of the coat of arms. He is the first colleague of Sladolev, then a colleague of Hrelja and his colleague, Žagar. Here's your colleague, Sladolev.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195470	Thank you. Dear fellow coat of arms. Do you have any information that some local self-government representative bodies are using this crisis around the coronal virus to push through some financial issues like this? The city of Velika Gorica, which is just in the midst of this crisis with the coronary virus, has brought new responsibility to the city of Velika Gorica of 47 million kuna. Of course, all sessions are now being held by electronic means, practically without media focus, without discussion? And would you like to limit at this time the borrowing of representative bodies i.e. cities and municipalities when we have such a crisis?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195471	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195472	Thank you. I read a few days ago that the website of the city of Zagreb was first published, and then the decision was deleted to assign the work of editing the city of Zagreb for the Easter holidays. It has apparently tried to provide someone with a job, and we know that the mayor of Zagreb loves this very way and especially when it is not in the public interest. Is there a similar situation elsewhere? It probably does, but they haven't reached me or most of the media in the Republic of Croatia. However, this cannot prevent units of local self-government from working and must not prevent units of local self-government from doing what they need to do. Many local self-government units are currently complaining that they cannot come to the necessary task because their cases stand in the Government of the Republic of Croatia. If this is about the debt needed for projects, especially in a situation where municipalities and cities are exposed to loss of income, then I have nothing against it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195473	Thank you. Replica number two, mate, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195474	Dear fellow coat of arms. And we, I'm in front of the Croatian Retirement Party and our club, said that elections must not be held at the time of the coronary pandemic of the virus because it is extremely dangerous. So it's not just the SDP, so I just want to remind you of that. Secondly, I ask you, you are a lawyer, you have worked in law enforcement, I have made one claim that our laws that we bring to the Croatian Parliament are of insufficient quality and inanimate precisely from these facts that I have explained. I am very interested in your opinion because today we need more than ever views from the profession or from the profession of this situation, and what do you suggest?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195475	Here's a colleague of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195476	Thank you. So we agree on what is important, which is that citizens should not be forced into situations where they expose themselves or other executioners, for example in the United States until a few days ago they held elections and saw very little participation of citizens precisely because of the fear of infection. And the choices that less citizens go to than would normally go to local elections that, unfortunately, very few people are going to start dating are more fake choices, to use our Istrian dictionary, elections do not depict the true state of affairs. And as for this other one, we have a lot of problems with our bill proposals, for example, that famous law on monitoring is a classic example of a law that's been unsettled with a whole series of measures that put a few amendments on it. This situation must not be an alibi for the passing of bad and incomplete laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195477	Thank you. And the last replica of your exposure. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195478	Thank you. Dear fellow GRbin. As counterpart Hrelja and HSU have said, they support your thesis, and in order to make it a picturesque support, I will say the following, so in the town of Orahovica, and the citizens, apart from limiting these rights and freedoms that you have stated, are limited and active and passive voting rights, so they have no choice at this time, have neither their representative body. The only representative or only representatives who can represent them now are the representatives of the Croatian Parliament. I come from that constituency, so I represent the citizens of Orahovica and therefore it seems very logical and too much that I, as an opposition representative, can vote for such a very important law that will delay their right to choose their representative body. And that's why I think your thesis is still logical, and I support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195479	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195480	Thank you, dear colleague. So the way this measure should be passed, this law should be very, very simple, and that is by applying Article. 17. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and in a way that defines exactly how long this measure will last. If it turns out, and I get warm, warm hope that it will not show up and that this pandemic will really end by June as we have had the opportunity to hear certain optimistic statements in the media, then it will not be by extending the measures, but if this situation turns out to be going on then there is no problem with us here in the Croatian Parliament, and even once a month we decide to do so, we extend this measure. No measure taken under the auspices of the crisis should last indefinitely. Croatia is not Hungary and I do not want it to ever become Hungary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195481	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. Next is counterpart Sasa Djujic. Here's my colleague, Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195482	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, so I will join in my thoughts to colleagues who have spoken before me, who come from the opposition, so we are all aware today of the situation in which our country has found itself, but also the whole of Europe and in fact the whole world and none of us are for any illogical actions, so neither of us think that local elections must be held at this time and that they should be reached. But I will remind you once more as my colleagues, but I will try not to repeat myself. So, we're from the opposition, and everyone in the opposition doesn't just think about the SDP in this situation right now, and I can say that even if we're not too critical, maybe we should be in some situation. And I'm sorry that on the other hand from ruling our words and our voice doesn't come to, no one listens to us, no one respects us. So, the ruling page is full of the mouth of the community, full of mouths fighting this invisible enemy where they should all stop together, and then they continue to work on their own, without doing well shows that in the first week of this crisis they have thrown out a package of economic measures, and that on Friday we will have to fix these measures because this first package was not good. I'm listening on the radio today while I was driving here, and now the government is prescribing, or crisis headquarters is prescribing a new way of issuing these famous passes because in the first stage, they were being issued without control and there's no one there, no way to control these things, and now it's being fixed. The same thing is with this law. So you've given us one law that has certain gaps in us. And we make amendments, we offer certain solutions, but you don't listen at all. And I also think that this should be made by 2/3 of the majority, that we should all take part in it together and that we should finally start making decisions together. Not because we would like to do so from the opposition, to participate with the government in making decisions, but because we think that two heads are smarter than one. And if we'd all worked together and you'd all been listening to certain suggestions together, then you wouldn't have to correct your measures every week. Forgive me, in this situation which is extraordinary and concerning all our citizens, it is unthinkable that the prime minister is proposing yesterday or yesterday to his coalition partners, presenting a package of new economic measures, which is with the opposition. Why don't you invite the representatives of the opposition parties' clubs and introduce us or think it's none of our business or that we don't have to participate in it and that we don't have a single good proposal and that you don't have to cut us off for a dry plum. So this is no longer a question of the HDZ coalition partners and these ruling majority that is the issue of all of us and we all have to participate in this and we all have a responsibility to participate and make the best decisions in the interests of all our citizens. The same thing is with this law, this law is determined to deny the rights of citizens and must be reached by 2/3 of the majority and must be made by consensus of all and thus should be decided, and this time the HDZ has chosen is not good. And the HDZ, in my view, I'm going to say it here uses this crisis to easily try to kidnap the state for the second or third time. Watch this will pass, this will pass in a month, two months, three months, I hope as soon as possible, but then you will need to lay down accounts for Croatian citizens and you need to know what you've been doing. Whether there were some things being brought, whether someone was being denied freedom, whether it was trying, whether it was trying to leave it, how public procurement is going to be conducted, let's say now, I can't wait for this law on the rehabilitation of the City of Zagreb. Here, I can't wait to see what's coming out of Stromar's lab on that, which is what I'm curious about, to see which way it's going. People aren't time for that kind of thing right now. You have to start to realize that. And the other thing is the semi-extreme state, the media perception is that our headquarters is doing well. I believe he's doing the best he can, if that's all ideal, I'm not sure, but I think we're '91. The year has chosen some democratic society, that we have moved away from totalitarian regimes, forgive me today, it is not normal for children at school to draw superhero Bozinović. Look, it's not normal for me. Now we can talk about perception here, we can talk about people thinking it's all great, look, we're not Korea, we're not Kim Jong-un, we're drawing a superhero from the HDZ. Look at that, people, stop that. Put that on, cool your head and let's start working together in the interest of Croatian citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195483	Thank you. Stay here. We have two replicas. She's her first colleague, Mr. Taritash, and then her colleague, Grmoya.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195484	Coliga Djujic, you mentioned the City of Zagreb, what we had the opportunity to see, and it has already been 10 days since the earthquake that nothing important happened in the City of Zagreb, the citizens are self-renovating, Bandic told or Mr. Mayor said that what happened today was a good time when the Secretary of State from the Ministry of Construction and Spatially arranged in one daily television said that Mr. Bandić did not want to participate with the state in the reconstruction or whatever should be done with Zagreb. I am now interested in whether or not this coalition at the level of Mr Bandic and HDZ, and you mentioned it, so I refer to it, there is, because according to the paper coalition only exists when it is necessary. So it'll be interesting to see when that law comes, how it comes, and in that time Life goes on. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195485	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195486	Exactly, my colleague, I was also looking at statements from the State Secretary today that said that the City of Zagreb does not want to participate at all in the preparation of this law, nor does it give participation. And when we see that these are coalition partners at the level of the state, which, say, the prime minister two days ago presented economic measures, but he did not find it appropriate to present it to the leaders of the opposition or representatives of opposition clubs, then I wonder how it will work. Look here, it's also mentioned here today, this law that we are discussing today, normally, can have objective reasons, and today certainly are objective reasons why local elections are not being held today. Is that gonna be possible in a year and that stuff needs to be predicted? And what happens if we are not able to do what some fear, say, by ruling, we cannot hold parliamentary elections? And then this Bandic-HNS coalition, which apparently still has the chills and has not reconciled, has to run the state at the most critical moments. That's not good, and that's why here we all have to take part in all decisions together and decisions must be made by a two-thirds majority minimum, if not unanimously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195487	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. Next up is colleague Ivan Pernar. My colleague Pernar's missing, according to an article. 233rd, he loses his right to debate. After him, he's a colleague of Branko Bacic's. Here's my colleague Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195488	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I have applied for a debate under the amendments and amendments to this law, primarily for reasons to confirm that this law and its adoption and in this situation of special circumstances, as we have also defined the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Civil Protection System Act, is in accordance with the Constitution, i.e. with the Article. 16. The Constitution of the Namely, art. 16. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia allows the Croatian Parliament to restrict certain rights, human rights prescribed by the Constitution and by law, while taking into account the principle of proportionality and such a law, as you know, is passed, therefore, qualified by the majority, as far as human rights are concerned, which means with a supraly majority of the total number of MPs in HS. It is a legitimate situation that we are already implementing and which, as you know, the Constitutional Court has not responded with its report because if the Constitutional Court found that there were certain constitutional, violations of the Constitution, the Constitution of declared human rights and freedom would react. And the Constitutional Court did not react, which then clearly, in itself says that what we are doing, we are doing in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. The state of emergency that some advocate to be declared in Croatia implies in countries that otherwise have an emergency, that is, in the Croatian Constitution, neither is it prescribed nor is such a concept introduced, but where the state of emergency is in force, means a curfew, an army on the street, etc., etc. In the Republic of Croatia, as we clearly have all the institutions working, both the Government and the Parliament and the President of Croatia and the Fatal Authority and the administrative bodies, all the state bodies in Croatia are functioning, therefore we are working under special circumstances caused by the Coronavirus, but no state body has, has been suspended, its work has not been suspended, therefore, we hold that despite such circumstances, HS can, at such sessions as we are carrying out, make decisions and laws as we practically implement this law. What I would like to hear from my colleagues in the opposition is to explain to us what it would do and how it would make such a decision from an article. 17. The Republic of Croatia was supposed to look? Should that decision only in principle count the rights, the human rights prescribed in the Constitution? Is it possible to specify precisely every concrete measure and, when it comes to the restriction of movement and bans on gathering and entrepreneurial freedoms, the ban on the labour of markets, is it possible to block the island of Murter? I would like the opposition colleagues to make it clear to us that such a decision should appear. Should such a decision be made again by a two-thirds majority for every new restriction or abolishing that restriction? Should such a decision provide for a restriction after that and amend that same law that was defined by that same two-thirds majority? Would then, in that case, the HS take over the civilian headquarters's powers, hesitate and practically every measure, before bringing in the Staff, the Parliament, again, with a two-thirds majority, must prescribe such measures. So we didn't get an answer to such questions. In the Club of HDZ Representatives, we argue that despite the fact that Croatia is under special circumstances, that HS is the foundation of art. 16. A constitution of this kind and laws shall be prescribed. And it's clear then, qualified by most of the 76 MPs. We, as you know, are the same, with the same possibility that we are given. 16. The constitution, passed the Law on the Protection of the public against infectious diseases and there it is prescribed that in Article. The 2nd law, that the minister of health in the Republic of Croatia will prescribe, is authorized to prescribe an epidemic, as Minister Beros has done as a resolution minister. Furthermore, we have prescribed, in the case of specific circumstances, the amendments and additions to the Civil Protection Act, which are then prescribed by the measures, by the Regional and Local Civil Protection Centres and the National Civil Protection Staff. So, all that is done is in accordance with the Constitution, it is in accordance with the law, above all the Law on the Protection of the public against infectious diseases and the Civil Protection System Act. Nothing that's done at headquarters level bounces and breaks through that legislative framework that's under the Constitution. and the laws prescribed. [[/Intruder: Thank you. Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195489	Thank you. Please stay here because we have four replicas. The first replica is from a fellow Scybol, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195490	Well, here it is, Mr. Bacic, almost all the club representatives have been discussing, and everyone has looked back at the need to introduce an electronic vote. In your debate, you never once referred to this constructive criticism, so I am interested, since it has already been discussed in public and Mr Kuščević said that the preconditions will come true in 2 years, and 2 years have passed. What does HDZ think of electronic voting at the moment? Because if there was such a possibility, we shouldn't be discussing this law at all today. And as for restricting certain rights, it is a radical measure to monitor every citizen of the Republic of Croatia. So, you didn't even suggest that only those in self-insulation should be monitored, but every citizen of the Republic of Croatia and not only should the two-thirds majority be sought but a consensus should be sought in HS if you want a ic with such a measure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195491	Thank you, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195492	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So, Mr. Schibol, I don't have any problems with the introduction of an electronic vote. Yes, of course. However, for the introduction of an electronic vote, there must be a legal assumption that we must make to enable the Republic of Croatia to vote electronically. I don't have a problem with that. The government is likely to demonstrate this, and as previously announced within a certain time limit, it is likely to make assumptions in order to approach the electronic vote. As for the Law on Electronic Communications or the Supplements of the Law on Electronic Communications, we are in the Club of the Representatives of the HDZ, respecting the amendments which have been tabled in the debate, taking the view that we will go with this law to another reading and any possible acceptable solutions that would control the implementation and enforcement bodies [[Intruder: Thank you]] to prescribe that law. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195493	Comrade Djujic, here you go. After him, a colleague of Anka Dark-Taritash, and then a colleague... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195494	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Bačić, you said that, I suppose we should assume that the Assembly should take over certain powers of the Crisis Headquarters or Civil Protection Headquarters. I think it's happening the other way around that the Civil Protection Headquarters is taking over certain powers of HS and we're not making up hot water here. So everything is prescribed by the Constitution and we're just looking for ourselves, we support most of the government's measures, most of the measures you're proposing, but we're asking for them to be adopted in accordance with the Constitution and with the constitutional provisions of the Republic of Croatia. The same thing is with this law we're discussing today. So we're all on track for the same solutions. Here, I was personally even inclined to accept the same thing as a reasonable measure that people who must be in self - isolation, and because of the many of them who violate self - isolation are placed under certain supervision. But when you said in "Open" that you wanted to oversee all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, then I gave up thinking about this little part that might be , be reasonable. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195495	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195496	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So, as far as the legislative framework is concerned, it is absolutely in accordance with the Constitution, and I told you what you did not answer that, I did not hear, so that you would make such a decision from Art. 17th Prepared? Would you then order that, for every smallest, smallest restriction such as the Murter blockade, whether a two-thirds decision or not should be taken here in the assembly, you did not say whether the market should be closed or not, for example, on Treshnyvac's salary should again be decided here or not by a two-thirds majority? That's where you plead, answer that question, that's the relevant question. What would you write with such a decision? What are you, what are you gonna be the level of decisions... Do you want to leave to the Civil Protection Headquarters? [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's what you're looking at, say it. I'm saying that what the Civil Protection Staff is doing, the National Headquarters, is every measure prescribed by the law. Read the Law on the Protection of the public, on infectious diseases. If something outside of it has done the headquarters then initiate the constitutionality procedure of such decisions I claim that everything that's been done is done. [[Intruder: Thank you]] in accordance with the Constitution and the law. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195497	A colleague of Mrak-Taritash and after her colleague Grumoja. Here you go, fellow Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195498	Thank you very much. Comrade Bačić, we are aware, therefore, of the extraordinary circumstances, not of the state of emergency but of the extraordinary circumstances. I'm sure none of us expected to be in session six months ago, that the assembly would be sitting in this hall, that there would be circumstances for us to be in session. And we are absolutely at the GLAS Club and in the GLAS we advocate that the assembly must be held and that it must discuss not only the points that require extraordinary circumstances but also the normal regular procedure because life must go on and life will go on under these or those conditions. I'm interested in one other thing, so the prime minister called all the opposition clubs to a meeting that was on Saturday and a meeting that was behind it on Monday. And then all the opposition clubs stood behind everything that the rulings decided and said okay, and in the assembly we will unanimously accept, which we are. When do you need an opposition and when you don't need one? For some of these things that go in law you decided to oppose You don't need to, when you're counting with opposition. [[Intruder: Thank you]] And when not. [[/Intruder: Here you go.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195499	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195500	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Mrak-Taritash, the council is sitting in this room not because of the Coronevirus but because of the earthquake. If it hadn't been for the earthquake, we'd be on our own, at our location in HS. So that's what it's supposed to be, that's what it's supposed to be. We're sitting this way because of the coronovirus in terms of which we don't have as many of us as we probably would have been or maybe less, I don't know, knowing the work of HS in the last 3.5 years. So that's one reason. As far as the measures proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia are concerned, the issue should be referred to the Prime Minister. I hope that on Friday we will discuss the measures that the government will propose tomorrow, and then there will be an opportunity for you to ask him the same question. Yesterday we held a regular session within the ruling majority's parties where we discussed, above all, the measures behind us, and he only pointed out in the harsh lines of the Prime Minister the measures he plans, not in detail. So through the laws, he introduced us to everything he intends to do. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195501	Thank you. And the last replica of your presentation of colleagues of the Grmo, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195502	Dear colleague Bacic, you said you personally don't mind an electronic vote. You stole the referendum that suggested it, but now you have a chance for correction. On this proposal for a law of the club MOST, whose president I also referred to the conclusion that HS obliges the Government to prepare amendments to the electoral laws that would allow electronic and correspondence voting. So here's the chance, if the government can go with these economic packages in one or two days, here's what the prime minister is going to suggest, and you're the president of the HDZ Club, then you can change election laws. Here, I expect your club to support this conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195503	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195504	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Grumo, you persistently, you and MOST deceive the Croatian public, no one stole a referendum but the initiatives that were supposed to collect 10% of the total electoral body in the Republic of Croatia were collected. That's what the government was all about, and it was obvious to the HS. The Constitutional Court also appeared on the proposal and constitutional suit. And after the Constitutional Court confirmed the government's position and us in the assembly, you keep trying to push the public as someone stole the referendum. No one stole the referendum. All the referendums that are in the Republic of Croatia, all the referendum initiatives that have collected a certain legal number of signatures are either implemented or implemented in a different way, but here could not be approached... the referendum because, as it was clearly established, and as confirmed by the Constitutional Court, the exact number of signatures provided for by the law was not collected. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195505	Thank you. Next is colleague Damir Mateljan. Here you go, fellow Mattelian.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195506	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Of all the points of the agenda that we received in preparation for this week, this is actually the only item of the agenda that corresponds to reality and that solves a particular problem that has brought us this crisis. I'm not saying other points of the agenda aren't important, I'm not saying bilateral relations with the United States aren't important. But put yourself in a situation of our citizens watching this today, watching from self-insulation, watching from quarantine, watching because they are at home and in isolation, but they are also because they lost their jobs because their employer no longer works. So, and these people, these citizens, when they're looking at us here today, can actually conclude that the actual session of the assembly isn't necessary, that really ours, our stay here isn't necessary. Perhaps I can even conclude that if no opposition is needed, I may conclude that the overall representation system in this country is not necessary and that all decisions can be made by the Government and by someone who advises the Government. However, the representative body is extremely important, it is most important and how important it is at national level, so it is also important at local level. So this law that is necessary and I really trust no one who is normal and who understands the problem of spreading the crown 16, this crown COVID-19, I no longer know what they call this virus, this one who is aware of this danger knows that the extraordinary elections in Orahovica and the Island cannot be maintained and that there is no risk that if hundreds of citizens are going to the polls and that, therefore, this one is spreading the possible contagion or that they are jeopardizing people around them. However, take the Mayor of the Island, Mayor of Orahovica, take this context of the situation, how will these two units of local self-government function over the next few months? It won't work, they don't have a budget, they don't have a body that can bring a budget, they don't have a body that can bring a budget rebalance. So they're completely trapped in a system where they can't, in which they can't act on all the other problems they bring, which brings up the problem of spreading this virus. What does this crisis really show us? He's showing us two things. First, it's so deep, so it's delayed, it's delaying the elections that are the constitutional category. And so I find it really strange that, if the ruling majority did not accept this opposition proposal, that this law I believe that the two-thirds majority of us would, in order to vote for it, which is why we do not go to the two-thirds majority where constitutional law is indeed in section 17. But you know that this crisis is telling us that our municipalities and our cities and our local self-government are dysfunctional, not capacitated and that in the long run they will not be able to cope with this crisis, in the long run they will not be able to deal with this crisis. So far, we're still working because this experience of the Civil Protection Staff, the experience of everyone that we've brought back from the last system, then from the Homeland War, still works in a way that stands in some people's hands. But this can't stand on some people, this has to stand on the system, and this system of local self-government isn't it, it's not, it's not, it's not, it's not compatible with this one, it can't deal with it, it can't deal with these problems. And why is that? Because this one, I don't think you should cry for spilled milk, but deep down, I'm deeply convinced that the next government that will come after, hopefully, the election that will be this regular, will have to do something that the governments before it haven't done, which is structural reform of local administration and public administration in order to be prone to deal with these challenges as it is before us today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195507	We have one replica, stay a second. A colleague, Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195508	Comrade Mateo, you have just said at the end of your debate that one of the future governments, or the next government, will probably have to have and must have the strength to bring structural reform to local self-government, as well as public administrations. Let's say this crisis has shown us that a large part of the public administration's affairs can be done digitally and on the line. So many services today are digitally performing certain administrative tasks, meaning government services, for our citizens. Now, I wonder why that's not possible, for example. Any prior to this crisis? So obviously these things were possible, and obviously these things can be carried out, and they just don't have a certain will to reform, and that's why it's one of the important issues that maybe should still continue to point at them and open them up and work on it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195509	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195510	Thank you very much. Comrade Djijic, our public reform system is simply not good, there is too much of it somewhere, there is too little of it somewhere, but it doesn't actually work the way it should work. The last law to which part of the state's authority has been passed to the county just shows that we are turning from hollow to empty and that we have no idea what to do to the public administration, and this is exactly the kind of situation that shows the value of the complex, the value of the capacitated and the value of the public administration that knows what it does, which has protocols that have people doing right, we unfortunately don't have these today.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195511	Thank you. A colleague, Zeljko Lenart. Here's your colleague, Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195512	Dear colleagues and colleagues. April 2nd at 00 is the deadline for handing over the list, the law is in force, the other is not passed. What should Mayor Orahovica and the Mayor of the City of Island do? Do they collect data and hand over lists or not? Did someone tell them that? It's not. We're talking about the law we should pass, who guarantees that he will be passed? No one. What do these people do and what should they do? If they don't hand over the lists and we don't pass the law, they've done the wrong thing, and if they hand over the lists, they've done the job for nothing. I know they're all scared of the virus, but believe me, this virus is the little baby that exists and what a pandemic might be like to rule. I think we need to learn to live with it, we need to educate the public how to protect and stand with the fact that technical elections could be held, but the only argument I'm going to accept here is from Mr. Hrelje so that all of us don't have the same chance for a pre-election campaign or an electronic election, or a classic election can't be held because everyone doesn't have the same position and can't get prepared for these elections, and so we don't need to discuss the electronic vote that is a normal future and some countries are already using it today. I repeat, we have malls where there can be 20 or 30 people at the same time that people are protecting themselves there? More complicated than in the election. The village shops work the smarter way one gets in, when the other comes out, can't that's how the election works? I can, for some future time. But I repeat, what should our mayors do today? In Orahovica, a member of the HDZ, a prominent HDZ member, will come, and HDZ has lost the elections there after several consecutive terms and is now taking over the city's management. What does that imply? That it should happen again under the influence of this. How will they work? Very difficult. Why don't these citizens say why the city isn't doing some of its basic activities? So we can hide in the mouse hole, but if we don't know how to protect ourselves from the virus, he'll find us in the mouse hole. Citizens need to know how to protect themselves, that's the basics. Economy, what do you think we peasants don't save the grain, we don't protect ourselves from, we don't do the spring seed, we're so scared of the virus, and we just don't get out of the house. What are we going to eat for a year? How long will it last in Western Europe, where do we import everything from? Very short. Now comes the charge of all the haughtiness of the system towards the village, the peasant, according to the OPGs who are tough and who here today oppose this injustice with the closure of the markets and try to organize themselves to survive. Believe me, they're so tough that you won't destroy them this way, but you're just making their lives harder, and you're making it more difficult for them to function. Someone today appealed to open green markets, I also appeal because it's not true that green markets can't be organised, that people who are in the country are taught to protect themselves from bacteria and the others are threatened so they don't know how to work on that market. Open green markets immediately so that people eat healthier food, not that we depend on what we bring from Europe. That's a bigger problem. How many people are going to get killed, how many people are going to lose their lives because they haven't done diagnostic checks or some basic things that should have put their lives at risk. All of these are threats to the Croatian people, perhaps even bigger than this pandemic is today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195513	Thank you, too. We're continuing an individual debate. Next up is a colleague of Domagoj Hajdukovic's. Here you are, colleague Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195514	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. So no one doubts that in these moments and situations like this we should not hold elections, at least we in the SDP don't see it that way. But what's problematic is two things, actually by me three. The first thing is that the government has stalled the process of calling for early local elections in Orahovica, for the island cannot speak for a long time, so we have long waited for the appointment of the Commissioner and then the second issue when the Commissioner is eventually appointed, it is a politically engaged person, it is a soldier of a political party, it is a prominent member of the HDZ, and it is actually sending a message "When you are tried, cadiya sues you". The HDZ is running an election process without gloves, so not transparently, and it should be asked whether there is a conflict of interest here, not entering the expertise, all other qualifications that a person has, but it is politically exposed. And the other thing, of course, was to vote this law or what to change in it, because it's a lot of things, now that I'm bad, I would say maybe deliberately left unaltered, first of all, time-consuming, and that's where I think the point is. Since it is about limiting freedom by the Constitution of guaranteed freedoms, which is the right choice I think should be adopted by the two-thirds majority in the Croatian Parliament. If the Parliament is ambushed, I don't see any problems adopting it with a two-thirds majority, that's a first. The second is, of course, the duration of time, since the emergency situation, or exceptional circumstances, is not clearly defined in the law because it is understood. But unfortunately, nothing is understood and anyone who is malicious can certainly abuse it. I would actually give you this whole situation both around this law and about the cell phone tracking law to paraphrase with a song that's prescribed to pastor Martin Niemöller, and it's a holocaust. I think you'll recognize her when I give you my version. First they came for freedom of movement, I didn't object because it was temporary, then they came for cell surveillance, I didn't object because it was temporary, then they came for democracy, I didn't object because it was temporary, then they came for me, and by then there was no one left to rebel and it wasn't temporary. And that is why colleagues and colleagues, we must make sure that all these measures that we are taking now, as counterpart Anka Dark Taritash said, are not cowardly eggs that later someone will be able to abuse and that these prophecies do not really come true that in the end it will not be temporary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195515	Please remain, we have one replica. A colleague of the Hill, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195516	Dear colleague Hajdukovic. In my individual debate, I have also asked the question of the morality of the appointment of Commissioners who is an active participant in a political party who participates in a political game in the local self-government unit and of course I share your opinion that this should not happen that way and that this should be seen tomorrow because these changes and additions do not foresee it, it should be a component of this law, but that with a lot more aspects than this law so far will cover this whole issue and all possible life opportunities. It could be there, for example. the conflict of interest would not be the first time to appoint a Commissioner in a local self-government unit that is in conflict with certain companies in the same city or municipality in the local self-government unit.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195517	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195518	I absolutely agree with this as much as the Commissioner is the one who temporarily exercises the authority of the city council in this case and by having the person politically exposed or active politician or politician to me casts doubt on the whole process, whether he will be truly transparent, impartial and in best democratic practice. So I think it might have had to be avoided. Thank you. .
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195519	Thank you. An individual debate between counterparts, Nikola Grmoy. Here's your buddy, Grmo.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195520	Dear colleagues and colleagues. I have already warned at the stop about some important issues and problems related to this law, but generally with measures taken by the government. So, my debate today will be brief, I clearly hope everyone understands. This law as well as many other laws and decisions that Parliament and other bodies make these days is motivated by this epidemic of the Coronal Virus. The crisis that occurred with that organism suspended our daily life, and that's what you've all been talking about in your discussions. People can't work and make a living, supply chains and services have been well cracked, shopping malls and, of course, this grocery store. There is in some way suitable for these large trade chains, and our OPGs and trades with different goods that are not just food types and are not supplies are in big problems, and they don't actually work. And we're all deprived of enjoying some of the freedoms that we had until yesterday seemed so simple and that were self-conceived. And now with this law we have come up with questions about another new restriction, in this case it is about the restriction and suspension of local democracy, of course not entirely, but in part as the colleague said temporarily during this epidemic, but we do not know how long it will last. So for the people who follow us, it's worth one more time to repeat that this Law on Local Elections proposes to postpone the early extraordinary elections in our municipalities, in our cities, in our counties during these so-called so-called elections. special circumstances like those in which we now live because of the coronary virus. So this law will apply in the current circumstances, these particular epidemics, but these legal provisions will remain permanent as part of the Law on Local Elections and will be able to apply in the future in any sufficiently similar crisis situation when some new special circumstances occur which the Government will treat in such a way. Since this proposal has the character of a legislative precedent in our electoral legislation, before we approach a decision on such an important matter, we need to get answers to those 3 questions that I asked and in the apartment, they weren't all of them, I don't know how many media follow, because of the people who follow I'm going to repeat the questions, but I'm going to explain them a little more. The first question is, by the logic of things, by itself. If we pass the Law today on the possibility of suspending early local elections, can we expect a similar proposal to appear on some other regular elections? Of course, I expect, and that's what my colleague Bacic did after my break that he would reject this possibility from the government's representatives with disgust, but the question is logical. If we claim that logistics cannot organise a few early local elections under the conditions of the epidemic, then I do not know how the government or anyone can argue that it would be possible to organise national elections such as parliamentary elections if this crisis persists or a new similar crisis arises. In that sense, I have large fences under this law as a possible precedent that introduces exceptions to small doors that could easily become a rule. Another question that bothers me, and that's what other colleagues have problem with, and that's what I'd like to get an answer for. He, he refers, I did not actually get this from my colleague Bačić to answer that question, referring to the problem of qualified majority to which this law should be passed. In fact, it is clear to all of us at the outset that this proposal is before us because of these special circumstances that have arisen as a result of the current epidemic of coronaryvirus, we also understand that it suspends the rights and democratic elections. And now this question still stands, can we bring this to a simple majority? And also, the third question means when did they come and when the special circumstances ended? And as for the electronic vote, we ask you colleagues to support the conclusion of the MOST Club, which we oblige the government to pass such a law.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195521	Thank you. I would like a little intervention, and then a colleague of Tomislav Panenić, club of representatives of the independent youth list. Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195522	Thank you very much. The esteemed colleagues and colleagues, after discussing this bill of law, what is clear that everyone will normally agree that under these conditions the current maintenance of any election is simply inhumane, unacceptable and what would be even more serious if we had the possibility that the inhabitants of these places, these municipalities and cities where these early elections should be held now, would be the answer so no one would even try to do so. Well, it's just enough to say you wouldn't even try but it shows that we've spent too much debate for something that's normal, human, and everyone accepts that moment. And, uh, this question that's been asked, should we hand over the list? The law wasn't passed in time. You should be teaching lists. I wonder what this responsible political option will hand over the list? Who would appear under these conditions and hand over the list to show we don't want to lose anything accidentally politically, so we'll hand it over just in case, and then if the law is passed okay, if we don't go to the election. I'd like to personally here and my club would like to see what kind of political option that would make it. But what we would yet warn about is precisely the topic we are discussing, which is the responsibility of the members of the representative bodies of these local self-government at the moment when they did not adopt the budget. Let's not forget that it's not just, it's not a budget document filed by a mayor or submitted by the mayor, the municipal chief, the municipal chief, but a document adopted by the representative body. The same representative body could have complemented its amendments also to supplement various issues which may be of interest and perhaps adopt a document that would have been a budget, and even if they had had too short time to agree, could have adopted temporary funding, but the situation already related to the possibilities opened by this law shows that this is part of a tool that can, intensively trying to bring down any form of government in any local self-government and then politics shows that it is the least responsible for its citizens. Someone might have thought back then that the past 4-5 months, maybe half a year at the latest until a new government is established, so they'll make up for it, but it turns out how short-sighted it was when we see some extras showing up, when some additional circumstances actually show up like this, which was really unexpected, isn't half a year anymore. The same time they decided not to adopt the budget, they could be aware that perhaps after the election, the situation would not change, so what would they do again? Then they would afford their citizens not to spend half a year in financial terms, but it would stand another half year. The key issue is political responsibility, if it had political responsibilities, real problems would be discussed. What I most often saw, which is that representatives, actually members of the representative body, city council or municipal council, usually just bring a position within their clubs that they do not want to accept a particular proposal. No one is even trying to justify themselves in some very detailed way but merely stating that the developmental budget is not in one way or another acceptable, but in fact, do not go into details and then make a decision that is at this point the most harmful for the citizens of the city of Orahovica, also for the people of the municipality of Island. And that's the problem we really need to get out of here, it's not a problem with this bill, it's going to be voted half-thirds, it's going to be voted on, but right now, those residents of these local self-governments are going to have a good run at their political representatives because they've put them in one difficult situation, and that might make it even harder for them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195523	Thank you, too. This concludes the debate on the final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Elections, at exactly 14 o'clock 11 minutes and 3 seconds.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195524	We move to a statement on amendments to the Final Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Elections. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives, GLAS Representatives Club, SDP Representatives' Club, SDP Representatives' Club, MOST's Representatives' Club of Independent Lists. Let's start with the Legislative Committee. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195525	Thank you very much. The esteemed amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195526	Thank you, thank you very much. The second is the amendment to the amendment of the GLAS Club, which is the amendment to Article 1. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195527	The amendment is not accepted. The intensity of the amendments to the law is not only the current situation related to the coronary virus but also the redefining of deadlines to hold early local elections for any particular circumstance that might occur.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195528	Mrs. Anka Mrak Taritash, let me just say the Secretary of State, Mrs. Katica Prpić, answers, so here you are, my slip. She's gone, well, so that amendment will be voted on. Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the SDP to Article 2 Here you go, Mrs. Prpic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195529	It's unacceptable. The deadline of 90 days shall be equivalent to the period laid down in the applicable law, which shall also be bound by certain circumstances, separation or resolution. At the same time, the Law on Local, Regional, Regional Self-Government provides for an even longer deadline for early elections and Article 85 is prescribed that if the action against the resolution on the disbanding of the representative body is rejected or rejected, the Government will call early elections for a representative body within 90 days of the date of publication of the decision of the High Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia in the National Journal. So-called elections will take place within a teaching period of not less than 30 days or longer than 60 days. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law stipulates that early elections should be held in the calendar year in which regular elections are held, and will not be held before they are held. As the regular elections are held on the third Sunday of May every 4 years, it is clear that situations where, for example, the representative body is disbanded in October in the year preceding the year of holding the regular elections are certain that these early elections will not take place within 90 days of the day of the release, but regular elections will be held in which members of the representative body who have been disbanded which may be more than 180 days since the release.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195530	Thank you very much. Mr. Bauk, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195531	This law is passed because of two, one city and one municipal council, Orahovica and the Island, and should be a law that is passed because of a special situation called Covid-19, and because of a special situation that will sometimes occur sometime. If it is passed as a special law because of all the situations that may arise, it is a disproportionate and large limitation of the right to local self-government and the right to democratic elections and to require 2/3 of the majority. And if it's brought about by these two things then it can get through Article 16. As you argued not to accept the amendments, it is obvious that it is a law that requires 2/3 of the majority because it is not, it obviously has no intention of applying only in these two cases. As a result, we felt that the deadlines for Orahovica and the Island should be 60 days from the end of the epidemic or special circumstances, primarily because if it lasts longer then we will come to the election year, so that for 2 years the two cities or 2 units of local self-government will be without the city or municipal council. So if this is Lex Orahovica and the Island, then let's approach it. If this is a desire to restrict the right to local self-government not only in this case, but also in some other cases that we can't predict, but brothers don't happen so often, then this requires a little wider discussion and I think this law is dangerous in that case. We are asking for a vote on the amendment and we are asking for an article on 2/3 of the majority in the vote on the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195532	So you're voting on the amendment? Okay. The third amendment is the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, it is an amendment to Article 1. Here you go, Mrs. Prpic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195533	It's unacceptable. The government of the Republic of Croatia is calling all local elections for members of the representative bodies and for municipal mayors, mayors, mayors and their deputies. The electoral system in the Republic of Croatia is governed by laws and organically. Article 83 The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia is prescribed that the laws which are developed by the constitution establish human rights and fundamental freedoms, electoral system, structure, detour and way of working of state bodies, and the establishment and part-round of local, regional (regional) self-government, the Croatian Parliament brings most of the votes of all MPs. The issue on which the Croatian Parliament decides 2/3 of the majority has been established by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Among these issues is neither the adoption of an electoral law nor the decision to postpone early local elections, which is to put aside the government's decision to call early elections. The delay in holding early elections in a situation of special circumstances does not entail a suspension of the fundamental rights on which the Croatian system rests. Members of Croatian bodies, representative bodies of units of local and regional (regional) self-government only and exclusively have the right to elect voters who have their place of residence in the area of a single unit, and by delaying early elections, they do not in any way affect the fundamental right of the voters to choose their representatives in the representative body.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195534	Okay. Thank you very much. Mr. Ice cream, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195535	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So we're asking of course to vote on this amendment, we think this is a decision that was to be made by a two-thirds majority. This decision concerns not only the ruling party but all parties in the Republic of Croatia, especially parliamentary parties. So it is a suspension of democracy and this is very important, so decision for Croatian citizens. We also ask the Croatian government to change urgently, therefore, in the original law, to allow electronic voting. You can see that now. This was one of the requirements and the referendum initiative "The People decide" which you actually stole from the referendum. So democratic rights, therefore, and rights, so people in the Republic of Croatia are kind of suspended, and we are actually making such decisions with this majority, so the ruling party. We consider this non-democratic and ask for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195536	Thank you very much. And now we have another proposal from the Alliance of Independent Lists Club. The proposal is for a conclusion which reads: By adopting the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Elections, which, due to the specific circumstances of the declared Coronavirus epidemic, provides for the possibility of delaying, please, the possibility of delaying the implementation of early elections in local self-government units, which has already been declared by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the HS confirms that at the time of the declaration, the declared epidemic, but also possible other special circumstances, cannot conduct elections because this would endanger the health and life of citizens. Such decisions were also made by some other European countries where regular parliamentary and local elections were to be held. Since it is impossible to predict the duration of the special circumstances of the current epidemics or their re-activated possible new epidemics and the inability to vote on citizens at polling stations, HS tasks the Government of the Republic of Croatia to propose amendments to electoral laws that would allow citizens to vote in another way, primarily through electronic voting and correspondence voting. Such legislative changes are necessary, taking into account the importance of the implementation of regular elections and the exercise of the constitutional right of citizens, that, in the law provided for by the deadlines in the elections, they decide on the selection of representative bodies at all levels and executives, and executive officials elected directly. I am now asking, firstly, that the proposer is showing itself on the proposed conclusion in terms of the legislator, of course. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195537	Thank you very much. HS is proposed not to accept the conclusion. At this point, it is not justified to oblige the Government of the Republic of Croatia in a proposed manner. The specific issue of adopting the Law amending the Law on Local Elections and prescribing possible delay in holding elections concerns only early local elections. As regards the introduction of an electronic or correspondence vote and in this respect the redefining of the complete electoral system in the Republic of Croatia, a broad public debate should be carried out on these issues involving all stakeholders, including representatives of the expert public. In doing so, all technical opportunities and their development should be taken into account by taking the necessary measures to protect against possible abuses. All of the above needs to be taken into account first and foremost the possibilities stemming from the existing constitutional solutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195538	Thank you very much. Mr. Grmoy, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195539	The Honorable Vice-President, the Honorable Representatives of the Government, has proposed this conclusion by which the HS obliges the Government of the Republic of Croatia to start, on an urgent basis, by preparing legislative proposals that would allow electronic and correspondence voting. We're in the election year. If you're going to hold elections at all this year, it's quite clear that you can't hold them, so until about 9-10 months, the question is whether it's going to be possible and then, we're asking you to propose HS regulations that will allow for an electronic correspondence vote so that we can have any elections in this year. You don't really think that when you've introduced such strict measures, you don't think you're playing with the health of Croatian citizens, you've risked the election within the HDZ, but we won't let you risk the health of Croatian citizens. We ask that you allow Croatian citizens to vote electronically and by letter, you have enough time until autumn to prepare legal proposals. We see how quickly the legislative proposals can be voted here in HS, go with it, I suggest this conclusion that you commit to do this, it is time for the Republic of Croatia to digitize, we see that it happens everywhere, and around e-passes and about other things, this is the time to finally enter the 21st century, to allow Croatian citizens to have the right to vote, to make it more accessible, MOST and to insist on it, the fellow Sladolev said it was also proposed by the referendum initiative, but unfortunately you stole that referendum. Now's your chance to make amends. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195540	Final proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Elections, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. number 886. The motion is Government, the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives, GLAS Representatives' Club, SDP Representatives' Club, MOST Representatives' Club of Independent Lists. We have held a statement on the amendments earlier in the session, and we will now vote on amendments that the applicant does not accept. The first amendment of the Legislative Committee was accepted. The second amendment, i.e. the first amendment of the GLAS Club, is not accepted by the Government, so let's vote. Who's in? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. An amendment to the SDP's Club of Representatives, the government does not accept. Who's in? I find that the amendment has not received the required number of votes. And the amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, the government does not accept. Please, let's vote. Who's in? I'm saying he didn't get the votes he needed. I am now voting on the final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Elections and stressing that it is in accordance with Article. 252. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament for the adoption of this law require a semi-half majority of all MPs, i.e. 76. Who's against it? Hold on, hold on, hold on, 'cause there's a lot of MPs against it, so we can count it correctly. Did you count it? Okay. Who's restrained? No abstentions, as far as I can tell. And who's in? Okay, please score now. I therefore find that most votes have been passed by the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Elections, 90 for, 40 against. ... Yeah, [[Intruder: You don't understand.]] All right, here you go. [[Intruder: Injury of the Rules of Procedure, please.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195542	Your Honor, Mr. President, an officer has been injured. 253. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the Croatian Parliament, which speaks of decisions that must be made by a two-thirds majority. In this particular case, it is a bill that has reduced the voting rights of Croatian citizens as well as the right to local self-government. In the light of the provision of Article 1(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council, the European Parliament and of the The Constitution, which is contained in Art. 253. The Rules of Procedure should have made 2/3 of the majority. That is why I protest and believe that you have violated the Rules of Procedure when you have determined that this law has been passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195543	Thank you, too. Here's your friend, Thunderbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195544	Thank you, Mr. President, I agree with my colleague, the coat of arms, so he's hurt. 253. It has been broken, in fact the Rules of Procedure and the Croatian Constitution have been violated. This law was to be passed by 2/3 of the majority, but not only was the amendment of the Most Representatives' Club, which was predicted by the SDP, but you rejected our conclusion that the Government of the Republic of Croatia should commit itself to the Government under the urgent preparation of laws that would allow electronic and correspondence voting.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195545	Thank you. Comrade Vucelic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195546	Dear Chairman Jandrokovic, as representative at HS, did you not continue to explain when you started to track Croatian citizens through their mobile devices? And have you started following them yet? Article 238 of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Please respond. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195547	Comrade Vucelic, I won't even give you a warning. And as for these two objections before, I believe we have acted in accordance with Article. 252. The Rules of Procedure of the HS and that this law, the adoption of this law, requires half the majority of all MPs. So, I don't think the Rules of Procedure have been hurt. You know in which way you will protect your representation rights if you feel that you should, if you consider that I did not properly interpret the Rules of Procedure of the HS. We still have a connection, so for this final bill of law and the conclusion proposed by the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, I will now read it. By adopting the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Elections, which, due to the specific circumstances of the declared Coronavirus epidemic, provides for the possibility of delaying the implementation of early elections in local self-government units, which the Government of the Republic of Croatia has already called, the HS confirms that at the time of the declared epidemic, but also possible other special circumstances cannot conduct elections because this would endanger the health and life of citizens. Such decisions were also made by some other European countries where regular parliamentary or local elections were to be held. Since it is impossible to predict the duration of the special circumstances, the current epidemic or their re-activatement of a new epidemic and the inability to vote on citizens at polling stations, HS tasks the Government of the Republic of Croatia to propose amendments to electoral laws that would allow citizens to vote in another way, primarily through electronic voting and correspondence voting. Such legislative changes are necessary in view of the importance of the implementation of regular elections and of the constitutional right of citizens to decide, in the legislative deadlines provided for in the elections, on the selection of representative bodies at all levels and executive officials elected directly. I therefore vote on this proposal to conclude which the Government does not accept. Who's in favour of that conclusion? Who's restrained? And who's against that conclusion? I find that the proposal for a conclusion has not received the required number of votes, and the result is. There it was, 19 was, no, no, no, the other way you wrote it, 19 was a conclusion, and 111 was against it. So the conclusion didn't get the number of votes needed.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195548	We continue with the next item of the agenda, which is: - Final proposal of the Law on the Centre for Special Care, Second Reading, P.Z. No. 804.; The Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 5(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia in relation to Art. 172. 190. The Rules of Procedure of HS. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to second reading shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Health and Social Policy, the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yes, please, we have the State Secretary at the Ministry of Demography, Family, Youth and Social Policy, Maria Pleikosa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195549	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, and Mr. Representatives. The Centre for Special Care is a public institution whose activity is to represent children and adults in proceedings before courts and other bodies prescribed by the law governing family relations. The establishment of the Centre provides for significant changes in the area of regulation of the procedural position and the exercise of the rights of children and adults in the judicial procedure, with a view to better protecting their rights. Furthermore, it allowed the separation of the two roles that the Social Care Centre had until then in the protection of the rights of children and adults and ensured their representation through an independent body, by representing the same special custodians who were lawyers with a legal examination. The creation of the Law on the Centre for Special Care has been accessed because of the importance and specificity of the activities carried out by the Centre for Special Care. This law defines the activity, financing and establishment of the Centre for Special Care with an emphasis on the possibility of setting up branches in Varazdin, Pula, Virovitica, Zadar, along with existing branches in Rijeka, Split and Osijek. In addition to this, in order to protect children's and adults' rights, the following professions are foreseen in addition to lawyers with a legal exam: social workers, psychologists and social educators. By way of derogation from paragraph 1, lawyers shall continue to carry out the tasks of a special custodian. Furthermore, conditions regarding the required years of work, additional education and skills are laid down for all professional workers. The draft final proposal of the Law on the Centre for Special Care, compared to the current draft law, differs in such a way as to further supplement the provisions of the law, in the sense that, as professional workers, social educators, other than social workers and psychologists, are also foreseen. It is prescribed that lawyers must have the expertise and skills necessary to communicate with a child or an adult. The provisions concerning notification, the end of the administrative council’s mandate, or a member of the Governing Council, have been further regulated. A provision has been developed concerning the establishment of a working relationship with another person in the event that the director is appointed to a person who has a contract at the Centre for work indefinitely. A procedure for the appointment of the chairman of the Centre for Special Care has been prescribed. The comments which have not been accepted are detailed. Following this, it is proposed that the Croatian Parliament adopt the Law on the Centre for Special Care. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195550	Thank you, too. We have two replicas. If you want to respond right now, then stay, if you'll later... Thank you very much. So, colleague Jeckov, here you go, and after her, a colleague, Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195551	Thank you, Madam Vice President. State Secretary. In the previous debate, the size of the work to be done by graduate lawyers has been pointed out several times. I wonder why you refused my proposal that trainees and trainees be assistants to graduate lawyers with a legal exam, given the amount of work they had in the previous period?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195552	Thank you. The secretary of state said she'd explain it later. I mean, he can go to the intervention whenever he wants. Here's your colleague, Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195553	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State, please respond as well. In view of all the objections we've seen in the public debate and the staff of the Centre itself, I don't think you've adopted most of the objections at all. I'm curious, when we talk about the name of the Centre itself, you explained it because it would not be in accordance with the Family Law, but it seems to me that the name and content of the law differs from each other. And one particular question, when we talk about members of the board, they are predicted by the three law, we are talking about reasons for disbanding the board of directors or the termination of the board of directors' office, there are several reasons, and then there must be one, let me say, bureaucratic reason, he says, for other justified reasons. Either wipe out that reason or wipe out these other reasons, it can only remain for justified reasons, that's why. That's my point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195554	Thank you. Does the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it? If not, then I am opening a debate on the final proposal of the Law on the Centre for Special Care, second reading, P.Z. No. 804. The first is on behalf of the Club of Representatives of MOST independent lists of counterparts Nikola, but according to this read. It's good. Next is my colleague Ljubica Maksimchuk from the HDZ Representatives' Club. Here you go, my fellow Maximchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195555	Thank you, Vice President HS, Your Honor, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Today, we have the final proposal for the Law on the Centre for Special Care. The Centre for Special Care is a public institution whose activity is to represent children and adults in proceedings before courts and other bodies prescribed by the law governing family relations. Its establishment was prescribed by the Family Law and was established by the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth on 14 July 2014. The constitutional provisions of the Republic of Croatia set out to protect children and powerless persons as well as to devote special care to the protection of persons with disabilities and their inclusion in social life to respecting the protection and promotion of human rights is a task arising from the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. The Republic of Croatia as a member of the UN and the Council of Europe, as well as signatories of important conventions and standards in the field of social and economic security, has assumed the obligation to protect and promote the human rights of children and persons with disabilities. Taking into account certain ambiguities and indeterminateness, and in order to protect children persons with disabilities, in particular with regard to the achievement of legal protection and access to court, and the quality of their opinion, and given the importance and specificity of the activities of the Centre for Special Care, this law should be adopted in order to benefit the most vulnerable group of companies. The establishment of the centre allows significant changes in the area of regulation of the procedural position and the exercise of the rights of children and adults in the judicial procedure, with a view to better protecting their rights. This draft law prescribes the activities of the Centre, public-authorities transactions and other professional business related to them, and the financing of the activities of the Centre. The establishment of the centre and the possibility of setting up its branches and bodies is also established. So far, we have had the headquarters of the centre in Zagreb and 3 branches of Split, Osijek and Rijeka. The regulation of the possibility of setting up branches through clear regulation of activities affects better performance, improving the quality of jobs, and improving the work of other systems such as courts and welfare centres. The composition of the Governing Council shall be prescribed, the way in which its members are appointed or elected, the duration of the term of office, the conditions for their appointment, and the reasons and treatment for the resolution of members of the Governing Council before the end of the term of office, and the way in which decisions are taken. Furthermore, the powers of the Director shall be laid down, the duration of the term of office, the conditions for the Director, the appointment of the Director, the way in which the Work Treaty is concluded. In relation to the draft law referred to in the first reading, the provisions of Art. 18, Art. Article 19 22. In a way that, as professional workers, social pedagogues are also predicted. Furthermore, lawyers are prescribed that they must have the expertise and skills necessary to communicate with children and adults. In addition, provisions concerning the obligation of the President of the Administrative Council to notify the end of the term of office of the Governing Council or of a member of the Governing Council, and for the sake of clarity and uniformity in the interpretation, a provision relating to the establishment of a working relationship with another person at the workplace of the person appointed as director has been developed. In addition, the procedure for the appointment of the Chairman of the Centre’s Expert Council for Special Care has been laid down. I would like to point out that the arrangement of the centre, how the arrangement of the centre enables the smooth continuation of the activity or insurance of children and adults to be represented in court proceedings by an independent body, as well as better protection of their rights, and the possibility of setting up branches and clearer regulation of activities has an impact on better quality of activity, improving the quality of jobs, and improving the work of other systems, courts and social care centres. In view of the above, the HDZ Representatives Club will support this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195556	We'll have a little intervention, then we'll continue with our colleague Goran Beus in front of the GLAS Club. Here's your colleague, Beus. Here you go, time, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195557	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I must say right away at the beginning that the Club of Representatives of the Civil Liberal Alliance, therefore GLAS will support this proposal in another reading, but I am using this opportunity to express this whole series, I would say in some way, the reserves, but also to inform you that the GLAS Club has referred it to the procedure and the two amendments that are trying to improve this text in a very, very critical element in this text. About that later. So, this bill rightly seeks to improve the legal framework for the action of an institution that is extremely important because it intercedes between problems such as what is the legal interest of persons who cannot appear independently in the protection of their own, above all civil rights. In particular, it is about persons who are assigned special custody. For such circumstances specific to their lives or for age or for other reasons, they cannot decide on their own or must have adequate protection in court proceedings which, of course, cannot be arbitrary, cannot be amateur or lay, but must be professional in particular with the requirement to preserve the highest level of interest of the persons concerned. Here I will mention, in fact, just to see what extent it is, that during 2019, so last year it was done on 10,285 items in which children and adults were to be represented, of which about 4,670 subjects were to be applied to children and 5,817 to adults. It is interesting that behind this proposal is a conservative government that, by improving the legislative framework, actually wants to show its sensitivity to this issue, wants the work of the centre raised to a higher level to turn it into an independent institution, introduce an administrative council, open a space for the engagement of a wider circle of experts on these issues, and in fact remains an unaccounted for what is a fundamental issue, what is behind all that the existing ministry swearing to the highest standards of child rights actually does generally on this plan? Since this government has gotten some sort of superficial impression that these activities have been in such a hurry, and we actually don't see any single result, let's just start with the fact that how many children are currently housed. The story of fostering, the story of adopting children to a large mouth, and we as the Croatian Parliament have been discussing it very intensively for three years now through various cases. What is the ministry, what are social care centres, what have homes done so far that this number of very many children who are now in homes is actually being reduced? No, we even try to prevent the opportunities we have, which is to expand the circle of those who are interested in adopting and fostering children in all possible ways and this goes to the point that even social care centres do not want to even respect the law, the question of whether they will now respect the Constitutional Court's decision. And it's about children who deserve love, warmth, families who deserve everything before they deserve institutional imprisonment, especially those who are hard to adopt, who are hard to adopt because of their diagnosis, so if you want to because of their ethnic background. It's a practice, it's our practice, we have to face it with our eyes open. Whether this centre will help to reduce problems like this, to really protect the interests of these children at the highest possible level, but not just declaratively, but to really go from being a child’s first and primary interest. When we talk about these people, of course, there are adults who have lost their business ability or the ability to reason, but the children are in the first place. But it's a good thing it doesn't turn out that on one proposal that's formally viewed as good now we're crying and moaning, I won't go on, it's a direct responsibility of this ministry and this furniture, but I'm going to say why we've submitted two amendments. Articles 10 and 24 define how the most responsible persons and professional centre workers can be recruited, which is unthinkable that anyone has ever thought of the idea of keeping items 2 of these articles which speak of even the worst criminals following the expiry of the rehabilitation period being able to work without a problem at the centre. So, we remind ourselves, it is among other things a catalogue of crimes mentioned in Articles 10 and 24, including acts of sexual abuse and exploitation of a child, crimes against marriage, family and children, and also crimes against marriage, family and youth. There's no theoretical logic, any explanation that anyone who's in a pedophile registry can even apply to this job. It doesn't matter that he served his prison sentence and that his rehab deadline expired. This must not happen, these people can do something else, but certainly do not represent children in court and in legal affairs in front of other institutions. I'm sorry, but that needs to be said out loud and clear. It may not have been intentional and it was going to be generalized here, so St. 2 says the provision of 1st Points 3 through 5, which is a very, very long text does not apply to those who have been rehabilitated. Okay, it's okay, it's about legal representation so some crime, I don't know, for payment security, a crime against working relationships, etc., there's no problem that's something else. But whatever has to do with children, families and young people shouldn't go under this radar. In that sense, we will do well if we do so. Article 10 24. We simply drop St. 2. which says that this exemption provision does not apply to persons who have been rehabilitated, there is no need for that. We should be careful if we have already declared the intention of this law, then the real interests of children, young people and other people whose special custody is particularly necessary, or representation in legal matters in which they cannot do so themselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195558	Thank you, too. A small intervention, followed by Karolina Leakovic in front of the SDP Representatives' Club. Here's my colleague, Leakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195559	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Before I put a few views on, therefore, on behalf of the club, on the final proposal of the Law on Special Care Centre, I would actually like to take this opportunity and the presence of Mrs. To ask her where is this Ministry of Demography, Family and Youth and Social Policy today when it comes to the measures taken against the coronary epidemic? What is the situation with our most endangered citizens and citizens and groups for which in some ways the Ministry of Demography, family and youth and social policy is competent? So we know that the most vulnerabilitating groups in our society were people with disabilities, whether it was children, whether it was homeless people, persons at risk of poverty, and we know that there are at least 20% in the Republic of Croatia, so at least before the outbreak of this crisis, and I really want to warn this opportunity very briefly and on the tip-offs we are now witnessing, which is that what women groups who have been dealing with violence against women and violence in the family are saying for years, and this is that home is not for all women the safest place. So, today, in the situation where we stay in our apartments, we know in our homes that unfortunately there is an increase in violence against women and children, domestic violence, that it is necessary to organise not only volunteer psychological support, but also a state-organised psychological support, so I'm going to take advantage of what Mrs. The pleikosa with us to introduce us to what the ministry is doing because, unfortunately, from the minister at least me, I haven't had a chance to hear anything, as if she's been missing in the past few weeks. And now something about, therefore, this law in the second reading, about the final bill. In principle, when the law in the assembly is adopted in two readings, in the recommended legislative procedure, and we know that this is unfortunately not such a common case, we bring a lot of things in a matter of urgency, and what is not necessary and what is not necessary, this ordinary procedure has its own logic and has its own reasons, and this logic is such that between the first and second readings of the bill, it is done and that at least some of what MPs and MPs had the opportunity to say in the first reading, so that after the adoption of that law is not some stumbling blockstone or subject to interpretations from case to case, that it does not open up a space for legal uncertainty and ultimately not be able to interpret the provisions itself so that the reasons for its adoption are played out. I must admit that this Final Proposal for a Law on the Centre for Special Care, regardless of the different claims made by the Proposer, has actually not been significantly improved in this second reading compared to the text discussed at the beginning of this year, so in January. A number of comments were sent to him at that time. He was given numerous remarks and, first of all, from the Centre for Special Care, very interesting in on line counseling. At that time, MPs and MPs warned of indetermination, superficiality, inconsistency with the Family Law. And I would now say that it should actually be added, and in some parts of it it seems to me to be a predetermined normity or some kind of bureaucratism that seems to me to be still marking this law because it deals with the momentarily, I would say to my own force of administrative and organisational issues, human rights, of course, that they should be dealt with by law, but not by ignoring the very purpose of its adoption, which is the achievement of the rights of children and adults in precisely defined situations, so representing courts and other bodies of public authority, the protection of their interests, so special custodians, lawyers and lawyers with a passed judicial exam which today is certainly too little at that centre, which are overworked cases. We heard there were more than 10,000 cases in the last year alone. Therefore, they have the task of performing in the best interests of the child or adult. In this context, we advocate, therefore, that the work of the Centre for Special Care is improved financially and organised in order to ensure adequate reception of special custodians, and that their services are evenly available throughout the Republic of Croatia. So will this law, which provides for the establishment of new branches in a few more cities, do so, be seen. However, it is also necessary to point out the need to ensure conditions for the work of special custodians in terms of the regulation of minimum standards. The Centre for Special Care should, in any case, be an institution of trust of those whose voice when it comes to their rights would not have heard and could not have heard and understood that the centre is not and therefore it is important to build an institution, not for its own sake and not to be able to say that we also have in the Republic of Croatia and not because it is prescribed by law only because of this, namely, those who have sufficient human and financial capacities and resources to meet all the needs of the protection and promotion of the best interests of the child or of an adult. And in this context, we have to say that they're actually worrying about information that floats, so public space, about the violated human relations in the center, in the institution, about dissatisfaction with working conditions, organisation of work. And you probably remember that we were able to read about inappropriate behavior and even abuse at work in the media a few months ago. Such a reputation center does not need and does not allow us to believe that the mere passing of laws and does not allow us to believe that the mere passing of laws will, therefore, solve these problems because workers or employees are obviously overworked, exposed to quite different influences related to individual processes or cases, exposed to stress and lack of time, and therefore arises in situations where the guardians may not have even spoken to a child or an adult whose rights and interests should be represented. So if we know that there were about 10,300 items in the last year, it would mean that a special trustee has several hundred cases in the portfolio, which means several hundred human fates, very complex cases that require highly professional legal and communicational and psychological competent approach. And in these circumstances given the number of employees in the centre it seems kind of to me at the edge of endurance and therefore it is necessary to hire new lawyers and lawyers with a passed judicial exam, much more and much more before it is necessary to employ other experts and experts such as psychologists, social educators, educators and social workers. They are needed first of all in the social care system because this system is, of course, under-capacitated and instead of learning lessons from recent unsuspecting events, domestic violence against women and children, and to strengthen the social care system as a public service we now and in this institution are adding, in fact, professions that are not so necessary. However, the government did not pay attention to the remarks and warnings about the kind of parallelism that can be shown in practice by this law, so you continue to, with insistence on your ideas and I'm sorry to say it, but it seems to me that you may be being denied by practice. In any case, the law seemed to me to be much better, more passing and more structured. In this case, I am afraid that we will actually have to rely on good will, commitment and, in the end, on the moral principles of employees and in this sector, and this also applies to the social care sector. In the same way, and still in this crown crisis, we are actually relying on and relying heavily on good will, commitment, expertise, moral principles of health workers and workers after almost devastationing the public health system that has remained since the '90s. Maybe, I'm saying maybe we're learning something now in this context, so also in the health sector, and maybe Madam Secretary of State learns how to actually do state intervention or by ensuring decent working conditions and in this sector, we're actually protecting the rights of disproved, marginalized and powerless, and we're doing what it's supposed to be, not depending on someone's will or on the case. So we're going to decide how we're going to vote on this law, but we think he could and had to be much better, and we're hoping you might. in another opportunity to be able to intervene more strongly in its content. [[Intruder: Finish.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195560	Thank you, thank you, before fellow Panenic a small intervention, thank you. A colleague, Panenić, a Club of Representatives of the Independent Youth List. Here's my colleague Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195561	It's just a time of crisis, a social crisis where you can actually show up to be the best, and it's also the worst cost of any system. Looking at the system of generally social care in the Republic of Croatia whoever comes from any local level will only tell you one thing, and that is that it is inadequate, that it is too slow, that it does not recognize or if he recognizes not reacting. We had a previous debate about local elections, but believe me, in any smaller local environment, one municipal government or city government, especially those smaller towns know especially all those problematic situations, those families that are dysfunctional where intervention would be necessary and they themselves at times and when they urinate can't be surprised why the welfare centre doesn't react, and it's especially difficult to monitor when you have a child at risk in a family. And we are constantly talking about the sub-capacitation of the social care centre, here we are talking about one institution, an institution that should be a self-port center for social care and, in fact, a policy that the centre implements, ultimately more professionally implement and, on the other hand, provide support in a number of issues that are primarily the legal protection of those who find themselves in these situations that need to be provided additionally, especially in some procedures. And then when we look at the bill that we're going to say politically correctly, the question always arises whether after its adoption, the whole system will be better. Whether the rights of the child will be better recognised, better protected, better focused on a future or will always, in the end, be aware that there are institutions, there are entities who should work their jobs, but ultimately the biggest psychologist, lawyer or someone else is the head of the local self-government that talks with these people, tries, persuades, and all knows that it is not within his powers that he has under any law or even has the possibility to request ultimate treatment or to be notified of everything that has been done in this matter, and then we meet with tragic family cases that, when you enter their homes, you realize that they are just cases on paper. The state has simplified it, let's give them some basic rights, they're mostly financial and let some sort of they fight themselves and everyone will just say, these are problems, these are problematic families, it's a troubled child, it's a troubled person and in some way, as we are now struggling not to stegmatize those who are infected, and we've allowed those who are socially endangered, who are in families where they can't exercise fundamental rights. The question was not answered by this bill. I agree, the Centre should be strengthened by capacity, should be stronger, stronger, in some way set standards, that all those who are going to threaten any right realize that in the end it is the system that will fight it. And it is justified to ask the question if this law is passed, if additional resources are provided, if more people are employed, do we have a better basis for improving the system. In the experience that so far, somehow everyone's only talking declaratively, and in reality it's left to those who are most threatened to fight themselves, to somehow push that life out and finally, when we look at the situation right now, who are now the police in implementing these measures of social disunity, to call who is the most treated? It is with those who are left alone, who have no life, with families that are dysfunctional, and they are in it so deep that they no longer understand any social responsibility or need. And when a cop makes them, if we are, we should ask the question, did the system do its whole job? Are these persons recognized, whether they were given all the help they needed, which is primarily psychological, whether sanctioned inadmissible behavior in a family when it was in the beginning or left to do so, and then after the passage of a certain time, we see that the problem has grown and has become significantly larger. Experience from my community when we were implementing a program that was just funded by the Republic of Croatia, trying to work with such families, helping them, setting up homes where they live, meeting with things that someone who has a normal life, having a normal life, is hard to understand, and then just figure out how much time we stayed in society and trying to have good legislation that will act seriously in each of our articles, but in the implementation it failed. And then the key question is, if we're talking about a center like this, is it supposed to exist as a special unit? Why it is not an integral part of the Social Care Centre, so perhaps in this synergy it would be more efficient or it is very necessary to have another institution that is re-supplyed, we just multiply institutions that each has observations, and in the end, it itself had an objection to the law relating to it. Enough to say that an institution that needs to carry out a key one, address the key social threat problem, has an objection to a law that one political option, the ruling option suggests. And then it should be imagined that these people who now have an objection should later be eager, supporters of the implementation of just such a law. And I think there's a big problem here, and there's a problem with that, and there's a club that I'm talking about today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195562	Thank you, too. We're continuing the debate on behalf of the clubs. Next is counterpart Dragana Jeckov in front of the SDSS Representatives' Club. Here are my colleagues, Jeckov.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195563	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I also took part in the debate when there was first reading and I gave a series of objections that were not respected, which is why I regret and feel that they were very correct, that they were aimed at improving this legislative proposal, but good. Nevertheless, in this case, and I now believe that this legislative proposal has very positive elements, and above all, as has been shown in practice that in order to make the Centre more effective, this topic should be regulated by a special law and I consider it a positive and additional extension of the Centre's activities to other professional jobs related to the representation of children and adults. In view of the importance and specificity of the operation of the centre, this part and the law should be regulated. I believe that any proposal aimed at the professional empowerment of the centre experts further strengthens experts and the protection of children and adults in court proceedings and other bodies by attaching greater importance to respecting the opinions of these persons. Furthermore, I believe that the arrangement of the centre will allow for a smooth continuation of the activity, i.e. insurance for children and adults, therefore adequate representation in judicial proceedings by an independent body, as well as better protection of their rights. Given the specificities of the centre and the possibility of setting up a branch, I expect that just better availability of the centre will ensure smooth work and improvement of organisational and professional issues. In fact, it is one of the most important parts of this law, and it is precisely this part that is expected to make the biggest and most significant changes. The final draft of the law in relation to the proposal therefore also includes social pedagogicals and the provisions of Articles 18, 19 and 22 have been completed as professional employees at the centre which was one of the main objections in the first reading. Therefore, it is clear that the terms of the years of work for professional workers, compulsory education of expertise for legal professionals and obligations regarding the working experience of additional expertise, skills and competence of social workers, psychologists and social educators are laid down. Furthermore, the obligation to adopt a regulation that will be more closely regulated by the necessary training of expertise, skills and competences. It is also good that, with the new normative solution, lawyers are required to have the expertise and skills necessary to communicate with a child or an adult, which is also very important because of the specificity of this job. Moreover, the fact that further arrangements are made regarding the obligation of the President of the Administrative Council to notify the end of the term of office of the Governing Council or a member of the Governing Council and to do so is therefore important for the sake of clarity and uniformity in the interpretation of the provisions developed relating to the establishment of a working relationship with another person on the job of the person appointed as the Director. There is as we have the opportunity and see the prescribed and procedure of appointing the president of the expert council of the centre. All in all, it is important to regulate and specify the role of the President of the Governing Council simply to know the powers and to know the frameworks in which it should act. We therefore see the composition of the Governing Council, the way in which its members are appointed, the election of the president, and the duration of their term of office, the conditions for their appointment and the treatment of members of the Governing Council before the end of the term of office, and the way in which decisions are taken. So, all in all, one normative story that needs to be made more precise by this legal proposal. Once again, I will return to the proposal, on my proposal which was not only mine, in the first reading they spoke and, said counterpart Željka Josić and my colleague Ivan Celič, that therefore the graduate lawyers with the legal examination passed by the administrator were provided with both trainee and trainee assistance and I regret what I said was not taken into account because I still believe that we would get trainees who would certainly get the necessary knowledge and experience with the mentor’s job done through that year and a half or two. It was a good proposal and it should have been as such recognized and included in this legislative proposal, not explained by one argument that really does not stand, which is the specificity of the activity that the centre performs, certainly that this argument cannot be satisfied, to satisfy my proposal that I have spoken fully of. It must be known and I recall that this legislative proposal had 55 comments in the public debate, from which even 47 gave a centre for special custody. 10 were accepted, and 26 proposals were rejected, so we did not listen to the profession, and in the second reading we did not listen to it, we did not listen to those who do the most concrete and the most direct work, and they referred us to what the problem was, but apparently they were not listened to, so the special custody center did tell us something, or his employees, and this legal proposal ignores those messages that we received. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195564	Thank you. The next debate on behalf of the HSS and Democrats' Club is because of the debate of counterparts Kresa Beljak. Kreshe Beljak does not have and in accordance with Article 233(3), the representative loses the right to speak to this item of the agenda. We are now continuing the individual debate, but before the individual debate one technical notice for all the members and members of the club located in this room. So, tomorrow after the second item of the agenda, and this is the Final Proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the United States, we add the third item of the agenda that was due on Friday, which is the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on regulated professions and recognition of foreign professional qualifications, because Friday will be a debate on this set of laws of the Government of the Republic of Croatia concerning the economy and citizens. So you know we have two points tomorrow, and I apologize tomorrow we have three points, not two points. We continue with an individual debate, the next colleague is Marija Mačković, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195565	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear State Secretarys, MPs and MPs, we have before us the Final Proposal for the Law on the Centre for Special Care, which the Government of the Republic of Croatia referred to in the Parliament on 19 March 2020. Years. In the first reading of the proposal of the same law discussed 17. In January this year almost all the representatives who participated in the debate agreed that the Centre for Special Care should continue to exist, that it should be strengthened with staff capacities and financial capacity. Family law provides for the establishment of a centre for special care as a public institution whose activity is to represent children and adults in proceedings before courts and other bodies prescribed by the law governing family relations. The founding rights of the centre has the Republic of Croatia, and the rights and responsibilities of the founders are carried out by the ministry responsible for family affairs. There are 3 dislocated units in Osijek, Rijeka and Split to carry out the activities of the centre. The establishment of the centre allows for significant changes in the area of regulation of the post-legal position and the exercise of the rights of children and adults in the judicial procedure, with a view to better protecting their rights. Furthermore, it allowed the separation of the two roles that the Social Care Centre had until then in the protection of the rights of children and adults and ensured their representation by means of a more independent body by representing the same special custodians who were lawyers with a legal examination. The constitutional provisions of the Republic of Croatia set out to protect children and powerless persons as well as to devote special care to the protection of persons with disabilities, their inclusion in social life, and respect, protection and promotion of human rights, is a task arising from the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. As regards the final draft of the law, given certain indetermination and ambiguity in the applicable regulations governing the structure and part-time of the centre, and taking into account the obligation to protect the rights of children and adults guaranteed by national and international documents, the clearer, more precise regulation of certain areas as well as the regulation of the so far-determined areas with a view to improving the effectiveness of the exercise of activities directly affects the protection of the rights of children and persons with disabilities whose representation constitutes the core of the activities of the centre, in particular with regard to the exercise of legal protection and access to the court and the quality of their views. In accordance with the above, and given the importance and specificity of the operation of the centre, it is most appropriate to regulate it by a new special law. The meaning of the centre is also related to the scope and activity they have been carrying out during these years, for example. In 2017 there were 5,635 items, 2018 7,088 items, and during 2019 10,285 items were received, of which 4,674 cases were related to children and 5,817 to adults. This law allows, inter alia, the establishment of a branch office of the centre to ensure better territorial availability of the centre to children and adults represented. Furthermore, it enables the employment of professional workers of other professions or social workers, psychologists and social educators who have professional competences, additional knowledge and skills in relation to communication of obtaining opinions in a way that respects the age and maturity of the child and the functional ability and specificity of each individual child or adult at the same time protects the best interests of the person and enables them to actively engage in decisions on the exercise of their rights and interests. So in any case, I welcome the adoption of the Law on Special Care because I think the law is something good, something that will allow people who are in need to receive quality care and protection for their own good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195566	Thank you, too. We're continuing an individual debate. Col. Lenart Article 233, colleague Hajduković Article 233. Whether the secretary of state wants to be given what you said, so that's the end, if you want to think the rest is, I think the two colleagues here who have referred you some questions, so you can answer them, here's a tip to give you. I mean, if you want to, if you don't want to, you don't need to listen to my advice. Thank you. Please, State Secretary Maria Pleikosa on behalf of the motionary, intervention.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195567	Thank you, Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, here I would now refer to certain questions that we had in mind. Mrs. Jeckov mentioned that we didn't, that we didn't follow her proposal. In fact, the trainee is a person who is first employed in the profession for which she was educated in order to train for independent work through practical work and learning. As special custodians, lawyers in the centre represent a child or an adult before a court or other bodies but only on condition that they have a judicial examination and are named by a social care or court centre. Therefore, this does not leave an opportunity for an intern to be able to work independently with practical experiences. In addition, other professional workers carry out a specific activity segment involving obtaining the child’s and adult opinions, informing a child or an adult in the case of a dispute. In addition, it is necessary to bear in mind the specificity of the activity the centre is carrying out. As far as these other really constructive discussions are concerned, I thank them and, as I announced at the beginning of the debate, the creation of this law was due to the importance and specificity of the activities carried out by the Centre for Special Care. The professional institution shall continuously work to increase the professional staff and to ensure the equipment necessary for the Centre for Special Care. Here, I can indicate that since 2016 there have been 4 special custodians, 1 administrative employee, 1 accounting employee, during 2018 we gave 2 consents for vacant jobs as well as in 2020. In the meantime, I would like to mention that the Centre for Special Care has received 13 own vehicles, and 3 vehicles are based on a temporary use contract for each of the branches of Zagreb, Rijeka and Split. So they all have 16 cars. As for the increased number of cases, this particular increase in the number of cases was due to a review of the procedures for the deprivement of business capacity in courts. Now I would refer to these comments, or remarks concerning the ministry's work during this crisis. I would like to mention that the ministry has provided all necessary personnel in due time for better quality service delivery. It is known that from the first day, actually before this crisis took hold of this mah, we have sent instructions on how to deal with the needs of temporary accommodation in crisis situations. I would like to stress that all our institutions, all our service providers are working and all institutions in the social care system to protect users on accommodation and in regular conditions ensure disinfection and necessary protection of equipment precisely with a view to preserving the health of the users to whom the services are provided. In order to ensure additional sanitary equipment since the start of the virus coronation in the Republic of Croatia, the ministry has continuously obtained all available equipment and I must stress that, in continued cooperation with the national crisis headquarters, we have just sent in cooperation with them a decision on a justifiable ban on social care institutions, thus providing accommodation to children, young people, as well as instructions on specific measures to protect relations on concrete treatment in institutions. We've secured room for, the facilities have secured room for self-insulation or quarantine if needed. As far as sensitive groups are concerned, we are in constant communication with representatives of the City of Zagreb in charge of the management of the population at risk, especially parents of children with disabilities and people with disabilities. We have a permanent, we have a crisis headquarters at the Ministry which is available for 24 hours, we have opened the address of the Crown Ministry of Demography, Family, Youth and Social Policy, the entire team of people for 24 hours answers the questions, all of our professional workers, regardless of being divided into Group A and Group B, is this, one part is at home for security reasons, all of them are, uninterrupted about service providers, both of those we are founders, so decentralised homes, associations with which we have contracts. So we're doing everything that we're constantly in a relationship to solve all the problems we're facing, and here I think this is a moment for a very high degree of responsibility for each individual, so it's about a time in which we need to show solidarity and help the most vulnerable groups. I would also refer to this law if I were to say that in addition to our work on increasing the professional staff and providing the necessary equipment for the centre, we sought to respect all remarks that would contribute to the quality of the Centre for Special Care. Finally, I thank again everyone who has helped to make quality rules with their contribution and I propose to the Croatian Parliament to pass the Law on the Centre for Special Care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195568	Thank you, I am also concluding the debate on the final proposal of the Law on the Centre for Special Care, Second Reading, P.Z. Number 804, the time of the hearing 15 hours, 11 minutes and 48 seconds, and we will vote when the conditions are met. I wish you all a pleasant rest of your day's work, tomorrow we continue as I said from these three points of the agenda. Goodbye. SESSION DISCONTINUED
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195569	We move to a statement on amendments to the Final Proposal of the Law on the Centre for Special Care, which is also the last law to be discussed today on the subject of the amendment. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the GLAS Representatives Club and by the 2 amendments. The first amendment concerns Article 10. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195570	Thank you very much, Vice President. Appreciable representatives and representatives of this amendment shall not be accepted. Article 8 Infringement law is prescribed that the offender who has been found legally guilty and subject to criminal sanctions or has been released has the right after a certain period of time and under the conditions laid down in a criminal law to be deemed not to have committed an offence, and his rights and freedoms cannot differ from the rights and freedoms of those who have not committed an offence. Article 18 The law on the legal consequences of a conviction, criminal record and rehabilitation is prescribed that the perpetrator of a criminal offence which has been convicted or has been released has the right after the expiry of the law of a given time and under the conditions laid down in this law shall be deemed to be a person who has not committed a criminal offence, and its rights and freedoms shall not differ from the rights and freedom of persons who have not committed a criminal offence. Following that, data from the criminal record or criminal record shall be deleted after a certain period of time for those persons. The information on the offence or offence is no longer available, which is why it is not possible to accept that amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195571	... means going to the vote of this amendment and Madam Secretary of State, Mrs Maria Pleikosa will now be shown about the second amendment relating to Article 24. [[Specially enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195572	This amendment is not accepted, and since the argument is the same as for the previous amendment, I don't think there's any need to repeat it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195573	Thank you, too. Both this and that amendment go to the vote. Now I'm concluding this part of the session we're continuing, you have to tell me what this is about.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195574	The voting schedule also includes the Law on Electronic Communications, and we have not shown ourselves on amendments, nor on government, nor on us.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195575	Okay, I've got these amendments, which means in other words that the government will propose something else during the vote, and...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195576	And no, you've given the vice president a MOST Club to explain his conclusion, otherwise it's not, it's not a custom, so maybe you should give the HDZ Club to explain its conclusion, I wouldn't want them to feel damaged by your actions under the Law on Electronic Communications.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195577	I'm sure he will, so I believe he'll explain it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195578	And I would like to hear the government's testimony to the HDZ conclusion that the government is against HDZ would already further destabilise our scene. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195579	Mr. Bauk, look, the MOST gave me the conclusion, the HDZ didn't give me a conclusion, so I don't have anything to read. Probably that conclusion will be made during the vote, and if you ask me to suggest, that I read one conclusion that I didn't write, then we're on the wrong track, and you and I, right. So I don't have anything to read because there's nothing in my papers here. When the time comes for this natural thing that in the spirit of best parliamentaryism you will be able to show yourself about such a case that first appears. Here you go. Is there anything else you want to say? No, neither do I. I'll see you at 12. It's a date.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-01-0.u195580	Final proposal of the Law on the Centre for Special Care, Second Reading, P.Z. number 804. The motion is Government, the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the GLAS Representatives Club. We had a statement earlier at the session, and the amendments were filed by the GLAS Representatives' Club. The statement we made earlier in the session and now we will vote on amendments, that 2 are amendments that the government does not accept. It is the first amendment of the GLAS club, so the government does not accept. Who's in? I'm saying he didn't get the votes he needed. And Amendment No. The 2nd same club is not accepted by the government. Who's up for the amendment? I'm saying he didn't get the votes he needed. So I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on the Centre for Special Care. Who's against it? Who's restrained? Who's in? I find that most of the votes were passed the Law on the Centre for Special Care, and the result was, 4 were against, 24 abstentions and 101 was in favour. Thank you.
