ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u9627	Good morning, honourable MPs. Before we move on to a representative club position, I will propose an addition to the agenda of the 4th session with one point. This is a proposal to launch a trust issue with Tomislav Ćorić, Minister of Economy and Sustainable Development in the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and is proposed by 40 representatives in the Croatian Parliament. How am I based? C.E. 125.D. 3. The Rules of Procedure of the HS shall include the proposed item in the agenda without decision, i.e. the proposed item is included in the agenda of the 4th session. We will now go to the position of clubs, then we will have a statement on the amendments to the budget rebalancing and the Final Proposal for a Rules of Procedure, then we will move on to the Final Proposal of the Law on Posting Workers in the Republic of Croatia and cross-border implementation of decisions on fines, and a joint debate on the Proposal for a Deposit Insurance System Act and the Proposal for a Law on Forced Liquidation of Credit Institutions and then Interpelling on the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in connection with the project of the Wind Power Plant Krš-Padjene. So that's the plan for today. The second is the discussion of the SDP's Club of Representatives and the respected representative Ban Vlahek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u9688	Dear President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, I will dedicate my free speech to health and health care and this time because I believe that we are in a situation where each of us must make a contribution to the analysis of the situation and to propose a solution. Of course, the basis for that will be the situation in the area I come from and the voters I represent. I will repeat once again that the availability of healthcare must be uniform. Health system policy must be the same for all if you are being treated in the same category of health systems. There are no equal and equal, no north and south of Croatia, no none of yours and ours. All citizens are equal and care is given to everyone and equal access. Unfortunately, however, this is not the case, and I will give you just one example. During 2020, the government, or HZZO, has decided to pay 1.2 billion kuna on 3 occasions to the health system to settle debts towards large-scale drugs. First in March 500 million kuna, then in June 400 million kuna and recently 300 million kuna to rebalance this year's budget an additional 1.4 billion kuna. Some of that amount has received hundreds of millions of kunas, some tens of millions, someone a few million, but no one is missing. I repeat, no lip. Therefore, I publicly ask the question on which criteria were allocated, if the criterion is to pay those who paid nothing but to raise debts, I ask whether the HZZO or the Government are rewarding defaults, and punish those who meet their obligations in such orderly terms. If so, is that just? If the government finds funds to pay the debt to large-scale drugstores, why do they have those health institutions that don't even get kunas? Of course, from all this comes the question of how will the rest of the money be allocated after the adoption of the budget rebalance? Why can't some hospitals get protective equipment? Why do some hospitals have restrictions that are not enough to pay doctors and medical staff? Why are there unequal criteria to limit the same number of beds or the size of hospitals? Why isn't efficiency and the amount of services rendered in hospitals paid? Why do some hospitals have tens of millions of kunas less income for the same amount of services? Why must the county borrow the hospital because the wholesalers do not want to deliver medicines for cancer patients so that the situations that we have witnessed in Čakovec, Pula, Split and other cities occur? Why do individual counties in Croatia have to buy their own respirators, a magnetic resonance device while in other parts of Croatia it is funded by the state? Is the situation in which the Međimurje County must be loaned to Čakovec County Hospital 400,000 kuna in order for the hospital to process cancer patients to be considered a collapse of Croatian healthcare? There's still a lot of questions, and so few answers. And that's why I'm asking the question, but I'm giving the solution. The question is, will there be equal and equal again, ours and yours, or will all our citizens finally be equal in this country, access to each county equal, relationship to each end with respect or respect? And the solution is clear criteria, visible targets, measurable results, control of public finances and efficiency are the only measure if we want a regulated and fair state. With such access, we will also prevent the health system from continuing to build up debts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u9765	Now she will speak to a respected colleague, Katarina Peovic, on behalf of the Green-Left bloc's Green-Left Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u9766	Good day to everyone, and above all good day to aunts in the Zadar cafeteria who today strike the 26th day in a row, they go on strike the 4th week and that, colleagues and colleagues, about their expenses. Workers in Zadar will not be paid days on strike, at the same time the other side of the employer, the Rector of the University of Zadar and the Student Standard Agency on our cost of breaking the strike. So, the principal and the rector order caterering every day to degrade the strike and actually make it unnecessary because every day food is served to students on the cost of us, means taxpayers from the budget of the Republic of Croatia. The workers strike at their expense, and the strike breakers break those strikes with our money. I ask Plenkovic, is that a working policy? I'm asking a question to courts that allow lockouts, disfellowshipping strike workers, what's the point of a strike if the court is going to annul it so that half the strikers are excluded from the strike? At the same time both the rector and the agency intimidate students, all the students who supported this strike have somehow come to the fact that they have to go to their professors for interviews to be photographed while giving them their support and so on. The silence of university workers and workers is also saying something. I call on professors and professors both at the University of Zadar and on all colleges to give these workers their support, not to be afraid because these workers strike not for the higher salary of colleagues and colleagues, but for one of the fundamental trade union and labour rights that was elected in the 19th century, which is the right to pay not by a unilateral act of the employer but by paying to be the result of negotiations between workers on the one hand and employers on the other. These workers strike for all of us. They strike only for the systematicization of jobs, to determine the point for each job and to pay the bill as a multiple of the value of the points and the height of the points of their place of work. We had a huge educator strike last year where teachers chose their rights to increase the value of coefficients, non-teachers are not those rights elected. These workers are fighting for non-teacher staff and that non-teachers have higher salaries or that these salaries are not unilaterally determined. Coefficients, job points, means protecting workers from the will of employers. The Registrar and the State Agency and the Student Standards Agency carry out their own free will because these workers do not require higher wages, they seek basic workers, the foundation of labour struggles on the basis of labour rights, that is to say, their salary is not defined as a unilateral act of the employer. Therefore, I am asking both colleagues and colleagues here in the assembly to invest in a strike fund because this helps to fight these workers who after this month, meaning aunts in the menu of Zadar will after this month have trouble buying their children's clothes warmly, with the payment of the credit war, with the work that comes at the moment when the minimum wage has stagnated because we cannot say that the minimum wage has increased, because it has increased by 150 kuna at the time our government is working or making tax reform that will allow those richest over 30,000 kuna who have gross salaries to get a raise, and those below 15,000 kuna will actually get nothing. At that moment I ask you to solidarity with workers in Zadar whose strike enters at week 4 who are tired, who at the end of this month will not have the money they need for some basic living conditions because they are fighting, not for a higher salary, but for all of us who work to have the possibility that the employer will not determine the salary as he wishes, that right, colleagues and colleagues, fought back in the 19th century. In 1890, when protests in Prvajska were held in Croatia, protests were led under the motto "We are for work, but we want to live as people". These workers just want to live like humans.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u9829	The 7th debate, a party representative with a name and last name, Smart and GLAS, will be spoken by a respected colleague Marijana Puljak. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u9830	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues. The crisis has always revealed the weaknesses of the system, the weaknesses that usually arise before the crisis, not because of the crisis but have been piling up for years. At the time of the crisis, such as here and here, problems exploded, and we have discovered now how badly prepared we have entered this crisis. I'm talking about a health system that's been crying out for reforms for years, like all the other parts of the country, but the lack of reforms in health, its poor organisation may bear the most difficult consequences because it's about human lives and the consequences of human health. Today I'm going to talk about a part of that health care system, and it's family doctors. They are or should be guards of entry into the health system. Family doctors are the cheapest part of the system, they use only 5% of the health budget, and they solve much of the health problems. All the reforms that have been announced so far have had the idea to train family doctors to be like in other countries the first filter of dams and selections towards hospitals, clinics and specialist reviews. They have long been informed so their work in the entire health system can be monitored, which through done procedures, through quality indices. Everything else is more or less invisible to the system. However, family medicine has been neglected for years, and quality reforms have never been completed. Not only here, so in part of family medicine and other sectors of health, by coming the virus, the bad situation has only been further complicated. The minister and the health administration do not want to take responsibility or try to solve the accumulated problems. Family doctors have the lowest salaries in the health care system and unequitable specialization. It's true they don't have a duty, it's true they don't have a teaching allowance like the others, but anyway, pay is the lowest. They are also subject to additional administrative procedures on a daily basis that reduce time and disrupt the quality of healthcare to patients, thereby indirectly increasing pressure to secondary care levels. Health homes are a huge and unnecessary administrative apparatus that wastes resources intended for healthcare itself. Instead of using the insurance money to improve the working conditions of doctors and nurses, the administrative staff is systematically hyperproduced in health care homes that contribute nothing. What are we going to motivate young doctors to commit to family medicine, not some hospital specialization, which is now very easily available because of the lack of a doctor? The reform we hope for must go in the direction of smart investment and the payment of quality work and the care of patients at the level of primary health care because it is the only way that the system does not collapse, if it is not. We've already had a number of ambulances being held by pensioners who know they have no one to leave their patients to. They're both so-called naharadian and so-called. teams without carriers which lose the continuity of care for patients, and in 5 years, a third of all family medicine doctors retire. There are no new ones. This will be felt by every citizen of Croatia because everyone needs their family doctor. One example of disorganization, right now. The newest job they've been assigned is calling the contact of the infected person. First, this job should be done by some kind of helpdesk service. There are companies in Croatia that are involved in this business, so they organize external aiddesk, their employees can train, so protection and communication of contacts must be done by doctors or even epidemiologists. Why waste at least an hour on just one Covid positive patient and thus take time on other patients who need the care of a family doctor? Secondly, if they are already doing this job, family doctors must use applications, so the information system that is not connected to the HZZO central database, so for each contact with personal data, the OIB, dates, address, all individually, so there is no withdrawal, I don't know, based on the OIB system that already contains that data. So it's all happening in the 21st century. Family doctors expected help from the minister, believed in him, were sure they were finally kept by the profession, but from day one, the minister only poured criticisms at their expense. The lack of understanding of primary healthcare has been present for decades, this epidemic alone additionally stripped problems. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u9859	The third is the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns and counterparts Hrvoja Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u9860	Today is November 10th and today Croatian sovereigns celebrate their birthday and from this place I wish to congratulate all Croatian sovereigns their first birthday. Here he would point out that Croatian sovereigns on the last two election cycles were the third power, the third political force in our country. This is about European elections where we won 8.5% on our own, then with our partners and in parliamentary elections we were also 3 forces in the country. Croatian sovereigns were created in response to globalism. Today the world is divided into globalists and sovereigns. The former division on the right and left today doesn't really work anymore, it doesn't exist, or there's less or less on conservative and liberal, but this division on sovereigns and globalists is growing stronger and stronger in Croatia, and in the world as well. And that is why Croatian sovereigns are needed in the Croatian Parliament, they are needed in Croatian society, they are needed in Croatian politics. How do Croatian sovereigns differ from other parties, from other policies that will be put into a similar part of the political spectrum? Because they're clear. Because they are not gray, they are not cloudy, they are crystal clear about all the issues shared by Croatian society, and I will even say which ones share the world. No twisting, no twisting, but we will make it clear and loud and always point out that we are for the sovereign state of Croatia, that we are against the introduction of the EUR because we see the EUR as a blow to the sovereignty of our country. We will always point out that we are also to protect life from conception without the famous but that some who are called Christian Democrats will often point out. And that's the difference between the Croatian sovereigns and all the other options they want to find in that part of the political spectrum or somewhere around this part of the political spectrum where we are. I would remind here that Croatian sovereigns formed in the community, two political parties, which are the party HRAST and the Croatian conservative party have recognised the union and have united in the new party of Croatian sovereignty. Here I must not abandon and forget all sorts of initiatives such as the Croatian Bed that has been highlighted in terms of the migrant crisis, the warning of the migrant crisis, I would also point out the truth about the Istanbul initiative that has shown the indifference of the Istanbul Convention. Speaking of the Istanbul Convention here, I must highlight the data, the latest data that says domestic violence and violence against women has increased by 45% since the introduction of the Istanbul Convention. Not 2%, not 5%, not 10%, but 45%. And how much the Istanbul Convention cost us, how much Croatian citizens, nobody knows. It's hundreds of millions of kunas that are being spent today obviously in nothing because violence is growing, it's not shrinking. Croatian sovereigns have just begun, we have just begun, but despite being a new young party in the Croatian political sky, here I will repeat in two election cycles with our partners we have achieved fantastic results. Once again in the end, once again I will congratulate all those who feel like Croatian sovereigns or generally sovereigns their birthdays.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u9929	Now we'll hear the ninth speech, the HDZ Representatives' Club will be delivered by respected counterpart Marko Pavić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u9930	The Honorable President of the Assembly, colleagues and colleagues, yesterday was the 140th anniversary of the earthquake in Zagreb, a devastating earthquake from 1880, so it may be time to remember both the earthquakes and March 22nd and what the government has done since then for the citizens of the City of Zagreb and neighbouring counties. The March 22, 5.5 earthquake on Richter over 25,000 damaged buildings, 10 seconds of horror and terror that led to 86 billion kuna damage, which is 60% of the RS budget. There's been a lot of criticism from the opposition that we're late, that we don't know, and then we just showed that we know. At the first government in the new assembly, there was a bill that we discussed in two readings in this assembly. We had an extraordinary session just for the sake of that law. Prior to that, measures have been adopted to ensure the urgent interventions of 130 million kunas for dental walls, roofs and emergency interventions to our citizens. There's been a lot of calls you're late for applying for the Solidarity Fund, money's gonna go down, that's not gonna happen. Finally, when we draw the line, Croatia received a historical amount, I also announced 500m euros from the Solidarity Fund personally, 683.7m euros were approved from the Solidarity Fund, so much more than we expected, and 89m euros already sat down on our accounts. As such, it is also included in the budget for next year, the Ministry of Finance, this morning we heard on the board that the funds will sit down and are currently being negotiated which ministries will go to that money. In addition, the Fund for Reconstruction was established. There were criticisms, it would be political corruption, there would be a political appointment, then when we came out with the name of Mr. Damir Vandjelic's top manager then it turned out that there was no criticism, in other words the HDZ government, the Government of Andrej Plenkovic had just gone in this direction, made it possible, accepted many amendments, over 40 amendments of opposition, led to the fact that we have over 5 billion kuna from the Solidarity Fund, over 200 million dollars from the World Bank loan, in other words we already have almost a billion euros, we have a fund, we have a temporary director, and we can go to the full restoration of Zagreb and all those affected in neighbouring counties. Therefore, this government has shown that it can, know, wash, have expertise and that it can use its reputation in Brussels in very good terms and that it can isolate historically large amounts. And I would also like to return to several topics that have been said in other speeches of sovereignty, so just sovereignism is that we are present in Brussels, that we can fight for these amounts of funds that we will have for the reconstruction of the City of Zagreb and the surrounding counties. It's modern sovereignty and HDZ today, and this government is practicing it. There have also been some criticism of tax reform, so Minister Maric must have further highlighted 1.9 million of our citizens outside tax scissors in an explanation of tax laws. When we look at the overall burden on wages for lower classes of wages, we are among the best in the EU or at least tax burden, we are for the higher ones who have a higher burden. There was also talk about interpelation, today we will explain this about 2012, 2013. Milanovic's government, therefore the EU's value is very...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u9931	Thank you very much. We've got two replicas, first mate of the bush. I'm sorry, I'm in breach of the Rules of Procedure, I'm sorry. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u9932	Your Honor. He's been injured. 238, a colleague of Pavić, but everyone from the ruling majority, constantly deceives the Croatian public when we talk about the affair of the Wind Power Plant and Mr. Bašić, it happened precisely during Plenkovic's government after we left the government, Mr. Basic got all the green lights. Corruption is in Plenkovic's government.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u9933	Comrade Grmoy's warning was a replica of what the content of today's debate is. We'll see at 3 p.m. and later so you can't reevaluate who's going to prove what during that debate. Comrade Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u9934	Thank you very much. A fellow Pavić was injured by an officer. In 238, where he degrades our parliamentary representatives because we need to know that the Wind Power Plant Krs-Paden death certificate of independence of Croatian energy was signed by Minister Coric and the death certificate will cost Croatian citizens 2.2 billion euros, 2.2 billion euros.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u9935	Thanks, buddy Bull. You, too, have broken the Rules of Procedure. Let's go to debate no. 6, dear colleague Ruzica Vukovac on behalf of the House Movement Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u10001	Dear President HS, colleagues and fellow MPs. This afternoon, HS will discuss the government's work in connection with the conflict of wind power plant Krsh-Padena. We'll discuss this thoroughly this afternoon. However, when I read the government’s argument of refusing to interpret, it first took time for me to overcome that bitterness and anger. The government unequivocally acknowledges a number of criminal activities, but it tries to reduce and confuse readers, and finds that a building permit has been obtained, but does not say whether it has become a power. Nor is it clear to anyone whether it is a building permit for a wind farm or perhaps access roads. Then he says again that the change and supplementation of the location permit has been issued, but he doesn't say how many wind generators and what strengths. Then they say that, on the basis of these semi-documents, previous consents were issued which, however, they were permanently obliged to pay them the price issued on the day on which it was not allowed to be issued under the law. That's what the prime minister puts on his former Yugoslav day friend Zoran Milanovic. If so, why did Plenkovic's government continue this series of illegal actions because it was clear to everyone that she had to interrupt it? However, Plenkovic's government has made, if we can measure this, more irregularities because, in addition to the illegal contract and the extension of the contract, the investor, otherwise a car dealer who has no reference from the renewable energy segment, has received another 600 million kuna from the state bank for the reconstruction and development of HBOR. Ladies and gentlemen, that the OPGs in Croatia have received 600 million kunas our original product coolen... and Biden and Trump. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, the Ministry of Finance, led by Mr. Maric, sends tax solutions to workers who have not received the salary, but are accounted for and is well aware of that by the tax administration, but nevertheless, the poor in Croatia must pay taxes, and we see how the state money is shared and disbursed. Here you can say a few sentences about Croatian media. How can they happen in such an, for Croatian conditions abnormally large affairs, without anyone knowing anything about it. And if there's a reporter, like, Mr. Majić from HRT, who published the entire series on this topic long ago in 2016, they are mostly left alone, silenced, and rarely sanctioned. Finally, I want to say one more word about the judiciary. Did DORH even open an investigation on these issues? Are we Croats citizens of the EU's second order that laws should not be implemented in our country? On this issue, we decide which direction Croatia will go, through the rule of law and European values, or through the Balkan plague in which corrupt members of the ruling summit have the burden of Croatian citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u10056	We are now on our way to take a stand, the first is the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists Bridge and the Honored counterpart of Nikola Grmoy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u10057	Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens. In today's free speech, I'm not going to talk about corruption, which, by ruling the HDZ, has remanded all the institutions, all the public companies, and has so impoverished our citizens, evicted the young and caused the demographic breakdown that threatens us. I will not talk about the Janaf affair or the "Wind Power Plant" affair that makes our citizens pay for more expensive electricity, I will not talk about the Slavonia project that did not stop the eviction, but has served to lurk the thick door of local HDZs, we will probably all talk more about it during the Interpellation debate. Today's free speech I want to dedicate to a brilliant idea that someone thought to carry out at the time of the most dramatic peak of the Covid-19 epidemic. At a time when the country and the world are hara coronavirus, while we're recording record numbers of newly infected, as we're being threatened with new closures and measures every day, some genius has thought it would be the right time to switch to a new TV signal, a famous DVB-T2 signal. So, I'm going to repeat, the brilliant idea of switching to a new signal is realized at this very time when our pensioners should be in their homes and guard against the coronavirus infection. But instead of guarding our oldest citizens, we force them to leave their homes and create crowds and rows in the shops, looking for DVB-T2 receivers and HDMI cables. In order for the whole thing to be better, moving on to a new signal happens at a time when the heating season began and new, bigger accounts arrive and no one has thought of many of our citizens, that many of our citizens, especially senior pensioners, do not need 300 kunas for devices and cables to continue to monitor the television program that many at the time of this epidemic is the only source of information. We really didn't think that in the pandemic we would see such insolence and thoughtlessness and secession of state institutions and state-owned companies from reality. I will remind you, gentlemen of the ruling majority, that the previous Croatian governments and similar situations, when switching to a new television signal, took care of the poorest citizens, those who are socially endangered, pensioners and all those whose spending of several hundred kunas is a serious blow to the home budget. My fellow sitting there, Miro Bulj, has also given the amendment to the budget rebalancing that would allow the pensioners a Covid supplement to buy receivers for the transition to a new TV signal, you will have the opportunity to vote for this, and from this place I call on the Government of the Republic of Croatia to provide pensioners and socially endangered groups of citizens with expenses for DVB-T2 devices. That should have been done a long time ago and shared the vouchers with people, but it's not too late now either. There is time, so we have a budget rebalance in front of us and oh, and a new budget for 2021 and here's if by any chance you don't accept my colleague Bulja's amendment, the government can solve it itself through a new budget. I call from this place to do so, and my colleague Bulj and I will have a press conference on this problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u10091	We are going to the 4th debate of the IDS Representatives Club and the esteemed colleague Katarina Nemet.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u10092	... the current problem, which is somewhat absurd, which occurred during the implementation of the projects of Regional Competence Centres in the Republic of Croatia. [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]] For those who do not know, I will also say that this is a major project related to vocational education worth more than a billion kunas, the funds are secured from the European funds for 25 schools from 19 Croatian cities that were still declared competence centres in 2018. Along with these schools there are hundreds more as project partners, and there are also a number of economic operators involved in the project, which is actually one of its special benefits. One of the project's objectives is to invest part of the funding in infrastructure so students can work in better conditions and with best equipment. Another important objective is to establish an educational concept based on work-and-practice learning, where employers, or potential employers, will be key partners to schools. It is a new and modern approach to the education system in Croatia that should systematically ensure quality and necessary housing, which will be ready to engage actively and effectively in the labour market after the completion of the educational process. The entire project is funded with 85% of the funding from the European Social Fund and 15% from the state budget. The allocations of a billion kuna fully cover all costs under the project. If we know the state of the school institution, their spatial and infrastructure conditions and the equipment they have, we should not even tell how much this project means to a large number of Croatian secondary schools that are included as holders or partners in this quality story. Unfortunately, though, in Croatia this promising project is often unexplainable at some point. And now, after the initial enthusiasm, it only causes frustration and disappointment from the directors, professors, students and other partners involved in the project. After a good part of the project has already been spent in the first phase, primarily in infrastructure, spaces and equipment now that in these far better conditions concrete operational education programmes and projects should be implemented, schools have their hands tied and can't go on. Absurd is the bigger the problem is not, as it often is, money. The financial resources are secured, with schools signed grant contracts, after which they were subject to substantial amounts. But the problem is that schools cannot and must not use this money until they have received instructions from the Ministry of Education on the model of payouts and compensation for employees and external associates who will be further involved in projects. In other words, projects are ready, people who would also implement them, million amounts stand on school accounts, all the conditions are there. But until the Ministry of Education delivers the required instructions, everything stands frozen. School heads wrote to the ministry and the government, urging the problem to be resolved and to continue implementing the projects, but for now there is no movement and desired response. I am afraid that if the problem is not urgently solved, a series of planned projects throughout Croatian vocational schools do not come into question as well as that significant funds for this reform process remain unused. It would be a huge gap with inconceivable consequences. I therefore call on Minister Fuchs and Prime Minister Plenkovic to respond to the problem as soon as possible, to provide schools with the requested information and instructions, thus allowing thousands of Croatian high school students and their teachers to finally step into their 21st century schools. I would just like to point out how I will refer the inquiry to this topic to the Ministry of Education in writing and, of course, ask for a written reply, and then forward it to school principals who are eager to move. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u10093	Thank you. Now we're going to listen to a colleague of Silvan Hrelja who will speak for the Club of Representatives of HSS and HSU. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u10100	Dear Mr. President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, it's hard to always be motivated to give a good speech, but I'm going to try to be alive. Too often, the topics discussed in the assembly seem to differ from real life outside these thick walls. The contrast team is stronger because we are in the middle of a pandemic that has left a deep wound in the economy but also in the mental health of citizens. So it seems like people are drowning, and we're describing water here, or worse, we're arguing about what color should be a life jacket. It should therefore be used every minute for this pay phone and this high house to discuss life - related topics. That's why we're colleagues and colleagues, that's why. Yesterday, a new model of family pensions was announced on all portals, which the government predicts at the earliest in 2022, for Croatia new in Europe already well-known model by which the surviving spouse has the right to use a certain part of the deceased's pension. I support, I strongly support, and I want you to join me in this support, so I will explain what is being done to identify the value of family pensions. What is a family pension, why is it important and important to whom? Currently Croatian pensioners can choose after the death of their spouse, continue to use their pension or 70% of the deceased spouse's pension. Such or-or provision in which the survivors choose between their pension and the percentage of the pension of the deceased partner is excluded and brings the surviving beneficiary of the family pension into the poverty zone. The average family pension, and 91% are users of women or users if they choose, so the average family pension I repeat is below the poverty line, if you choose to use your personal pension, the widower or widower has no right to a small part of the late spouse’s pension even though the contribution to pension insurance has both been paid for decades. We're talking about an internship of 70, 80 and over, it's about a long-term joint investment in the creation of a level of pension law. The attitude we take towards family pensions is our attitude towards the marriage community and pension insurance. Both components are very, very important. When ideological wars start, marriage is highlighted as sacred, when family pensions are mentioned, stuttering, torment, questionnaires above the head. People, let's look up to European countries. Let's take a just stand. Let us respect the years together not only by paying contributions but by living, by creating, by giving up. The support I showed at the beginning is not just declarative. In the last term, we have referred two draft laws governing family pensions. In Law No 930, we asked that a pensioner, a pensioner with a personal pension, be entitled to a family allowance of 50% of the deceased's pension. While we're at P.Z. No. 931 asked only the percentage of the deceased's pension to be used for widows who decided to use that percentage from 70% to 80% in order to get those pensions and pensioners out of poverty often overnight. These proposals were made by pension experts, not by anyone, not by politics, but by pension experts who have devoted their whole life to either law or pension rights. Let's listen to the waist during the crown and after the crown. It doesn't matter to me whose name is written on the adopted bill, which is the colour of the flag at the won peak, it is only important to bring one of the biggest injustices of the pension system of the Republic of Croatia. You have my support for all the good you want to do for Croatian citizens, everything. All I ask is that you really look at these proposals from the opposition, among which there are really high-quality and simple and necessary solutions. If it is impossible for the opposition to support a good government proposal and for the government to adopt a good proposal against the damages of the directors paid for this building, the effort of the players is in vain. Really.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u10125	Now let's go to the last debate, dear colleague Anja Shimpraga Club of Representatives of the SDSS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u10126	Dear President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Croatia in stories. It happened to everyone in all parts of the world, changing the lives of the crown. The awareness of all other diseases and patients was lacking by the occurrence of this epidemic, the feeling of old and powerless ones living in the clear sky and those who, in addition to good health and middle age, cannot provide their own existence, this is the story of them. About them fighting for what's most precious, and that's life. Bodan 64 years of Biljana Donja, after being fired at work in war years, he is slowly caught up with suffering and distress. His legs betrayed him, he moved harder and he was forced to return from Rijeka to the family's garage in his native village. With social aid and one meal a day, there is also a trailer as the only place to live, lives without electricity and water, and the toilet is actually just one shell placed at the site of the former bathroom under the clear sky. A toilet with no roof, no windows and no doors, the only one who has and when the sun is and when it rains in winter. Bogdan imagines one room for life and one bathroom, on the roof of the house, and does not dream because the concrete plate would be enough for him to store a stove under it when winter comes, to protect him from the rain when he can barely walk at night to the toilet. Honey, 50. Watery. A woman we can only learn from. Thanks to the text published in the media, good people have been involved to help Ljubica whom her animals are the only society and comfort. And life is cruel. The only income comes from selling milk while needs are much higher. The roof stops as soon as it collapses, the boards won't last another snow, another winter in Lica. A pet deserves an opportunity, doesn't require much, only the ability to manage to feed her animals and sell milk and other products can live decently. Nancy, 25, Knin. A young dentist who discovered the most aggressive form of brain tumors and demanded expensive treatment. The funds are also being collected here for this speaker, and I invite you all to join in, donate to save a young life and so that Nancy can go to treatment in Turkey. These are the fates of all of us, as a society we can and must act. The consequences of this epidemic are multiple. Prevention checks have mostly stopped due to closure, progress in cancer disease will be revealed at a later stage as the waist says. We are left with faith in good people no matter what their name is, whatever they pray to God, this faith changes the world and changes lives for the better. In the shadow of the crown remains a forgotten man. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u10127	This brings us to the end of free speech and the presentation of the views of clubs and independent representatives, so now we move to a statement on the amendments. We will now move to a statement on the amendments to the draft amendments and additions to the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2020 and projections for 2021 and 2022. I would only like to delete the pay phone so Minister Maric can also approach, with a proposal to amend and supplement the National Budget of the Republic of Croatia for... And it is, and I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I didn't see the 2021 and 2022 projections are also submitted, and the amendments and additions to the financial plans of the out-of- budget beneficiaries for 2020 and the projection of the 2021 and '22 plans. with an explanation for Croatian Water, Croatian Roads, Centre for Reconstruction and Sales, Environmental and Energy Efficiency Fund, State Agency for the Insurance of Deposits and Rehabilitation of Banks, Croatian Institute for Health Insurance, Croatian Highways, Autocesta Rijeka-Zagreb, HZ Travel and HZ Infrastructure. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by representative Vesna Nađ, representative of Boška Ban Vlahek, Adviser's Club of Independent Lists Bridges, MP Miro Bulj, SDP's Club of Representatives, Barbara Antolic Vopora and Željko Pavić. The review of the amendments has been sent to you by electronic means, a representative of the motion that is with us by the respected Deputy Prime Minister and Finance Minister Zdravko Maric, and he will be shown about the amendments submitted. Let's go in turn, first order of business is the amendment of MP Vesna Nadj, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11206	The proposed amendment is not accepted by the Government. Legal activities and memorial areas of Jasenovac marking the anti-fascist fight in the Republic of Croatia do not need to be increased in the proposed amount for the reasons that all needs for 2020 have been met with the means provided in accordance with planned and carried out activities under epidemiological conditions. On the other hand, it is not possible to reduce the plan to the proposed amount for the marking of the mentioned Bleirburg tragedy and the Crossroads for the reason that the execution of the above activities is 49 303,73 kuna and the remaining neutrino resources cannot be reduced by the amount requested. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11207	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11208	Thank you very much. I therefore insist on this amendment, given that the activities of the Jasenovac memorial area include the collection, research, professional processing, protection, presentation of the museum building, documentation on the activities of the Ustasha concentration camp Jasenovac, up to the programme of education and education, organization, exhibitions, publishing, continuity of cooperation with surviving prisoners, the organisation of memorials in honor of the Jasenovac victims. It is very important that the education programme for primary and secondary school students, and in collaboration with experts from other memorial centres, has a basic goal of acquiring basic knowledge about II. svt. the work, the Ustasha regime, the loss of victims of fascism and anti-fascist resistance. Also, to adopt views and values on democracy, tolerance, which is most important in the present time and non-violent conflict resolution. And we know that the marking of the mentioned Bleibur tragedy and the Crossroad, since the Austrian authorities did not allow in the open on the Bleibur field because of the ban on large gatherings and travel restrictions, did not keep on the Bleibur field, so I do not know how all the funds for the event were spent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11209	We'll vote, I assume you're asking for a vote. All right, we're going to the 2nd Amendment of the same MP, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11210	The government also, this amendment does not accept. The amount of 4 million and 600,000 listed in the amendment proposal for the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2020 as part of the division of the Croatian Defence Ministry at the position of the victim of armed aggression on the Republic of Croatia in the Homeland War is sufficient for the implementation of measures by the end of the current financial year. In this regard, the Law on the Rights of Victims of Sexual Violence during the armed aggression against the Republic of Croatia in the Homeland War entered into force in 2015 and a number of requests have been submitted in the first year of law enforcement, and now the number of applications submitted has been reduced from year to year. For this reason, there is no need to plan additional financial resources at the above-mentioned position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11211	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11212	Thank you very much. Since the position of the defence store amounts to 290,000 kuna, I suggest that it be reduced to 10 thousand kuna since 2015, since the defence store has not been alive because no one really wants to take over the management of that defence store, and as regards victims of sexual violence during the armed aggression against the Republic of Croatia, that amount has been reduced precisely because the demands of the victims are not accepted and the fees for those victims are not then paid. Therefore, I insist on voting for this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11213	Okay. We are now going to the 3rd Amendment, which is related to the Ministry of Culture and Media, these two were related to the Ministry of Croatian Defence, Proposer of the 3rd Amendment, SDP Representatives' Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11214	The proposed amendment is not accepted by the Government. The Ministry of Culture and Media from 2016 to 2020 provided 49 million and 900 thousand kuna in the state budget for the European Capital of Culture project in Rijeka 2020. As the scope of the programme activities within the project itself, due to the impact of the coronary virus epidemic, the total planned amount for that project was reduced in 2020 to the new circumstances. On the other hand, training and training activities have been planned to achieve and maintain the necessary level of combat preparedness of the OSCE and to develop the capacity needed to fulfil missions and tasks to preserve the sovereignty and integrity of the Republic of Croatia and to assume commitments in collective defence and international defence cooperation. This means that these activities cannot be reduced. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11215	Comrade Bauk, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11216	Thank you, Mr. President. The only amendment our club sent to this budget rebalance as a club was not to cut funds for the European Capital of Culture in 2020 in Rijeka, which was reduced from 10 to 8 million kuna. It's not the only reduction. So the last rebalancing was reduced from 15 to 10, now from 10 to 8, and initially... It was 25. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I expected that the Minister of Culture would explain the refusal of this amendment, that he would announce at least for the 2021 budget a certain amount of funding for this project because it continues for another 3 months in 2,000, or 4, in 2021, none of these expectations came true. Therefore, Rijeka is obviously for this event now, until something changes, left to itself and the Rijeka City budget will have to bear the costs which are as well as what you have refused for the reduction item also done, which cannot be reduced and which will have to be paid. Therefore, the same criterion if the city of Rijeka were to apply would not be reduced. We're looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11217	All right. We are now going to the EU Ministry of Regional Development and Funds. Fourth Amendment to the Boška Ban Vlahek, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11218	The proposed amendment does not accept, the funding planned at the EU co-financing position of 119 million 406 thousand 821 kuna project envisioned and sufficient in the current year under the EU Co-financing Fund for Consumers with which the EU Ministry of Regional Development and Funds has already signed contracts on co-financing of EU projects following the latest public call of November 2019. A new public call will be made after the budget for 2021 and will be made available to all users who meet the requirements of the new public call. On the other hand, the planned funds for the purchase of certain real estates for the Republic of Croatia and the lending of loans to domestic natural persons cannot be reduced for reasons that the APN, according to the needs of the State Department of Housing, must buy a number of apartments each year for returnees of former housing rights holders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11219	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11220	I believe that investment in education is high on the priority scale. The Donja Dubrava primary school building, which was built in 1983 and in which there have been no larger investments since then, has been energy-renewed in the energy school project of total work value of 6 million 804 thousand 547 kuna. The share of EU-funded grants is secured in the amount of 3 million 988.447 kuna, and I propose to provide a million-million-dollar guarantee of €272,445 in the EU project co-financing item, which would result in a total co-financing of the EU Ministry of Regional Development and Funds in this important project in which Donja Dubrava Elementary School, apart from ensuring better working conditions, will achieve savings in energy consumption by 54%, would be less than 40% of the total value of the investment, so I am asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11221	Okay. The Fifth Amendment is the same representative again, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11222	The proposed amendment is not accepted by the Government. As for the increase in the EU co-financing item, I have just explained. On the other hand, this amendment cannot even be implemented technically. In particular, on the project of building, buying and maintaining buildings within the source of funding 11, the general income and receipts which can only be reduced, and in order to avoid increasing the lack of the state budget, as a result of which it would be invalid under the provisions of Article 38(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Budget law, only information that 23 million 612 thousand 998 kuna 34 June has been implemented from the planned 25 million 497 thousand kuna and the remaining neuter resources cannot be reduced by the amount requested. So we have one and a technical additional problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11223	I've been extremely careful that the amendments from the items you're raising now, but okay. The project of reconstruction and revitalisation of the fortification of the old town of Čakovec, whose beneficiary of Međimurje County, includes the revitalisation and reconstruction of the largest cultural monument in Međimurje County, as well as the most valuable monument of feudal heritage in Croatia. The old town in Čakovec has an immeasurable value and is a historical heritage in memory of the noble family Zrinski and Frankopani of the Croatian Ban and the prince. The Međimurje County initiative has run for tender with the desire to reconstruct the old town through EU funds and turn it into a museum of immaterial heritage with all its accompanying contents. The value of the project is €42 million, of which 36 million is granted, but additional statistical recoverys and construction and conservation interventions need to provide an additional 6 million kuna to be submitted to the budget of the Međimurje County, which, given the original revenues at the moment, is a huge financial cost. Given that this is a national important project, I propose that the amount requested in the state budget be provided with the funds so that the old town of Zrinski in Čakovec shines in full glory in 2021, given that that year is the 400th year of the birth of Nikola Zrinko, so I am asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11224	We are now moving on to an amendment related to the Ministry of Science and Education. Amendment number six of Boska Ban Vlahek's representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11225	The proposed amendment shall be adopted by the Government. The Ministry of Science and Education in cooperation with Čakovec Education and the founder of the Centre is working on the final preparation of the project documentation, the cost of works that are the basis for the initiation of the procurement process. In view of the deadlines provided for by the Public Procurement Act, it is not necessary to provide any financial commitments under this capital project in 2020. On the other hand, in the proposal of the National Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2021 and projections for '22. and in '23, sufficient funds are provided for the realisation of this capital project and is based on the '21st. A year planned for a million and 950,000 kuna, in '22. A year 15 million 150 thousand kuna and in '23. 17 million and 650 thousand kuna. As far as this proposed reduction of the item is concerned, an explanation such as that of the previous amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11226	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11227	Thank you very much, I must point out that the Center for Education and Education Čakovec is the only institution for schooling children with greater development difficulties in Međimurje County, but also the only school facility in the town of Čakovec which is currently working towards a mixed model. For a week they continued in the school building, the week continued at a distance because, due to the long-term lack of school space, teaching work with existing epidemiological measures could not be organised differently. The school building of the centre was built as part of a unique architectural solution in 1971 and the third elementary school was built. In the building of space it is intended for the education of a maximum of 70 students with easy difficulties, today the school year 2020/2021 in this space schools 150 students with greater developmental difficulties. According to modern pedagogical standards, it is a completely inappropriate and dysfunctional space for schooling children with greater developmental difficulties. The existing school space has no school kitchen, dining room, gym, library, IT room or elevator. There's no running water in the classrooms. It is urgent to launch a project to build a school building of the Center for Education and Education of Čakovec that would allow children with greater development difficulties in Međimurje County to be trained in adequate spaces. The funds provided for in this amendment were initial funds to launch an investment in accordance with the revised project documentation provided by the Ministry of Science and Education of the Republic of Croatia. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11228	All right, we're going to the 7th Amendment of MP Mira Bulja, he's related to the Ministry of Labour, the pension system, family and social policy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11229	Thank you very much. The proposed amendment is not accepted by the Government. The funds planned for the activities of the energy purchaser at risk, so other fees for citizens and households from the budget amounting to 51 million 651 thousand 82 kuna, are made out of dedicated revenues for the financing of energy. The compensation for the threatened energy buyer is intended for co-financing of electricity costs up to a monthly amount of up to 200 kuna, and can be used when paying the bill for electricity costs. Those funds will be sufficient for the payment of energy in 2020. In view of the fact that it is the means that can be spent exclusively in accordance with the intended purpose of that position, no other fees may be paid. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11230	Here's your testimony, Comrade Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11231	Thank you very much. My amendment said that in the budget rebalancing of the respected ministers, colleagues and colleagues, that the crown supplement to our pensioners because at this moment the receiver for the DVB T2 signal is being changed so-called, it will cost 300 kuna. All governments in these cases have reacted to ministers except Plenkovic and your government. In this covid crisis, the only thing our elders have that are at risk is because of the health situation they have to be in the house, who's going to give them money at this time? Well, it's a minimum obligation at the moment when you mention energy. You, when you talk about energy, are only helping you and Minister Coric to foreign investors in wind power plants that pick out the pockets of these pensioners money, of course with the help of the locals who have polluted the mustache well. This is a perfectly reasonable measure. If you find it difficult for the ministers to accept this social measure at this difficult moment for our most vulnerable elderly, retired and socially endangered at an amount not enormous of 20 million kuna, I believe that these TV receivers at this point at the worst moment that has come to mind is the biggest fool who's ever been born, that at this moment they're making it impossible for people who are in their apartments, their houses, our citizens who have little pensions so they can't watch TV receptions the only window in the world. I think this is a reasonable measure. I know it's hard for you to accept my proposal, I don't know the reasons you explain them to the public and our pensioners and the socially endangered, but find a model, find a model to provide people with the means to buy this receiver for a new signal, not just send a message buy this 300 kuna receiver or a new television. So who's gonna... for TV they don't have for electricity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11232	Thank you very much. We now move to amendments related to the Ministry of Health, the 8th Amendment of Representative Barbara Antolic Vupra. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11233	Thank you very much. The proposed amendment is not accepted by the Government. The Ministry of Health, taking into account the Health Protection Act, which obliges the founders of health institutions to ensure, in accordance with the plan and programme of health care measures and the network of public health services, funds for investment, investment and ongoing maintenance of health institutions, medical and medical equipment, means of transport and the information of health activities under their financial plan, did not plan to obtain any financial assets for the General Hospital of Varazdin. Since the Republic of Croatia is not the founder of the General Hospital, the Ministry of Health cannot plan to finance the procurement of non-financial assets regularly, it should be mentioned, however, that by respecting the current epidemiological situation in Varazdin County, three respirators of the General Hospital in Varazdin have resigned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11234	Thank you. I don't see a representative, so we'll vote on that proposal then. 9th Amendment of Representative Željko Pavić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11235	Thank you very much. The proposed amendment is not accepted by the Government. The project General Hospital Zabok planned funds to co-finance the payment of loans for the construction of the General Hospital Zabok according to the loan plan and the commitments made. As regards the activities of maintenance of material resources from the system, on the other hand, funds for the maintenance of combat and non-combat technical means are planned to bring them in and maintain the state of regularity and reliability. It is primarily reflected in the weapons of equipment needed to fulfil the missions and tasks of the armed forces to preserve the sovereignty and integrity of the Republic of Croatia, as well as the commitments undertaken on collective defence and international defence cooperation. In view of the above, they cannot be reduced to these activities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11236	Here's your testimony, counselor.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11237	Dear Minister. I know you have a lot of obligations and I really don't expect you to know what the situation is in all the hospitals in Croatia, but I expected Mr. Beros Minister of Health to know and that he will respond to it and that you will accept that amendment. Namely, you know the COvid crisis itself is there, Zabok Hospital is the only hospital where our citizens from Zagorje can come and ask for help with covid infection. But I'm sorry that you didn't realize that all the hospitals are currently down, that all the hospitals are in trouble and that you're going to have to pay that money at the expense of those hospitals sooner or later, it's just a matter of whether it's gonna be late and whether we're gonna pay interest because we're late. Please vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11238	We'll vote. 10th Amendment of the Independent List Bridges Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11239	Thank you very much. The proposed amendment is not accepted by the Government. The Mandatory Health Insurance Act defines the rights, means of financing and obligations of contract entities. Since HZZO provides the necessary means of providing health care on the basis of contracted limits, including pay-outs, the payment of those amounts is subject to the obligation of health institutions to comply with the collective agreements signed and the Public Service Payment Act. The Ministry of Health has no legal option within its financial plan to plan allowances in the health care system except the salaries of employees of the ministry itself. The Ministry of Culture and Media in the first rebalancing of 2020 reduced the 55 million kuna within the limits of the state budget and within such a reduced limit redistributed to the Covid Fund for Culture 40 million kuna, the total direct to reduce the impact of the coronary epidemic on the cultural sector, which is one of the most affected 95 million kuna from the funds of the Ministry of Culture and Media. Any further reduction in cultural resources would question sustainability and the existence of culture and art in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11240	Comrade Grmo, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11241	Here this morning at the stop, as well as fellow Bulj during this amendment, which requested a covid supplement for the pensioners, warned of the insolence of the government and of you ministers regarding the problems our pensioners face. But it's amazing that you don't appreciate the great professional contribution especially under the conditions of improvisation shortages, and the personal contribution of health and health care professionals who have been taking care of covid patients throughout our hospitals for weeks of their sacrifice and March. And this effort, the victim is the only one in Croatia who is not recognized and rewarded with a suitable salary allowance. The rebalancing of the state budget is a real opportunity to show understanding of the difficult working conditions, especially knowing that the issue of maintenance of electricity is solved by dozens of extension cables, which is in no way in the domain, means the activities of healthcare professionals, and the responsibility is precisely you, meaning decision makers, of course the director of hospitals set up by the government of which you are vice president and I cannot believe that you do not recognize this effort by our healthcare professionals. So, we think that in the budget we have to find funds for our people who are now on the front line of defense from the crown of the virus and hopefully here is when you did not accept that amendment that my fellow MPs will do so when the government has no ear for those people, and if they don't, here's the hope that you'll just do it in the new budget for 2021.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11242	We'll vote, I suppose? You want a vote on the same?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11243	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11244	11th Amendment of Boška Ban Vlahek, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11245	The proposed amendment is not accepted by the government. The Health Protection Act obliges the founders of health institutions to ensure, in accordance with the plan and programme of health care measures and the network of public health services, funds for investment and investment and ongoing maintenance of health institutions, medical and not medical equipment, means of transport, and information of health activities. Since the Republic of Croatia is not the founder of the County Hospital in Čakovec, the Ministry of Health cannot plan to finance the acquisition of non-financial assets. The interpretation of this part of the amendment relating to the reduction has already been said before, and that is precisely why even the amendment cannot be fully implemented technicalally. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11246	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11247	For the purposes of the County Hospital Čakovec in the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2018. the means of partial settlement of the supply of magnetic resonance devices have been provided. For the total settlement of the purchase of the said device, there remained a commitment of 4 million, 137 thousand, 500 kuna and I believe it is important to include it in the proposal to amend and supplement the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2020. and projection for 2021 and 2022. I'm interested in why everyone gets funds for the magnet and other medical equipment, but the Međimurje County is always somehow in that segment cut off and has to settle everything itself out of its own budget, which is really hard to bear? I really didn't find a case where the county fully or partially financed a magnet and other medical equipment like that in Čakovec. So I'm not happy with the answer and I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11248	We are now going to the 12th Amendment of counterpart Mira Bulja, related to the proposal to amend and supplement the Croatian Waters' financial plan, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11249	Thank you. The proposed amendment is not accepted by the Government. That amendment is proposed in order to allocate additional funds for the irrigation of the Sinj field. Split-Dalmatia County and Croatian Waters have developed a conceptual solution to the irrigation of the Sinjsko-Dalmatia field, and for the location of Trnovac, which is about 500 hectares, an idea project of irrigation, an idea project of draining and an environmental impact studio and an ecological network has been developed. The process is under way to assess the impact of environmental interventions and the ecological network. Therefore, the resources provided are sufficient for the implementation of the planned activities in 2020. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11250	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11251	Thank you very much. The blue field and numerous fields, karst fields in Dalmatia, have only 200 000 hectares of unprocessed land that could feed 11 million people in Dalmatia. Today, news came out that we've increased 10% of our imports, and our exports are dropping. At this point, if we are not ready to understand how important self-sufficiency is, and in Croatia we have a million and a half hectares of only 7,000 hectares, 7,000 hectares, 0.5%. And in your program you stated that you would double the irrigation, which means that 1% would be irrigated. Not only did you destroy Croatian agriculture, and what you were definitely told by the Constitutional Court's decision that you destroyed Croatian agriculture in the division of incentives and agricultural land was that farmers who were damaged could not complain, but you destroyed Dalmatia, destroyed Slavonia and only spread the thick necks of your party ears in those areas and local sheriffs. And today's picture when we talk about your measures for Zagreb, which suffered a severe earthquake of assistance, Slavonia, Dalmatia, Lika, farmers and the village suffered 100 times more serious consequences than your policies. So are you ashamed to tell every election the same story? Project documentation, project documentation, 30. You're doing project documentation, so where did you put it? Can you show us where that facility is? Well, a whole blue field couldn't put it together, so where's the money you pay for it? Who do you give this project money to every year? Ministers Answer Shame on you. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11252	Don't do that. You shouldn't have done this in the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11253	Father, this is what the people sent me here for, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11254	Don't, pal Bull, yet time's up, you said that over when it was zero. We are going to the last amendment, the proposal to amend and supplement the financial plan of the Croatian Roads and for the end of the same fellow Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11255	Thank you very much. The proposed amendment is not accepted by the Government. That amendment is proposed to provide funds for the construction of a project documentation for the rehabilitation of the Kukuzovac-Koshuta road. Croatian roads in that area plan a project connected road from D60 to D1 at the location of Turjaci-Kukuzovac. For the project in question, a project task has been developed to wait for a public tender to be held for the negotiation of ideas and main projects, the implementation of geodetic and geotechnical research, the entry of local and construction permits. Therefore, the resources provided are sufficient for the implementation of the planned activities in 2020.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11256	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11257	Thank you very much. Everything that's done in Sinj, this is one smaller project that's significant for the part... Brnaza... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, all the projects that are significant, which have been promised, I also laid the cornerstones at one point, and I could repeat because to see that now, that you are in a pre-election campaign come often so that you have no cost of opening and laying the cornerstones. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I can list what you promised four years ago. The fast road Kukuzovac-Kryzice, a date on Split, a vessels cookhouse of the Cetin area. You're a pain in the ass, Knin, a freeway date, a forgotten part. Vrgorak tunnel, Vrgorac, Drvenik, very significant, very significant. The property end, Zagvozd to Imotsky, absolutely forgotten. I'm sorry he's not the mayor of Imotsky here so he can raise his voice to support this. I invite you, you from forgotten Dalmatia, Slavonia, 2/3 of Croatia, I know that Zagreb is in trouble, but the other 2/3 of Croatia are absolutely forgotten. The burned country, it does not invest except for pre-election promises for these projects that I forgot, except for the PR mayors, the county, your mayoral candidates and the current mayors. No projects, Minister. They're not working. Except Oleg Butkovic had something around his municipality and his town to prove himself as a village Lola. Five billion kunas, all the projects around his village. Well, he's a minister, not his village and his city and his municipalities. Minister Maric, you are a serious man. Well, he can't have five billion kunas all the projects around his house, around his juice. 2/3 of Croatia, colleagues and colleagues, forgotten, the Dalmatian Zagora is extinct, which is why it had below 4 million inhabitants Zagreb is important, but these two [[/Intruder: Thank you. Thank you.]] thirds of Croatia are important [[Intruder: Thank you.]] There's no state without people. [[Intruder: Thank you, colleague Bulj.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11258	We'll also vote on your amendment. I thank the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance, the respected Zdravko Marić, and we have come to an end. First, we will declare the amendments to the Final Proposal for a Rules of Procedure on the amendment and addition of the Rules of Procedure of the HS. It's an emergency procedure, first and second reading. The proposer is the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Party's representative club with the name and last name, Smart and GLAS and Green-left bloc representatives. I would ask the applicant's representative to be shown about the amendments submitted. This is counterpart Drazen Bosnjakovic, chairman of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. Let's go in order, first amendment of the Party's Representatives Club with a name and name, smart and voice, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11478	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. I do not accept the first amendment of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. In particular, the power of the HS Presidency to decide on the initiation and termination of the special mode of operation of HS should be observed in the light of the intensity and nature of the limitations of the prescribed article. Namely, the restriction that applies exclusively to shortening the time for discussion in 5 minutes and a five-minute break does not constitute such a kind of restriction that the right of participants in St. 8, 9 and 10 to take part in the debate at the HS session would be violated. In addition, as discussed at the HS meeting, this amendment also provides for more rights than the applicable business provisions, the right to take part in the meeting of HS and the working bodies. It is also important here to say that a special way of working takes place while the decision of the competent authority to determine and declare a pandemic or epidemic. The Committee therefore rejected the adoption of this amendment. For this amendment, there was only one vote for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11479	There's no one from the counsel club who proposed that amendment, so we can't give them a word. We're going to vote quite safely on that amendment, so let's go to the second amendment of the Green-Left bloc's Club of Representatives, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11480	This amendment has also not been accepted. For the reasons of this amendment, in the section relating to the proposal that the decision to initiate and terminate a special mode of work shall be made by the HS reasons the same as for this amendment. In addition, when prescribing a business provision in the section relating to the possibility of holding and transferring meetings of HS audio or video conference bodies, the possibility of access to different channels of electronic communication was particularly taken into account. In this respect, the concept of working bodies sessions shall cover all working bodies meetings, as well as the thematic sessions. If a different legal regime is to be prescribed for the thematic sessions than the basic rule, then the thematic sessions should be set aside. This provision shall include and apply in the event of maintenance. Also, there are no business obstacles to holding the thematic sessions outside HS that need not be specifically prescribed how they can be held outside the assembly building as proposed by the amendment. Moreover, individual working bodies have already held thematic sessions outside HS. In addition, it is considered that the provision governing the possibility of discussion and voting by representatives at the HS session by electronic means or by means of an audio or video conference clearly determines the presence of representatives at the HS session and does not need to be amended in a way proposed by the amendment. It is also not possible to adopt a proposal to organise the voting procedure as proposed by the amendment because, during the debate on the amendment of the Rules of Procedure at the meeting of this Committee and at the meeting of the HS, it was clarified that the above will be made possible in accordance with the provision of Article 2 of the Rules of Procedure. 280th century 2nd subst. 5. The Rules of Procedure of HS shall be adopted by electronic means and in all halls provided for in the HS session. So the amendment was not accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11481	Observation of fellow Tomašević, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11482	Here I thank you, here we still think it would be good if the decision on a special way of working was made not by the presidency but by most MPs, either ordinary or absolute. We had a debate about this on the Committee on the Constitution this morning, so as these other matters go in some direction to allow for a session of working bodies, at least in some good will, but we understand that it would be good to amend it in the Rules of Procedure concerning other provisions, and not this article, not this article we're discussing now, but we still think it would be good during this special way of working to actually keep the meetings more under way, that the working bodies' sessions are normally being held. So here we are staying on this amendment and we are asking for a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11483	Thank you. so now we move on to: - Final proposal of the Law on posting workers in the Republic of Croatia and cross-border implementation of decisions on fines, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 15 The Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 15. 85 Constitution and Art. in relation to Art. 172. 190. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and by the Committee on Labour, Pensions and Social Partnership. I'd like to ask the motionary's representative to give us an additional explanation. With us here is Secretary of State at the Ministry of Labour and Pensions, Family and Social Policy, respected Dragan Jelic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11494	Thank you very much, Mr. President-in-Office of HS, the distinguished parliamentary representatives and parliamentary representatives. The final draft of the law in front of you establishes a comprehensive legal framework, which takes over in one act the three EU directives governing the field of labour rights, i.e. the working conditions of the addressed workers. Posting workers... the European economic space shows an increasing trend in growth and the need to ensure greater equality of the posted workers with the workers of the host country, primarily in order to increase the protection of workers' rights, is necessary. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The protection of workers directed by his employer, a foreign service provider, in order to perform a contracted service or works in the Republic of Croatia, shall be achieved among other things through the arrangement and guarantee of this law in the following paragraphs. Rights and rates of work compensation, labour protection, working time, quality of accommodation at which they have the right and domestic workers according to the regulation or extended collective contract, the cost of mobility of workers and domestic workers under the regulation or an extended collective contract, better regulation of the position and rights of agency workers in such a way as to apply the same rights, rules on wages and working conditions as well as on domestic agency workers, increasing protection and scope of the rights of long-term posted worker, regulating mechanisms for the supervision of those rights, enabling cross-border implementation of monetary penalty decisions and the necessary cooperation of bodies in national and European frameworks, not only through administrative cooperation through... information by carrying out joint inspections, and ultimately, by ensuring the availability of the most important information on the application of law in the host country through a single website on the posting of workers. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The European legal framework for the salary and working conditions of the seconded worker to be taken over by this law constitute the following Directive. It means Directive 218/957 of 28 June 2018 amending Directive 96/71/EC on the posting of workers in the framework of the provision of services. Directive 96/71/EC of 16 December 1996 on the posting of workers in the framework of the provision of services and Directive 2014/67/EU of 15 May 2014 on the implementation of Directive 96/71/EC on the posting of workers in the framework of the provision of services and amending Regulation (EC) No 1024/2012 on administrative cooperation through the information system of the internal market, so-called IMI Regulation already adopted into national legislation in one part of the applicable Foreign Law, and the other part of the Law on cross-border implementation of monetary penalty decisions in the field of posting of workers. It is therefore proposed by the final draft law on 1 January 2021 as an additional step towards the entry into force of this law, thus harmonising this final draft law with the envisaged entry into force of the new Act on Foreigners whose proposal has been discussed in the first reading in HS and which no longer contains provisions on the posting of workers on the basis of the adoption of these Directives. The entry into force of this Act on 1 January 2021 will also end the validity of the Law on cross-border implementation of monetary penalty decisions in the field of posting of workers. The final bill does not regulate the issue of entry, residence and the possibility of the work of third-country nationals, so we must stress this, but is further regulated by a special regulation. This law regulates guaranteed rights of third-country nationals if they are addressed to work in the Republic of Croatia in the same way as other posted workers. The papers in the final draft of the law in relation to the draft law with nomotechnical improvements are the consequence of the adoption in the meantime of a new directive in the road transport sector, meaning Directive 2020/1057 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 July 2020 laying down specific rules regarding Directive 96/71EC and Directive 2014/67EU to refer drivers to the road transport sector and amending Directive 2006/22EC as regards the requirements of implementation and Regulation No 1024 and are in force from 2 February 2022 which constitutes a lex specialis in the European legal framework. This Directive lays down, inter alia, specific rules concerning the reference of drivers in the road transport sector. The application of the prescribed rules is also prescribed for drivers to affect the provisions of this law and the final proposal to exclude drivers from sectoral road transport for which specific rules are to be laid down by the specific regulation to which they are bound. Thus, from the application of certain institutes in the manner prescribed by this final bill, which concerns the definition of the driver’s reference situation to the road transport sector, the calculation of the completion of the driver’s reference in the road transport sector, the cumulation of the driver’s reference period in the event of replacement of drivers to other drivers, the statement of reference and its contents, and the storage and delivery of driver’s documents after reference. This means exempt drivers in road traffic or refer to the application of a specific regulation. Finally, it is important to stress that the final proposal for a law will undoubtedly ensure a higher level of protection and greater equality of posted workers in the Republic of Croatia as a host country and prevent social dumping and unfair competition with more effective sanctioning cross-border abuse of the application of rules and regulations in the area of posting of workers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11495	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? We have one replica, the esteemed representative Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11496	Here's the thing, I'm only interested in one question. Therefore, whether workers must be provided under this proposal, means that the workers addressed must be provided with a minimum wage, and only if there are no extended collective agreements in that branch and the compensation paid by the domestic worker under the collective contract or otherwise, until the agency workers are paid less than the salary of the employee of the host. Is that in this, therefore, version of the bill like that? Can we just say that this is exactly what I just said?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11497	Here, thank you very much. So there is no minimumer but more favourable rights, means guaranteed income and as far as agency workers are concerned, means more favourable rights, if they have more unfavourable rights in their country, the rights of agency workers in the Republic of Croatia must be assumed.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11498	Okay. So, the committee reporter got back to you? I'm opening a debate. The first to hold the debate came the Honorable Representative Miro Bulj, the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11499	Thank you very much. Fellow Members and colleagues, distinguished representatives of the Croatian Government, Croatian citizens, when we pass labour laws then we talk about the situation in the Republic of Croatia so that we simply lose workers and workers, simply disappears by creating conditions of the legal framework for our people to go out to have the same conditions as their workers is another blow to demographics in the Republic at the same time that under these lights we talk about significant economic growth before the Covid crisis, about the desert billions that will be given to us by the EU, and we know that we are at the bottom after withdrawing funds from the EU and at the same time when we talk about employment, the employment has been violated solely by their rights. By God and by man, a worker must receive his salary, and this is no example in the Republic of Croatia. From personal experience in my field and beyond, I can talk about it. I stood by Dalmatian workers a long time ago because I couldn't believe that women didn't receive 10 months' wages for a marenda, nor could they give their children a marenda, let alone, for school, let alone something to accomplish. So there was terror over people who worked and created additional values. So what do we have now? We have regulations and EU directives that will continue to emigrate our workers from Croatia, we have shut down companies, we have our resources such as forests. that we export logs, and the finished products are created in other countries of Italy together that have gone with that resource for small money, little money has gone and our labour force has gone. At the same time when we talk about problems in the Republic of Croatia, about our workers then I turn around and think of building a highway. Then the Split Iron, Sisak, collapsed everything, and the highway was built, and at that moment neither the gram of iron from Croatian irons, the products from Croatian iron in Croatia were installed in highways, in numerous viaducts, in bridges all that was needed, nor grams, all that was exported from other countries was the only thing that collected raw materials in us, sent to tankers in other countries to process it, and at the same time the workers who dealt with it now came to me from the nearest ironworks in Kašteli that had tradition and good products and good quality labour. As for that trigger that's supposed to be in the Republic of Croatia, which makes us recognizable, it's shipbuilding. Shipbuilding is something that should be progressive in progress that is an export product. Whoever installs a tree in the ship, who installs electricity that installs any part of it is a normal export product, because these ships were mostly exported, the highest quality ships were produced in Croatia. The Split Square used to be in my Cetina region, Dalmatia's Zagorje took 60 buses towards Split, today 2.5 vans half empty. And that's the policy that killed essentially what should have been developmental and what we have tradition. When we talk about country workers, farmers and peasants, the same thing. For years, our farmer has been constitutionally violating his right to appeal, the right to appeal for the division of agricultural land, incentives and all. So that farmer who competed for the incentive couldn't complain or assign farm land. Now imagine who we are, and now to you, the Constitutional Court has told you that you have divided hundreds of billions of money illegally and illegally. And who's going to answer? We have an empty village. So from peasants, a strong village in the Republic of Croatia, workers in the country to workers who moved out of the country, of course, now processes fields in Ireland, now instead of in our equal Slavonia and Lika to plant a piece of potatoes so that we don't import into the national park of cumir from Egypt to sell for the field of images, so that, of course, imports are imported from Egypt and Egypt's potato for the face of the fields or in our Slavonia, when you throw a cup in the field like this will pop up. We have a problem, gentlemen. We have a problem. We have a problem. We have a problem. We have an example of Zadar, I was in Zadar the other day where basic union rights, not an increase in rights, aunts who share our education system, why? Is our kids at the University of Zadar making food. It's such a repression against these people for basic human rights, labour rights. Not only are they humiliated in terms of workers' rights, but human rights. I went downstairs to talk to those people, I'm gonna go again. So I call on you to solve this problem that was solved in the 19th century on labour rights, so it's God and man. It's not even a question of ideology, I personally am from a working peasant family, I'm not from some family under the bell, and that's it. So who gives us extra value? A worker, a peasant. Triba helps an entrepreneur get to the workforce, but how will he get to the workforce, in what way? In a way of exploiting and not paying. Why? Did the state not regulate relations because all our resources on the principle of Slovenia 9, if I did not miss a number, were not mentioned for a long time. So the division of prey in politics is an important division of prey here, and we parliamentary representatives, regardless of what this regulation may allow for some things to improve, but we are the only ones doing here, we also prescribe EU directives. We are not at all tribals then exist, could be the European Commission or who upstairs some big brown someone around whom everyone bows down to write down certain regulations and directives and we copy it and shouldn't waste time. I mentioned earlier in Croatia the attitude towards the worker has led to the fact that we have no more workers and no longer anyone to fight for workers' rights basic human and worker rights, and this has become so much social insensitivity, insolence. People started watching for a while, but look at yourself and look at your work and see if you can get into some party that was in power, the county, the HDZ, was SDP, so if you're going somewhere you're going. It's not good, it's not good, it's always had to be solidarity. In my Dalmatia, when the Dalmatian girl fell, others kept quiet, and the second, there was not a general group of people networked so many interested groups that people began to fear for their families, their jobs. And what do we have today? We don't have a worker, we don't have a worker. As far as shipbuilding is concerned, we had the highest quality of welders, drills, vats, installers to projects of the highest quality and most awarded ships were in Croatian ships, tankers' sailing, passenger's highest quality. And today these people are the best quality, you know? In China, in Irish shipyards, in foreign shipyards, projects work there, welds and bras. And we are for these countries, the level of shipbuilding we used to be is a simple language and this is true, this is true. If you can deny me, deny me. Are the rights of our merchants, here's a question for you, our wife's cashier the same salary in the trade chain as in Austria? No, they're ten times bigger there, and we're like in the EU. And in us literally women can't go to the bathroom and throw diapers under which the pressure is below minimum wage. Our mothers, our sisters, they're ours, we can sit here and act now, but that's the way it is. We can put on 100 ties, 100 suits, 100 heels I don't know what we wear everything doesn't matter, but the fact is that in Croatia, workers' rights are not respected, not in the country, not in the city, not in the company, not in the store, not anywhere. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11500	The next debate on behalf of the Association of Representatives of Homeland, Croatian sovereigns, the distinguished representative of Hrvoje Zekanovic. He's gone. He's losing his right. The next debate is on behalf of the Association of MPs of the Homeland Movement, the distinguished representative of Ruzica Vukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11501	... HS, respected secretary of state, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. [[Speaker not enabled]] Businesses based in the EU are free to provide services in other Member States and to send their workers to work for a certain time on the territory of another EU Member State or on the territory of the European Economic Area. Elimination of barriers to the free provision of services based on fair competition while ensuring an adequate level of protection of workers' rights is one of the most important objectives of the EU. This law adopts the following EU directives into Croatian legislation. Directive 96/71 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 December '96. on the posting of workers in the framework of the provision of services, Directive 2014/67 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 May 2014 implementing Directive 96/71, and subsequently EU Directive 2018/957 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 28 June 2018. amending Directive 96/71. Therefore, it is evident from the above that our system of trom and only for the implementation of the final legislative proposals, or European directives, requires a few years. Despite the fact that this Law on the sending of workers to the Republic of Croatia and the cross-border implementation of monetary penalty decisions in order to protect workers, regardless of the rights applicable to the working relationship of the posted worker, are governed by the working conditions and the rights of workers referred to in the framework of cross-border provision of services for limited time in the EU, we are therefore talking about the category of labour rights protected and by the constitution of each individual EU member state. This law prescribes the obligations of the employer and the rules and procedures of mutual assistance and cooperation of the competent authorities of the Member States in the cross-border implementation of monetary penalty decisions taken by the competent authority or confirmed by the administrative authority or the court of a Member State referred to to the service provider established in one Member State of the European Economic Area for infringement of the right of the posted worker or infringement of the rules on the posting of workers. If we are talking about workers' rights, it is certainly affirmative of the fact that, if the working conditions laid down in this law are guaranteed, more favourablely governed by the law of the foreign employer’s country of establishment and applicable to the working relationship of the posted worker than the law of the Republic of Croatia on the posted worker shall apply to it a more favourable right. Furthermore, the appropriate and effective application and enforcement of the rules applicable are key elements in the protection of the rights of posted workers, as well as in ensuring equal conditions for service providers. In practice, however, because of the difficulties in controlling and controlling the application of rules in cross-border cooperation, guaranteed rights of addressed workers are often not respected or different phenomena of abuse and overcoming existing rules, which have been largely discussed in the presentations by representatives clubs in the first reading of the law, as well as in the presentation of themselves in front of the Association of Representatives of the Homeland Movement. We agree that the existing differences between Member States' systems in the implementation of administrative sanctions and fines imposed in cross-border cooperation or situations affecting the proper functioning of the internal market by providing services for infringements of guaranteed rights of posted workers and infringements of the rules on reference and preventing the achievement of an equal level of protection of these workers at EU level. The Association of State Movement Representatives considers that there were no obstacles to the implementation of a comprehensive public debate on this subject, to well-intentionedly suggest to the legislator the opening of the ministry to users not only through longer e-consultation procedures but also through other forms of communication with the interested public. I am convinced that this is exactly how the ministry would obtain information from a field that is truly worth such dry gold. So, the information that is useful when creating policies that concern users on the ground. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11502	Next debate on behalf of SDP's Club of Representatives, distinguished representative Eric Fabianic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11503	The Honorable Chairman, Your Honor. We are discussing a law called the Detached Workers' Act in the jargon, so workers from other EU countries or the European Economic Area, which includes among other things the Swiss Confederation, are therefore addressed to the Republic of Croatia. They should also be guaranteed the same rights or rights that are more favourable than the country which, from the employer of the country that comes from the country that sends workers to Croatia and the other way around. It's relatively easy to talk about this subject, unfortunately. Unfortunately, because of our internal reality, this essentially has a slight impact on our labour market. Notably, because the data itself says so, which is that our Croatian companies that send workers out are 4 and a half times more than businesses from the EU and the European Economic Belt that send workers to the Republic of Croatia. So 4.5 times that. The Croatian companies generally send 66% so people who go to work as detached from Croatia, 66% are related to Germany, then we still have high percentages that are related to Italy and some other countries such as Sweden around 3%. On the other hand, the detached workers who come to Croatia are the most Slovenians for miracle, although the outdated data of them are almost as much as 60 per cent. So I'm talking about percentages I'm not talking about numbers. Why am I saying that? Because we have entered the EU and there must be reciprocity related to, it is one way to protect and our workers who are outside, not by this regulation, are doing so by German or by the regulations of other countries in which they work and otherwise. How, why doesn't he have an impact on the labour market or he's got a bad kid? Because we are at the bottom of the EU in terms of tariffs, that is to say, pay the captain's fee or compensation or whatever we want to call them. So it's one thing that matters, and we're not going to settle it by this law, it's a matter of the functioning of our supervisory system, our inspections, it's a matter of the functioning of the system, of the legal system, of the rule of law. Why did the EU begin to regulate this in '95, '94? Because it happened that the countries with which she had already had an accession and co-operation agreement, this is simply through the release of the labour market, and even at bilateral level, it happened that people in Poland were working with Polish wages and of course it hit the German labour market and then it started to think about how to do it, how to get rid of it, and it was solved by one of the first Directives of '96. in order to be elaborated in some interpretations 2014, in order to have this last one since 2018, where certain rights are much better established and the A1 form related to the work of the detached worker, i.e. that there is a common database and what is very important common surveillance system within the EU Member States. Why am I saying that? So that those injustices that were happening, felt by Croatian citizens abroad, would not happen. I'll give you two examples. We have a Croatian citizen who works in Italy at a car transport company that comes because of the crisis then Italian even receives help as an employer from the state not because of Covid, but is moving the company to Slovenia because it comes to him, it comes cheaper and of course quits to the Croatian citizen by racketeering him to move to the Slovenian company for the Slovenian tariff. So it's called company delocalization, it was a phenomenon, a phenomenon in the '90s when many European strong companies began to move their own and production plants to where the labour price was more competitive. It doesn't happen today and it doesn't manifest that much. And we have our heroes who, for example, would register the d.o.o., his phone number would be for example. The children's kindergarten, contracted for work, workers were sent outside with messy papers although the contract on work was completely clean, even paid for HZMO's addition to the supplement, but at the time the salaries were to be distributed by the contract of services that the Croatian employer, which the Croatian employer gave was not a jury account from the company that hired the workers but had given the number of jury accounts of the craftsman with the same name and last name. When it was discovered, then at the door of the Adriatic, these bar workers were able to lift their work books and of course the employer on the Croatian side was not, there were no sanctions but only the part that was related to the work dispute but this is also about fraud. So what is very important is that it is regulated and regulated at a multi-reciprocal level like the EU and it is therefore good that we have such a law and as I said in this case, unlike the Foreign Law should not have too much influence on our.../incomprehensible/... Otherwise, we would have told me a different energy if we had the conditions and the price of the work of Germany, Switzerland, Luxemburg, which we don't have. So this law is good for me, it can always be better, that we have the latest update as the promoter who is related to transport where, for example, Mr. Macron has protected the French market in some way, but only for the part where France's starting point, so when we talk about transport and where the final destination of transport France, we have no need for such protection measures, we should essentially be bothered that the initiative that is related to France is because our drivers who work as defacto workers through Croatian car transport companies, but also a bunch of them working in foreign and foreign companies are affected. What's more important to say, it's this, yeah, the price of work. I'll go back to the labour price again, talk about the labour price. In fact, I think that we must really support that initiative that is related to the fair or minimum labour price at EU level because it will also remove certain shortcomings that are related to the directive on detached workers, and I think we should really work on it because the labour price for Croatian workers is uncompetitive. 46 thousand workers, specifically working in Croatian companies abroad. These 46,000 come to you about 2.3% of the working population, unlike the ones we receive, so by which they are regulated under this law, they are 0.6% compared to the working-active population in the Republic of Croatia. Why am I saying that? I am speaking because there is one fear, so that after a person is working as a decommissioned worker, to then move directly into that company, so in that company that had previously had a Croatian cooperative, and that is only because they have better working conditions, a better tariff system. Here, thank you, so much for me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11504	Thank you. Now we're gonna take a break until 12 o'clock to blow up the premises, and then we're gonna move on at 12 o'clock. It's 11:30. Here's a colleague. We're moving on with our work. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING AT 11:59 A.M.]] The next is the HDZ Representatives' Club of Honored Representative Mladen Karlic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11506	Thank you, dear vice president of HS. The esteemed secretary of state with an associate. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Here is the final proposal of the Law on the sending of workers to the Republic of Croatia and the cross-border implementation of decisions on fines coming to us at the time of the great pandemic of the crown of the virus and the mobility of workers certainly far less than would have been expected, however, the epidemic will probably pass, and this law will remain for the future. Freedom of provision of services, free movement of workers, freedom of business creation are fundamental principles of the internal market in the EU and incorporated into the EU's operating contract. Businesses established in the EU are free to provide services in other Member States and to send their workers to work for a certain time on the territory of another EU Member State or European economic space. Elimination of barriers to the free provision of services based on fair competition to ensure an adequate level of protection of workers' rights is a lasting objective for the EU. Within the single EU market, the reference of workers to cross-border services is a specific form of cross-border mobility of workers to be distinguished from other forms of migration. The temporary nature is some fundamental feature of the reference in the context of cross-border provision of services unlike the persons seeking a job in another country, the posted worker already has a working relationship with the employer in the country in which he normally works and is returned to it after a job is done, so he does not burden workers or the system to which he comes because it is a worker who is returning to his job. This final draft of the law establishes a comprehensive legal framework which adopts, in one act, EU directives aimed at protecting workers' labour rights or working conditions during reference to limited time in a country where the worker normally does not work, which increases legal certainty, which is very important to him. Among other things, the proposal for this law provides for a number of questions to the addressed worker to be guaranteed the right to compensation for the work carried out and the compensation for the work carried out is defined. Instead of the prescribed right of the seconded worker to the guaranteed minimum wage in the Republic of Croatia as a host country, the list of rights guaranteeing the posted worker during temporary work in the Republic of Croatia with two additional rights relating to the quality of accommodation and the costs of internal mobility of workers is extended, the right to long term reference is introduced and a new and higher level of protection is laid down to guarantee the long-term posted worker but the possibility of the employer to inform about the need to extend the period of reference, the conditions of work of posted agency workers are more detailed and equal treatment to the domestic agency worker is more clearly defined. Liabilities of the foreign temporary employment agency as an employer shall be defined in the case where the worker is referred to the customer based or operating in the Republic of Croatia. The obligation of a domestic user to whom the Agency has sent an agency worker to inform the foreign agency of the salary and other working conditions applicable to its employees shall be established. The possibility of cooperation with other EU Member States, the European Commission and other EU bodies is regulated. The obligation to ensure access to information on variable conditions, employer's obligations and other rules to be followed in the Republic of Croatia shall be governed. The rules and procedures of mutual cooperation and assistance of bodies in the cross-border implementation of decisions on administrative and monetary penalties shall be laid down, enabling conditions for more effective punishment of any abuse, bypassing the applicable rules in the field of posting of workers. This law ensures that new rules and mechanisms of protection and control are implemented primarily in order to achieve greater protection of the rights and positions of posted workers, but also to ensure fairer conditions for a fair competition on the internal market, while at the same time harmonising the same area of movement of residence and work of foreigners with the proposal of the Foreigners Act, which should enter into force in 1.1.2021, in which sense, it is proposed that this law enters into force at that time. The HDZ Club will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11507	We move on to individual debates, the first respected representative of Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11508	Thank you very much. Talking about labour rights in Croatia is a real question, but this Parliament Yeah, yeah. [[You want to pass here for a pay phone?]] Thank you very much. Talking about labour rights in our homeland is really a topic that should be held at the plenary session thematic session because at this point we are looking at rights that are broken down by workers, and basically, labour in the Republic no longer exists. The trade unions are weakened because of their unhappiness, because of the social insensitivity of all our citizens, workers are simply left to themselves without any rights in any segment. So the directives and regulations, the EU's orders will be implemented but at this point, no matter what these regulations mean, it's good for this speaker to say that we all parliamentary deputies do as much as possible, as I said, in the name of the club that both by God and by man and, and, and, and, by manifest, by the triba, the fundamental human right to pay, the right to rest, and in us, I simply mentioned trade chains when I see our cash registers essentially for much less wages within the EU to which we are called, where we are a member, have much less rights in the Republic. Just rewrite the regulation to meet some European criteria isn't enough, it's not enough, it's not enough. Here's a few days ago, I'll mention one more time. I was in Zadar with an aunt who took care of our children. They're part of the election, they're part of the education system. These women are preparing food for our students, our children, even these women aren't looking for, which surprised me when you called me, when I got there they don't ask for an increase in wages, they're just asking for the legal union right to be in collective agreements a provision on the height of wages and nothing more. It's the same with our medical staff. What's the problem? Because medical staff in other EU member states are much better paid. The only thing Croatia pays for is to educate these people in medical staff. Those health workers are forgotten. We remember them in crises and in crisis situations, but the team, the medical staff that is missing, is terribly difficult, terribly difficult. We've invested in the Republic of Croatia on retraining for nurses, the most nursed. I wonder why today, nurses who have certain skills don't get involved in the hospital system now that we're missing, the health system, the employees, with their knowledge and experience that they've acquired in practice in nursing homes or I don't know everything where? They're on the Bureau, and the state paid for the requalification, so the money's spent, and at the same time the highest quality professional staff goes to other countries. So when we talk about laws, we have to talk about laws in all segments. Once again, we had the strongest shipbuilding, we were at the world level doing the best products. Here's the vice president of the assembly from my county, knows what Squire was, which meant Squirt, Brodosplit. It meant economic exports and economic growth, and today when we look, all those people who worked at Shipyard from all levels are working on other countries. And never again did the state give a boost to one time or another. dedicated funds to be spent by the state and which is good... Shipbuilding, however, those who privatised it did not invest in shipbuilding and the development of shipbuilding, and that is what the state's audit publicly said, workers and workers deserve their wages and their rights. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] This was fought in the 19th century, and today in Croatia unfortunately we have destroyed our resources and our workers, but not the triba of losing hope, we can do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11509	You have a replica, talk to Mr. Bull. Dear Representative Ante Kujundzic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11510	Here's the President, dear colleague Bulj, the esteemed colleagues and fellow MPs. In fact, this bill is in close connection with the proposal, as you have just noticed yourself and in fact, with the Foreign Law and there is a real danger due to art. 20 of this law is, in fact, a danger in terms of import labour from third countries which are actually employers, if I am not mistaken, based in the EU or some other EEA Contracting State or the Swiss Confederation. So the question is whether there is a real danger and fear of lowering the labour price to the Republic of Croatia or whether there is a risk of shutting down certain activities that will actually be complemented by foreign corporations and workers of the same, whether through short-term or long-term reference. The salaries in Croatia are long ago at the level of peanuts, so here's what you think about it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11511	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11512	Thank you very much. Well, colleague Kujundzic, that's exactly what the problem is in Croatia the Foreign Law has been so liberalized that there is no more quota and of course the cheap workforce will come here to work for small money, and our people experts from that can't, living workers can't live in the Republic of Croatia out of these profits. And of course it will compromise and affect demographic policy and, of course, that, and because of that, we have colleagues Kujundzic and colleagues 6% of GDP from foreign donations, no one else had more in Europe, Ireland had so much when it was the worst economy, when they were moving out. So 6%, 20 billion kunas of GDP send us our most professional people that we've been in the last two, three, four years. emigrated to other countries and of that, it is the worst policy that has happened, and at the same time the Croatian government is unfortunately boasting with good results and tricking us with this cowardly egg as a struggle for labour rights.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11513	The next individual debate is the distinguished representative Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11514	So this isn't about that law we're going to talk about tomorrow, and that's the Foreigner Act where we're going to talk loudly about what's been said now, and that's the full liberalisation of the labour market. We are talking about another law here, and it is interesting because it is a clear reflection of European legislation where Europe protects its workforce, the labour market equating the working conditions of the posted workers and its domestic workers. Tomorrow, when we talk about the Foreign Law, we have to ask why we don't do it, why we don't paint the same rules, we have double criteria, and this isn't the first law, there's a series of laws where we have double criteria where we mean for domestic labour there's no protection, there's no protection for the domestic labour price, but we're taking over a European legislation that protects foreign labour, especially because as it's been said here more times, we won't actually have a lot of cases to apply this law at all because, as we've heard so four times as many of our workers do abroad than these foreign workers from the EU are working with us. Now, so this law is a clean formality, it's hard or not to support it, it refers to European workers, there are not too many of these European companies. So we're going to have a couple of these managers coming from Austria, Italy, to which this law is going to apply, but the law is interesting because we should learn what we're going to do and what we need to reflect on the law that we're going to talk about tomorrow. Now, I asked a question and I got a weird answer. So what I was interested in, which is how equal rights must be provided to workers who are being referred to in Croatia, so whether this applies to the minimumer, whether it refers to the fee that has been determined by the collective agreement, as far as I've seen it seems to me, the answer is yes, yes, so I'm a little confused here because how you answered me, but the answer is yes. So not only must a minimumer be provided to these posted workers, yes, the minimumer must only be provided if there are no extended collective agreements in that branch but the compensation provided by the domestic worker under the collective contract or otherwise needs to be provided for agency workers, so, for agency workers and compensation, it must not be less than the salary of the employee employed by the host. So either a minimumer or a collective contract, or if it's about an agency worker, that minimum fee that has to be equal. So all the fuses are west of the Western rich centre used not to ban foreign workers from coming in for less than to equalise the rights of foreign and domestic workers and then stop the need for foreign labour. And it seems to me that something must be done in the Foreign Law. In this way, the German company was protected from competition and low labour prices by which the company that sends workers from Croatia is applying and who are workers and how much their average salaries are, how much the average salaries of our workers are, etc. So, in this case, we will probably look for such workers with a candle, it will be a very small number of workers that we will protect here, but on the other hand, all of the means of the army of our construction workers going abroad should be protected by this law in the sense that they do not have to go abroad to do these jobs rather than to protect this completely opposite policy, which is the liberalisation of labour from non-EU countries and that the price of work protects our construction workers who go abroad. Tomorrow they'll probably tell us why they're going to liberalize the workforce, so because there are no workers, we'll get that in response tomorrow. It's not that there are no workers but that our salaries are several times lower than the salaries in the western rich countries of the center. And if we could even the wages, then there wouldn't be a need for that migration. Thus, even the unequal development of Europe's centre and periphery relationship is at stake if we give workers equal rights across the EU.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11515	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Marko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11516	Dear Vice-President of the Assembly, the Honorable Secretary of State, Assistant Minister, fellow Members and colleagues today, we are discussing addressed workers. Tomorrow we'll discuss the Foreign Law, quotas. When we see how many of these addressed workers in 2020 have so far been granted just over 1.150 permits, almost half of them coming to Croatia come from Slovenia 456, 236 Italy, 96 Austria. So, this law mostly defends our workers but our employees who are employees of our companies who get jobs abroad and these jobs work as employees of our companies. The European Commission was just walking with the proposal and I remember the European Council being present when this directive was adopted where equal wages were required for equal work. In other words, in this segment more of our workers will get by working for Croatian companies in Germany, Austria, Slovenia that they will have the same conditions as the workers who are employed there. This is how we protect our workers who do jobs abroad for Croatian companies, receive salaries and taxes here. Tomorrow we'll discuss the same thing, about the Foreign Law, and I see that this is tied to one package. This law will absolutely not lead to any imports of labour because we have a single market and I say that so far, as far as directed workers from other EU countries are concerned, there are just over 1150 permits this year. When we talk about whether some of this will lead to a reduction in labour prices, we will discuss the same tomorrow. I would like to remind you that the average salary has also increased by 1147 kuna within this mandate, that we have over 110 000 jobs, that 78 000 young people have received a contract indefinitely. Therefore, all these packages, if we look at tomorrow and today, will lead to a more competitive economy. There's no concern with this package tomorrow that it'll lead to a reduction in the labour price, it's a bit of a worry, and tomorrow we'll discuss it in more detail. So today's package on posted workers is just a alignment with the European package, going towards going to our workers' hands if we have 10 thousand of our employees in Croatia who are doing the jobs of Croatian companies in EU countries, and with tomorrow's package we will discuss more in detail the import of labour force, the strategy of importing labour force, and I will also say in a more detailed debate why this does not affect the labour market and why we do not have a reduction in labour prices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11517	We have two replicas, the first distinguished representative Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11518	Well, first of all, I'm always surprised by this when I hear this, this from HDZ to boast about the rise in labour costs, the undefined employment of young people in a country that has the highest percentage of labour-efficient eviction, the almost highest percentage of labour-efficient eviction in the EU, where the highest number of young people are working on the preeminent Labour Contracts where we are absolute champions, so at a low rate of employment, we really have one of the lowest employment rates. So when you say there was an increase in the minimum of 150 kuna, of course that sounds great when you start from a very low position. Surely, the increase in minimum wage is not something to boast about in a country where you lower taxes for those with 30,000 kuna gross wages, and to those with below 15,000 kuna you give for peanuts. [[Intruder: Time]] But this law certainly doesn't determine, so nothing. As far as our, okay, workforce is concerned. [[Intruder: Time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11519	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11520	Thank you very much. Well, I'd just like to tell you right now, maybe even about the minimumer. Croatia with these 754 kunas and 150 would come quickly to those recommendations made by the European Trade Centers from which we had at 60% of the salary average. So, in haste, much faster than any other country is going to do. We are aware, but we are also aware of the issues of competitiveness of the economy and that there is a need to raise competences and productivity in order to make the economy competitive. Therefore, we are going in this direction, we have increased the minimum wage 3 times more than the previous 3 governments, we are going towards making it worthy of life, but also to ensure that our craftsmen and our companies are competitive, especially in northern Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11521	The next replica is Honorable Representative Miro Bulj. And he pulled, okay. Finally in the name of the club, and the replica, Angelko Strick, the distinguished representative of the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11522	Thank you, Vice President HS, State Secretary with associates, colleagues and colleagues. By the spring of this year, the current government, and also before the year before, ended each year with GDP growth, budget surplus, average and minimum wage growth, raising funds from EU funds, or looking at economic indicators, everything was positive. However, due to the occurrence of the coronary virus, of course all of this is slowed down, but the current government, of course, is taking all the necessary steps. First of all, the protection of the health system and human health, the protection of jobs and, of course, the continuation of all investments, and that is the most important thing for workers.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11523	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11524	Thank you very much. Well, you're right, not only did we do it in previous governments, but also the funds that, especially from European funds, have provided 8 billion kuna for 600,000 jobs, but only today is 154,000 unemployed, over the summer there were about 149-150.000. So our unemployment has grown within the crisis by several thousand places just doing 8 billion kuna support. Can we do better? We can. Is demographics a big problem and a challenge? It is. So who is this, if not this government has just insisted at European level, that Vice-President of the European Commission Dubravka Shuica gets a portfolio and that there is a portfolio for demography? Who, if not this government has just responded to this problem? But we're aware of the moment, we're aware of the crown of the crisis and 600,000 jobs were saved for the first time with 8 billion kuna investments.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11525	Lastly, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, Honorable Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11526	Says MP Pavić, I'll go with him, we protect the workers. It's best if you don't protect or help because the results are visible, the results are important. Also when you were minister in pre-election time, there was Minister Pavic down in my Zagora and said in Imotsko 50 million kuna how much support, 150 million, billions. Do you know how much has been accomplished in the Cetitian province and in Imotski since his promise? Zero. And now he's going to do it again, but not him, but he's going to repeat his successor, and that's the problem. We here need to talk about employment and also about the Law on Foreigners related to the liberalisation of the market, particularly this Government of the Republic of Croatia. The Continuity of the Government in the past term, we have not discussed the Marrakesh compact in parliament at all, but a decision has been made on its own initiative. And the fact that Dubravka Shuica is the Commissioner for Demography, do you know what that means for Croatia so far, same zero kuna, same zero kuna. As long as 6% of GDP is from foreign credits, it says that this is a missed economic policy, missed, I repeat again. I'll bring up two cases here. What is the attitude towards employment in Croatia? We have the Auto Transport Sinj which has triangulated to capitalise on Transport Makarska and which was signed in 2005, the contract is not fulfilled, the Auto Transport Sinj and the Labour has been trampled, strike more people, receive no salaries of people, absolutely nothing has been done, absolutely, the Auto Transport has been torn against the contract signed on the recapitalisation and restructuring, but we have a binco debtor in the finance minister who is now sitting here behind the pillar. So I invite him to activate that debt he holds in his safe, signed by his predecessor in 2005. Schuker and let the money be paid to the harm of those people who were on hunger strike, I repeat, I was with the workers at the time, I was tried, brought in, I don't know everything that happened at the time. People who created better values. The same problem is when we talk about the self-sufficiency of castellanic greenhouses. I'm glad that the former workers will get paid, but the one who broke up now that they're full, means 14 acres, 5 million kilos of our salad, pickles, our products and come to cut water and electricity to the man who pays 30 salaries to our workers who work in the greenhouse and who are sick of what they do because they have much better conditions than other workers. But there is no mercy here, no matter how much we import EUR 3 billion, that's what my colleague Sanader knows, which is why we import EUR 3 billion of food products. We have many other workers I mentioned to Dalmatinka, Designer Lavčević, who at construction levels in other countries not only Europe but Africa, Asia was doing the most complicated projects, and today the Chinese are working on a bridge. In other faraway countries, these companies worked. Why were they destroyed? Targeted, privatized to destroy, to take the harvest and that's it. Well, Croatians are known as the labour force of good and Croatian companies, I mentioned these two. Products, so here's my blue brick made better blocks than anyone, brick, destroyed. What was the goal of destroying that? Sadra, Cetina's company now owned by the county, is all about destroying itself, so that channels along the Cetina River can be given to a private person, of course, especially if it is with the ruling party, but it is a topic that comes to him to give him a concession to have for a pre-election campaign enough funds. They're destroying it, it's Cetina's famous '50s company. The year was founded in low construction, destroyed in order to please its party friends and others. Therefore, employment in Croatia is simply forgotten, and these ministers formerly, these 2/3 of Croatia are not a demographic breakdown, but it is unfortunately a burned country but I live in hope and I invite everyone to come back to live here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11527	Lastly, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, the distinguished representative Marko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11528	Thank you very much. The Honorable Vice-President of the Assembly, State Secretary, Assistant Minister, colleagues and colleagues, so if any government has done for workers and workers, it is the government of Andrej Plenkovic and HDZ's government. Here we are now discussing the protection of those who go abroad but are employees of Croatian companies still remain employees in Croatia but are going to temporary work abroad. And when we talk about employment in general, we have just reformed active employment policy measures. When we arrived, most young people could only get the chance through professional training without a working relationship. 70% of them were in the state, the public administration cooked coffee and nothing worked and then went back to the stock market. We've changed it, we've strengthened the traineeship. We have raised or the government has raised the incentive for self-employment to 100,000. The Secretary of State will know for the next year the 130 000 goes. We tripled the number of young people opening firms, we gave them the chance, 78 000 young people are more employed indefinitely, so they got security. My colleague Peovic will continue to say that we have a high level of premium work, that we have, but as a state we can only encourage, and encourage exactly with tax policy, there is Vice President Maric and with a policy to free young people from taxes by the age of 30. to 35, respectively. Therefore, by reducing the tax premium on youth employment, we have greatly influenced this result so that 78 000 young people can move on to an indefinite agreement. We've raised the minimum wage three times more than in the previous three governments, 754 kuna + 150, 1147 kuna has increased the average salary, 6000 women have been employed within the "Wish". Mr. Bulj said what not to hire nurses in hospitals, so they are not, they are working, they are working on the programme "Try", a billion and a half kuna for them, 208 specialization only from the European Social Fund for Doctors. We have EUR 23.5 billion for the future period, and these are the contracts Mr. Bulj mentioned for Cetitska and the Imotska province will be realised. If you're so suspicious of it, and Mr. Kujundzic's kindergarten is going to be built at your club, give it up if you think it's important money, say thank you very much no, but don't say it's not real projects. Give up all the projects your members have on it. In conclusion, this bill makes a significant contribution to the protection of our workers abroad. If a government has done it for employment, this government, 8 billion kuna invested in active employment policy measures, 8 billion kunas invested in job protection measures due to the covid crisis, 16 billion kunas invested in employment. To put it in context, the past SDP government of 4 billion kunas in 4 years, so 4 times more investment in employment. Once again, is demographics a challenge and a problem for us to know whether all the new countries that came to the EU went through, that, of the 22 million Romanians over 4 million evicted, of the 9 million Bulgarians over 2 million evicted. That is why Croatia's demographic initiative has become a European topic. We have the Vice-President of the European Commission for Demography, and it will be the one who will design a scan and a proposal for measures that will then be financed from the recovery programme and from the new multiannual financial framework to go in the direction of measures that support the remaining youth. And perhaps the greatest measure for remaining young... It is tax reform and congratulations to Minister Maric that we now have a tax reform that will enable young people, and with good positions, good wages, to stay in the Republic of Croatia. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11529	We have one breach from the Rules of Procedure, the Honorable Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11530	Since we don't obviously live in the same country me and my colleague Pavić, I'm withdrawing the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11531	On behalf of the promoter, the finally respected Secretary of State Dragan Jelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11532	Thank you very much. I'll be brief. Dear MPs and distinguished MPs in HS thank you for a constructive debate on the issues covered by this final draft law. It should once again be pointed out that the final draft of the law is a balanced legal framework, meaning primarily with the aim of promoting social justice to ensure greater protection of workers and, as necessary, to preserve the freedom to provide services on a fair basis. This objective is achieved in particular by ensuring greater equality of the rights of posted workers from the rights of workers in the host country, which has really been a lot of words here in the debate, and by preventing the abuse of the right to uniform application of the rules, but by ensuring equal operating conditions. It should therefore be pointed out that the final draft of the law does not allow reference within the framework of cross-border provision of services, nor does it restrict its duration, nor does the above limit be set until it is possible to provide services across borders. The final bill also does not regulate the matter of entry, which is very important to say, the stay and work of third-country nationals, but remains subject to special regulation. Therefore, the final proposal for a law to achieve greater social convergence increases legal certainty, the level of protection of workers' rights and the situation of posted workers, and achieves fairer conditions for a competition in the internal market, which are the permanent objectives not only of the EU but also of the Republic of Croatia. So this law, although we introduce the directives here into our law and, and we protect workers who come from other countries, we protect them and domestic workers do not allow the dumping price of work, we do not allow other companies to come with a low labour price but they must have the same rights at least as our workers, and thus in some way we encourage these companies that work here to better employ domestic workers rather than bring out posted workers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11533	Wait, please, there's a replica. Dear Representative Miro Bulj, please. Miro Bulj, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11534	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, when you say this is not your legal proposal, this is a copy of a regulation or an EU directive, it can be done by anyone who has a program at home, a 10-year-old child, this is a copying. Whether there's a good side or a bad side, we can discuss it. You didn't put sweat drops in here to protect workers' rights. Prescription of a regulation or directive is a constant signature for you. It's a computer and a program. He's doing great for you. Secondly, I am fascinated by how you as in the ruling coalition, if mainly, mostly fellow Pavić just praised all the measures you've taken. Can you say, can you tell what the average salary in the Republic of Croatia is and compare, e.g. Here's to Austria, Germany, Denmark, other EU countries, here's to public hearing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11535	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11536	Well, here's not just copying, of course, but it's taking over the legal gains of the EU, which we owe, of course, as we have entered the EU and as I said, this is what we protect domestic workers, of course, and the parties that come here, especially from third countries, so we don't come here and work really at dumping prices, and then finally our companies don't have the opportunity to come here and offer a normal price but they have to adapt to it. As for the average price, I don't know, average wages, I don't know now by heart, but of course our economy is weaker than the economy and Austria and Germany that you mentioned and that the average price, or that the average wage is less than in those countries.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11537	The second replica is the esteemed representative Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11538	Here I will tell you what the average salary in Croatia is, therefore, 6 722 kuna, it is calculated and calculated from 2011 below the consumer basket, so when your colleague Pavić boasts that our minimum wage is already close to the 60% average salary represented by the EU, then we should say that our average salary is actually what should be a minimum wage and then we have really small, low criteria about what should be a minimum wage. But I would only ask you one detail to explain only to your colleague Pavić, that this is the Law on posting workers in Croatia, not to refer to Croatian workers in the EU, which seems to me that Pavić didn't understand very well, so he explained how we direct our workers to the EU.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11539	Thank you very much. And, yes, this is the Law on sending workers to the Republic of Croatia, but we accept EU directives which are incorporated into the laws of Germany, Austria and all, so our worker who goes to Germany has the same rights as the worker from Germany, so there is Mr Pavić. This law is not direct, but the directives that are included in this law are the same as they are in Germany and all, and of course the reciprocity is that all EU countries are expected to accept these directives, so we accept these. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11540	Thank you. We have one violation of the Rules of Procedure, Honorable Representative Ante Kujundzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11541	The Honorable Chairman has been injured. 238, so dear... The only serious project in the last 30 years, and it's no good, either these governments or all the previous ones. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If you are responsible for kindergarten, you should also be responsible for more than 2,000 people headed home and shutting down all the plants in my and your Imot region because it is again all morning at work, and so in your presentation of the paper mill ideal Croatia, therefore, here I am withdrawing the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11542	You're getting a warning. You're getting a warning because this wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure. [[You're a good learner, good learner.]] With this, we've exhausted the debate, I'm closing the debate, and we'll vote when the conditions are met. [[Good Ante.]] As we agreed on Friday, we will now hold a united debate on the following two points. The first is: - Proposal for a Law on the Deposit Insurance System, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 53 and - Proposal for a law on forced liquidation of credit institutions, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 54 The Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia under Article. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing these items of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Dear Minister Zdravko Maric, Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11545	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of HS, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Here, as it is said, a united debate, and then I will present one and the other bill. I'll start with the proposal for a deposit insurance system bill. It therefore regulates the rules and procedures relating to the establishment and operation, management and financing of the deposit insurance system in the Republic of Croatia whose key task is to ensure the security of deposits or the protection of depositors from the consequences of the occurrence of the secured case. This proposal for a law in the legal order of the Republic of Croatia transposes the 2014 Directive on deposit insurance systems through the adoption of that Directive into national legislation would improve the position of depositors or access to depositors’ systems thanks to an extended and enhanced coverage, shorter payment periods, better information and stronger funding requirements, resulting in increased consumer confidence in financial stability throughout the internal market. The aim of the bill itself is to anticipate and regulate situations where a credit institution fails, if it can lead to legal certainty related to the protection of depositors. The proposal for a law combines the provisions of the applicable Deposit Insurance Act and the Law on the State Agency for the Insurance of Deposits and Rehabilitation of Banks and proposes, among other things, a new name and an already mentioned state agency, which would read the Croatian Deposit Insurance Agency. In addition to these two draft laws in the legislative procedure, we also have a proposal for a Law on the Restitution of Credit Institutions and Investment Companies, and by adopting a new Law on the Restitution of Credit Institutions and Investment Companies, the power to resuscitate credit institutions is assumed by the CNB. Therefore, it is necessary to adapt the authority of the Agency mentioned in that section, while the Agency is empowered to participate in the coercive winding-up procedure of a credit institution in accordance with the Proposal for a Law on Forced Liquidation of Credit Institutions. As regards news or newspapers in relation to the existing arrangements, therefore in order to protect the financial stability of the system, the draft law provides for the activation of the deposit insurance system when opening a forced liquidation procedure against the credit institution, i.e. in the event of an insurance case. Then, news on the deposit insurance fund. In order to ensure more efficient use of funds and deposit insurance systems, the draft law requires that the deposit insurance fund consists of 2 parts, the underlying deposit insurance fund and the additional deposit insurance fund. The purpose of the underlying deposit insurance fund is to pay out secured deposits and at any time it must have the funds at the level of 1% of the total amount of the secured deposits of all credit institutions with the approval to work in the Republic of Croatia and according to audited financial reports for the previous year. The purpose of the additional deposit insurance fund is to complement the underlying deposit insurance fund, to support the collection of ex post premiums, to use the additional deposit insurance funds for the purpose of taking measures to prevent the occurrence of the secured case, and to finance the recovery of credit institutions and to support the financing of the forced liquidation of credit institutions. Targeting the level of the additional deposit insurance fund is 1.5% of the total amount of the secured deposits of all credit institutions authorised to work in the Republic of Croatia, also in accordance with the revised financial reports for the previous year. As regards the financing of the deposit insurance system, the deposit insurance system would be financed exclusively on the burden of credit institutions to deposit insurance members, not on the burden of other taxpayers or on the state budget of the Republic of Croatia. The draft law includes provisions laying down the reasons why the CNB will adopt a decision on the inaccessibility of deposits, the time limit for the adoption of that solution and the possibility of its abolition, which will be deleted by new amendments and additions to the Credit Institutions Act. As regards the Agency's own role, the bill defines the role of the Agency as a specialised non-profit financial institution whose aim is to protect the deposits of all secured depositors and to preserve the trust of citizens and other participants with the stability of the Croatian financial system. The Agency shall be empowered to participate in forced liquidation procedures of credit institutions in accordance with a new regulation that will regulate the forced liquidation of credit institutions, which aims to regulate and control the exit from the credit institution market which is unable to meet the necessary regulatory requirements, while limiting the spillover of negative effects of the credit institution's failure on other participants and the market as a whole. The role of the Agency has been adjusted in view of this division of the resolution powers with which the Agency ceases to be one of the rehabilitation bodies in the Republic of Croatia, however it remains in the process of recovery as a body run by the National Sanitary Fund. There are also additional proposals concerning changes within the Agency’s bodies, which is that instead of the Agency’s administration, a new supervisory board whose members as director will be appointed for a period of four years and may be re-appointed to the same functions. The members of the Supervisory Board shall appoint the Government of the Republic of Croatia on a proposal from the Minister of Finance to which one member may propose credit institutions. The Director shall be appointed by the Supervisory Board. The Supervisory Board shall, otherwise, adopt the rules laid down by this draft law, the statute, adopt the annual plan of the Agency, monitor its implementation, make the financial plan of the Agency, make the decisions prescribed by the provisions of this draft law, lay down the reports submitted by the Agency to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, decide on the other issues referred to in the Statute of the Agency. The Supervisory Board shall monitor the work of the Director of the Agency and the Agency, and shall report to the Minister of Finance, the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the HS no later than six months after the end of the calendar year for which the report relates. The Director shall represent the Agency independently and individually and shall be responsible for its work. As part of the rights and duties laid down by law, the Director of the Agency shall organise and ensure the legal and effective performance of operations in the work of the Agency, propose to the Supervisory Board the adoption of acts under its jurisdiction and implement the decisions of the Supervisory Board and carry out other tasks in accordance with this proposal. Finally, the objective of the proposal for this law is as much as possible to predict and regulate situations when a credit institution fails, which can lead to legal uncertainty related to the protection of depositors. In order to protect the financial stability of the system, the draft law prescribes the activation of the deposit insurance system when opening a forced liquidation procedure against a credit institution or in the event of an event of a security case, as well as the more effective use of funds and deposit insurance systems in such a way as to regulate the establishment of a underlying fund and an additional deposit insurance fund as well as an improvement in the functioning of the agency itself. As regards the second law, this is the proposal for a law on the forced liquidation of a credit institution, which regulates the conditions for opening and ending the process of forced liquidation of credit institutions, the legal consequences of opening up and implementing the process of forced liquidation of credit institutions, rules, procedures and instruments in procedures, as well as the powers and tasks of the body in the process of forced liquidation of credit institutions. This proposal for a law in the legal order of the Republic of Croatia also transposes the Directives of 2001, 2014 and 2017, and in view of the areas covered by them are now partially or entirely transposed by this proposal itself. The loss of any credit institution has a direct negative impact on all natural and legal persons who have had business relations with that credit institution, and in cases where this relationship involves more than 100,000 euros per client's financial resources, that is, that limit of secured deposits, in most cases natural and legal persons remain unaccessible. The primary reason for this is that long-term bankruptcy procedures, i.e. the slow cashing of assets, failed credit institutions, which, due to their financial specificity, significantly lose value over time. Credit institutions' accounts in the Republic of Croatia are currently being conducted under the Banking Act and due to the complexity of the banking sector and the impact they have on the financial system, the duration of the insolvency proceedings of credit institutions takes a long time. We counted on 30 cases when we rule out the fact that there are still six still in them, the average duration time is 14 years, and I repeat to them six are still ongoing. This, among other things, led to this bill aimed at improving existing bankruptcy in the context of credit institutions, and thus the functioning of the financial system as a whole. The coercive liquidation procedure of the credit institution shall be initiated when it is established that the credit institution fails or fails or that there are objective circumstances which have determined that the assets of the bank will be less than its liabilities or if it has been found that the bank will not be able to fulfil its obligations and it is not justified to expect that other measures of the private sector, measures of the institutional protection system, supervisory measures, supervisory measures at the stage of the early intervention or the reduction of the value or conversion of relevant instruments of capital would prevent its failure in a reasonable period of time. In the preparation activities of this bill were included except for representatives of the Ministry of Finance and representatives of the State Agency for the Insurance of Deposits and Rehabilitation of Banks and representatives of the CNB in the coverage of the Working Group established in May of this year. As regards the amendments to this law, therefore, the draft law applies to credit institutions based in the Republic of Croatia and branches of third country credit institutions which have been granted work from the CNB. The forced winding-up procedure shall be carried out for the purpose of the rapid and effective joint settlement of the credit institution's creditors in forced liquidation, the preservation of the value of the credit institution's financial assets and the liquidity of the credit institution's assets as soon as possible. The coercive liquidation procedure may also be carried out over a credit institution that is subject to a regular liquidation procedure or is subject to a resolution procedure if the conditions are met. A proposal to initiate a forced liquidation procedure shall be submitted by the CNB with a view to establishing compliance with the conditions which indicate that the credit institution is failing or will fail. The assets are less than the liabilities, the rate of regular capital, the share capital rate, the regulatory capital rate or the amount of regulatory capital are less than prescribed. It is not possible to meet the obligations under maturity or the recovery of a credit institution is not in the public interest, these are just some of the so-called triggers. The proposal to initiate the forced liquidation procedure may also be submitted by the liquidator subject to the prescribed conditions. If no special administration has been appointed at the time of the decision to submit a proposal to initiate forced liquidation in that credit institution, then, at the same time as the decision to submit a proposal for the initiation of the forced liquidation procedure, the special administration shall be appointed and temporary prohibitions of the implementation of the basis for payment of payment services, with the exception of the exceptions prescribed, which are the cash payments of debtors to the credit institution, etc. As bodies in the forced liquidation process, the Commercial Court in Zagreb, liquidator, supervisory winding-up body and congregation of creditors are designated. The liquidator, previously appointed by the supervisory winding-up body, which has to have the required expertise, experience and competence in the banking field, shall assume the powers of management of the credit institution in the forced liquidation and shall be obliged to comply with the needs of the forced liquidation procedure, which is to ensure the assets of the credit institution in the coercional winding-up process, update the credit institutions' accounts in the process of forced liquidation until the date of opening of the procedure itself, determine the Commission for the list of assets and draw up a list of assets of the credit institution. In the process of forced liquidation, draw up the initial balance sheet or the initial financial situation report of the credit institution on the date on which the forced winding-up is opened, then draw up a plan to liquidate itself by force, worry about the collection of the credit institution's demand, draw up an account of the costs of the winding-up process, and demonstrate the reported claims of the creditors. The supervisory winding-up body is the body in the coercive winding-up procedure that oversees the operation of the liquidator. In the Republic of Croatia, the supervisory winding-up body in the process of forced liquidation of a credit institution is the State Agency for the Rehabilitation of Deposits and Rehabilitation of Banks. The congregation of the believers is made up of all believers with the right to vote, the congregation of the believers approves of a plan of forced liquidation to which the supervisory winding-up body previously gave consent. It also approves the proposal to take legal actions with a view to the liquidation of assets in the coercive liquidation process, which is an integral part of the forced liquidation plan with the prior consent of the supervisory liquidation authority to propose the appointment of a new liquidator. The Board of Trustees may take all decisions under the jurisdiction of the supervisory liquidating authority and decide on other issues relevant for the implementation and completion of the forced liquidation procedure in accordance with this proposal of the law. The proposed law provides for the mandatory completion of the compulsory winding-up procedure of a credit institution within 3 years of the date of the opening of the forced liquidation procedure. The specific chapter of the draft law lays down reorganisation measures, liquidation bankruptcy proceedings with the international element. Both in conclusion and in this law, the aim of this proposal is to reduce the duration of the bankruptcy procedure, the controlled exit of a credit institution from the market with a view to reducing the risk and spilling negative effects on the rest of the financial market, and the rapid and effective joint settlement of creditors of a credit institution in a forced liquidation, the preservation of the value of the financial asset and the cashing of the assets of the credit institution within the shortest time limit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11546	We have three replicas. The first is Honorable Representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11547	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, I am speaking to you as president of the Croatian Lottery Society Assembly. Today, members of the Mandate-Immunity Commission received a request for the removal of the immunity of MP Davor Bernardic on the Croatian lottery suit. Not the director, but the company because he said in the pre-election confrontation: “As long as people are out of work, Luttria pays bonuses. As for you state-owned firms, the ATM and as far as the president of the Luttria administration is concerned, 5.6 man has made changes on the property card, entered 200 thousand kuna bonuses, registered 200 thousand kuna bonuses from the state-owned company, to them by the state of the ATM." That's the president, our president at the time said on the show, which is why the company sues him. Not the director. I am asking you as president of the Assembly to prevent the spending of state-owned money on lawyers where they will lose and to prevent that attack of a state-sponsored free speech in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11548	... [[Specially enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11549	I don't have anything special... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11550	Okay, next replica, distinguished representative Boris Lalovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11551	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor. Question, is this premium rate changing now? I see it's 0.88% here, I don't know what it is now, but somewhere around 0,... I'm just curious, I know there's been bank pressure all along to cut that part. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This, how much money there is now in the DAB, or now for the new ones in this Croatian agency, changes the name, I am interested in secured savings in the framework if you have the information. And another piece of information about this other law, did I get it right now, so this new law, this is the first time the law on this forced liquidation So now and it's a law that's never even been in the Croatian acquis, right? [[/Intruder: Yes, yes. First reading.]] It's, it's, so all the laws are, the banks went bankrupt, they executed by bankruptcy law. So now the banks won't go through with the bankruptcy law, there's a recovery, if it doesn't work out, there's a liquidation. So in other words, did I get it right, that no more banks will go by bankruptcy law, right? And these two more questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11552	Thank you very much. Here's a short answer to this last piece of replica, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, you've all noticed. As for these data, secured deposits, here, with 30.09. total deposits in the Republic of Croatia amounted to 357 billion and 63 million and something more, of which the secured deposits were 210.7 million kuna. Apropo trends over the past months, when we compare it to before the pandemic level, it's an increase of 13.6 million kuna deposits or somewhere around 9.4 million secured deposits. The amount currently in the deposit insurance fund is 6 billion 811 million 361 million and 6 kuna, when we break out what's called a debt to the Republic of Croatia as the founder, we come to an amount of 5.4 billion kuna currently at 2.54%. By the end of the year, when in accordance with existing regulations, it will rise somewhere to a level of 2.7. The premium rates, we'll define that by sublegal acts, but we're already seeing that we are currently with this law... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11553	The next replica is the distinguished representative Grozdana Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11554	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Minister. It should therefore be pointed out that the importance of this law is to ensure that depositors' funds are not paid by taxpayers all in the future, but to be made out of that mass of the amount secured, or funds that will thus be able to compensate anyone who comes into such a situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11555	Thank you, well-respected MPs on the line. You're right, and it's good that, among other things, it's further established for our citizens and everyone who's following this session because this deposit insurance system, I'm just going to remind us all together has come a lot in calling so to the public and all of us together at the beginning of that previous financial crisis. You remember that at that time, the government reacted and raised this deposit insurance limit to these existing 100,000 euros, you know that there were also a lot of talks at that time, both in HS and in the public auctioning and comparing themselves with some other countries that put it unlimitedly. We're stuck on this framework which is kind of a framework and I would say in the vast majority of countries there. This is the essence of this law to ensure that it safeguards the rights of depositors. According to this proposal, just as you said it would go completely to the burden of credit institutions, not to the burden of taxpayers or state budgets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11556	The last replica of the esteemed representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11557	Thank you very much. Minister, when we talk about credit institutions it's mostly banks, but we have and the others then I'd ask you first of all, all of us would ask these very credit institutions the most expropriate money on... in the Republic of this year 5 billion on numerous fees, commissions and that, that's the key question. Another very important issue is the citizens called, and this Parliament has unanimously passed this law that is the protection of people who have been robbed from the savings-credit cooperatives of Raiffeisen cooperatives and who are being taken home today, they are being executed, and this Parliament has unanimously passed that law both HDZ and SDP so neither the Constitution is literally adopted, unanimously, that is so-called. Scybol's law. What's with the law? And a very important question, what are you going to do about what you have in your safe, that's Bianca's employee of Auto Transport Sinj because of the non-compliance of the contract in Sinj "Transport" Makarska? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11558	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11559	Thank you, well-respected repatriator. You've referred a parliamentary question, so I'm going to answer you in the law of prescribed terms and frameworks, I can't say anything right now any more than that, we're going to follow, or see this subject itself, so I'm going to answer you. As for credit institutions and protection of the rights of debtors, I think that we have talked a lot about this in both HS and the public, of course, that by adopting certain acts, HS reacted to any identified unconscious and similar actions of individual credit institutions and, accordingly, a certain set of measures were implemented. However, in any case, what should be said so many times when we talk about the debt problem that we cannot just focus on their part, in this way we protect the believers on the one hand, but we put additional obligations so that they do not come into some situation where you have also said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11560	Thank you, Vice President and Minister. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Here you go, dear representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11561	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, I request a recess to consult on further participation in the debate on this agenda point, given the fact that, on behalf of the Government, Minister Maric, who is also the vice president of the Croatian lottery Assembly, is on behalf of the government. So Croatia's lottery as a company decided to send a major blow to freedom of speech and political expression to the Republic of Croatia because it decided as a company rather than as a private person to sue one of the party's leaders for something he said in the election campaign. If the director of the company felt offended, defamed, that it was done to him harm it could have done as a private person and ok, it was the relationship of two private persons. When a state-owned company does so, so it makes a state whose head of the assembly is a minister then it represents a state-sponsored coup on freedom of speech and we need to stand up to it as we can. A colleague of the HDZ and you do so, do not sue but oppose because otherwise we will come to the point that every time he says something in a political struggle we will be exposed to charges, to state not private. Therefore, the minister can use the break to inform himself about what is going on, but it is an unprecedented scandal for the state to sue the opposition leader at the time for something he said in the election campaign. The company's money is being spent on lawyers, so it would be better if from the Croatian lottery to a children's home or something that is otherwise derived from gambling. So, Mr. Minister, keep your director in line, tell him if he feels defamed, let him sue as a private person, not as a firm. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11562	Okay, we'll have a break by 13 o'clock and 20 minutes. It's a 13, 10 o'clock. Please take your seats, we'll continue the debate. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING IN 13,20 HOURS]] I'm opening a club debate. The first one was registered for discussion by the Association of Representatives of the Homeland Movement, the Honorable Representative Davor Dretar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11564	Good afternoon, everyone. Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues, so these two laws concern not only all of us here but also all of our country's citizens each has a bank account most likely in one of the banks in Croatia. Some of us have these accounts at other locations. Those conservative in Switzerland or Germany, those creative in Cyprus or the Cayman Islands, but today it's not the topic of conversation. The laws we are discussing for the purpose of stabilising the internal financial market are primarily the Deposit Insurance Act and, of course, the resulting rise in consumer confidence. We don't see any problems in that. Short and clear in several lines there is therefore a fund run by the Deposit Insurance Agency. In this fund, all banks operating in Croatia must pay the amounts set out in this law in order to ensure the savings of all those who have accounts in the bank, in a bank that is located in front of a financial sink or ruin. I say the bank although the law cites a credit institution, but since the Croatian people listen to us, I believe it will be easier for them to understand it. The Agency therefore holds the funds collected in an open account with the CNB, there of course not only does these funds sit there but the agency has the right and invests in low risk assets, distribute them to reduce the risk of loss and let's say the very reasonable principle of old folk sayings, does not hold all the eggs in the same basket, and that's quite all right. This bill of course also sets out relations with the EU, so the funds already mentioned can also be borrowed from similar European agencies at certain interest rates to the European Central Bank. The Agency may use the funds collected to save the bank from financial collapse or national bankruptcy. The law of course obliges it to assess the amount of risk associated with such a procedure. But we're not going to do it now, or I'm not going to tell you all the provisions of these two laws here, but to say that kind of healthy human being. It is clear to all of us that the failure of one bank is an extremely unpleasant experience especially for that bank, but without a joke, such a thing seriously harms the entire financial situation of a country especially if the bank is large and well networked. This bill also discusses many more items on the organisation of the agency, the political independence of its director, which is a very convenient formulation, penalties for offenders, and all this is nice and correct, quality written. But allow me to return for a few moments in the distant past in the year shortly after the end of the Homeland War when the young state, the Croatian state has just learned to walk, here I will use several lines from the Croatian Banks Association report. I'll be talking about the bank's recovery by 2000. The lack of capital at the time of Croatia's independence was so great that the state had to take a series of interventions to keep the banking system going. The legacy of socialism that has economically collapsed and left behind almost an entire economy incapable of paying off debts, the collapse of the former state and the war in the former Yugoslavia have left too deep a mark in life and economy as well as in the balance sheets of banks. Moreover, the banks were deeply insolvent even before the decline of socialism, the collapse of the former state and affected Croatia. At that point, both the bank and the state found themselves facing a serious dilemma. Saving banks or letting them go to waste. In a similar way, we talk and talk 20 years later today. The first way, therefore, to save the bank removes the crisis on short notice, but it opens up a space of heavy political disputes because taxpayers are rightfully asking why we save their money there from someone's banks and some administrations that receive huge salaries. Another way in which the failure of a credit institution causes a serious and profound crisis and of course a panic that is difficult to assess the intensity. Back in the '90s, our financial system was as weak as financial illiteracy, unfortunately the same system has not increased much to date. At the same time, we remember that everyone was doing well with the bitter public reactions, and even today we haven't fully learned all the details of these processes. But if you scratch a little, then you can find various documents. So at his session on 15 April 2005, the Croatian Parliament discussed the State Review Report on the revision of conversion and privatisation. It was then noted that the report did not cover bank privatisation issues. The Croatian Parliament therefore requested a special report from the State Agency for the Insurance of Deposits and Rehabilitation of Banks delivered to the assembly on 2 September 2005. I only got that report half an hour ago, I was able to read it quickly, but the only thing I could see in a hurry was that in those years, we'd rescheduled a bank with $6.84 billion, and through sales revenues and a resulting dividend, we'd made a little less than 3.5 billion. So we lost a smooth 3 billion and 200 million kuna taxpayers to give the bank foreign property afterwards. Now, anyone who thinks with a healthy brain sees what the state has done here. The same thing unfortunately does not deviate from the truth today. And then our banks were saved from our money, sold to foreign owners, huge banking concerts that still operate in and out of Croatia today, to ordinary people unimaginable, profits. What money clearly shows the news from a few days ago that a bank was found guilty of disobeying the provisions of the Money Laundering and Financing Act, and without blinking, it paid a fine of as much as 33 million kuna. Another bill we're discussing here is the one about the forced liquidation of credit institutions. In difficult and long-term bankruptcy procedures, citizens always feel that they are being cut off because they think they are first at peace, so-called. Great players, state and privileged religious people, and in a large number of cases, they're right. So let's take a look at how this bill regulates so-called. payment orders. In the first row, employees' salaries have failed the bank, which is okay. They are followed by requests from the state budget, but what we particularly fell into our eyes are severances, severances, up to the amount prescribed by the collective agreement. It is clear to all of us that someone who, by his poor work or unconscious business, forced the bank to fail and brought himself under the provisions of this law at all, should not take home several hundred thousand or millions of kunas. In the second order are CNB's claims, so public contributions, claims already mentioned by the Deposit Insurance Agency. But let me ask at the very end, and where are you citizens, the ordinary people you've been saving in that bank for black days, or you little micro or medium-sized entrepreneurs who had a business account in that bank? Where are all you who have spent a hundred times being found with various tight interest rates, creative accounting methods and, of course, the money banks take from you, commissions without order and meaning? Where are you all fooled by the fine print at the bottom of the contract? Where are you all cheated on by false promises or by binding the principal to the Swiss franc? Where are you all who are barely alive today with the help of the minuses in your current account, but now they've cut it off or they'll just end you because you haven't received your salary in the last three months or you've got half your salary, or you have to be happy that you're getting something else every day because people are out of a job? There you are, my dear people, the ordinary Croatian coupe, here at the end of my speech, at the beginning of the column, at the bottom of the social ladder, in the fourth order of payment. As a result, the Homeland Movement will request amendments to the articles that regulate payment orders, and of course on all these laws, on both of these laws and their support, we will decide during the debate and, of course, during the second reading. So, I'll see you and I'll hear from you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11565	Next debate on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, distinguished representative Boris Lalovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11566	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Today, we have two laws that regulate one system, regulate the deposit insurance system and forced liquidation of credit institutions, i.e. this is one set of laws that actually prepares Croatia for the banking union. So these are actually laws where the banking union is going much faster than the EU is going into integration and monetary or monetary is, are integrated, how many, 19 countries have EURo, 7 not yet, this, and, and the banking union is actually going to create a single banking market and in a way that when one of the banks actually fails or comes into certain problems that there are unique standards on the EU market. And so we get to the deposit insurance system, and why is this law good? Because it protects, not only does it protect citizens' deposits if we know in our history not so long ago, the amounts secured were up to 100,000 kuna, and then in 2008, as the minister said, then the government when that crisis was in 2008. This increased to 400,000 kuna, and then to 2013 When the whole EU system actually started to work for deposit insurance, it was the same directive that, in all countries, it was actually equal to that in one country no longer, in one country less, that almost all the countries in the EU today amounted to EUR 100,000. And there is Croatia, with a positive contribution from these laws of the European Directive where it has actually forced financial institutions to secure savings of up to EUR 100,000, and there we have jumped from 400,000 kuna to 750,000 kuna, and this is the contribution where, in fact, those directives themselves gave additional security to Croatian citizens for ensuring these, ensuring their amounts. Also here to get in, as I actually asked, Art. 22. The premium on deposit insurance is defined whether we are aware all these years that banks are pressuring the government, eventually the Ministry of Finance, to reduce that part, to pay these premiums. It is said here that it is 0.08 a month and the minister himself said that this amount is about 5.4 billion kuna, which is more than actually set some standard in the EU, right. That's about 2.5%. The standard in the EU is somewhere when it is, it will be about 1%, which means that the current deposit insurance system in Croatia works well. We have more money collected if there were any disturbances on the market, and we see that a disturbance on the market happens overnight, that a disturbance on the market happens overnight like a covid and that no one has affected it that something happened, that it actually comes to you to have one closed system, let's remember how the borders closed, how any traffic of goods was closed, etc., capital traffic and overnight you happen that the entire financial system can remain frozen. And that's why this law is good and this law, not only this law and this one, this one that comes as a package, to stabilize the entire system, or to make that trust for deposit insurance, to show that there's no rush on banks, right. It seems to me that, that there was a report, the governor, that when it was at the beginning of Covid, that he said that the governor had said that there had been some kind of pressure on the banks for several days and even that course was sudden, but it was rapidly stabilising, but it was very fast, it was stabilizing, which means that still these laws were very helpful in stabilising such a market even though the situation, the situation in the banking sector could come, could come if the crisis actually stalled for a few years, could become questionable. However, what is important that yet our banking sector is highly capitalised over 20% is, 20% is capital so that what is actually mentioned here is that, that the CNB is going to launch forced liquidation if there is an excess or a lack of capital of 6.8 or 10% depending on which level of capital it is due to say that now double capital is in relation to banks compared to what the law says is. So there's no concern that any of the financial institutions and despite this Coronal crisis to Covid, despite the moratorium on bank loans somewhere, on loans to citizens of 50 billion kuna, the banking sector is stable. What's also very important here and say is payout deadlines, payout deadlines when some harmful event happens for the bank. It itself and is defined by law whether or not the bank had money at that time or not, if its share of the money fails, will now be paid parallelly through the DAB, and the name of the Croatian Deposit Insurance Agency is now being changed here. So unbound whether or not that bank can pay off is when it hits the bank or if it fails means the money is secured. So there's a parallel mechanism that's going to pay off that money. It is important here to say that they are now doing so within 15 days, and by 2024 and here they are precisely listed even in this law are listed in the article, Article 42 are listed, legally brought in that after 2024 the agency will pay, pay for the savings for the citizens within 7 days. It's very important that citizens know that at that point in the bank whether or not they'll get their money. It is only important to save if they have in that part that savings if they have more than EUR 100,000 that they still divide it into more banks because according to the institution, the financial institution is insurance is 100,000, 100,000 euros and even if you had that money, they had in the transaction account in the current account or whether they had it as a savings deposit. So both of those amounts are summed up, is if you have one part of the money in the transaction account, and on the savings you have another part of the money they're going to add it up to you. So you won't fail the money even if there was one part on the transaction or if it wasn't secured as deposit is. That's very important. Also, these other laws that we recently had are very important for stabilising the financial sector because most banks are actually owned by Italian or Austrian banks in Croatia. And what used to happen before? If a bank collapses in Austria, in Italy, it has been resolved that it was seen in a partial way, that it was seen in such a way that it was the only one to be recovered, and that everything from their actual branch office, and unfortunately in Croatia only their branches are actually withdrawing money, is it? However, this part not only of this part of the law, the banking union, why it is a good meal, because it rescheduls the entire institution, does not resuscitate at the state level. And that's good for Croatia. Why is it good? So if there is a problem with the banks in Italy, it cannot happen that the Italians withdraw all the money from the Croatian banks that are owned and go to resuscitate the Italian banks, or their queen, rather than resuscitate themselves at the level and then be a problem with Croatian savings, but are actually rescheduled to an entire institution, rather than on the country's own page. And that is why the banking union is one step forward in the overall financial stabilisation, and in fact these laws serve as an implementing measure. Regarding the Law on Forced Liquidation of Credit Institutions, this is what I actually asked the Minister, they will no longer go according to that bankruptcy law, as the minister himself said for 14 years there was a bankruptcy and simply couldn't have been those who should have come, not only those who had deposits but could not have reached their own money for 14 years and therefore it is good to force the liquidation to end within what the Minister said. And it actually gives one security and stability in the entire financial sector that both these liquidations of banks or when they come, that some money is provided to these citizens if there is enough money in that liquidation mass to resuscitate all these others above these 100,000 euros that they actually know that they will be able to win within 3 years, they will get their money, yes. So I think it's actually in that part of the law, which, I read it, is quite similar to this bankruptcy law, and it's actually more of a law from the Ministry of Justice than the Ministry of Finance is, since it's quite legally defined how this liquidation, who are the liquidators, is actually implemented properly and, in a proper way, the provisions of the bankruptcy law in it are applied, so that, as far as the legal profession is concerned, they are so professional about these implementation procedures, these and the total amount of food. So regarding both of these laws, I say this law appears in the forced liquidation for the first time in Croatia's legal gain and I think it will contribute to the overall strengthening of the legal property of the Republic of Croatia in the area of banking, banking union, yes. I thank you, the SDP Club will support these two laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11567	The next debate is on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, distinguished representative Marin Mandaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11568	Good afternoon, everyone. I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow MPs, fellow MPs, ministers, Deputy Prime Minister, together with the co-worker, here are from the opening presentation of the motionors but also through the debate by clubs, more or less everything about the laws has been crystallized. More or less I wanted to say we've already heard, but here's what I'm going to use my time to further underline some things that seemed important to me. As far as the Deposit Insurance System Act is concerned, it is said that we already have a law that regulates this area that is more than and more in line with EU directives, but of course when we talk about the issue of deposit insurance systems it is important to say that it has a major impact on the level of legal certainty in the Republic of Croatia. There has been a lot of talk about it in this home and in previous councils and years, certainly this law is an improved law I will say, raising somehow the level of legal certainty in Croatia. Of course, it contributes to the preservation of citizens' trust, as well as business entities in our legal and financial system and in the stability of the financial system, and of course to the stability of the entire economy of the Republic of Croatia. It is important to note that the adoption of this law will ensure equal treatment of depositors in the Republic of Croatia to have the same treatment as depositors across the EU, this is the novelty of this law and certainly is something to welcome. The citizens must know, I believe they know, but they never mention it too much again, and even here through the debate managed to figure out that maybe it's not clear to all those who have deposits in the banks whether it was in savings accounts, whether on their own on current, the jury can be certain for those of their 100,000 euros, and so on the remark of Mr. Dretar who spoke on behalf of the Homeland Movement Club that in the last place a small man is the one who makes it difficult to separate from his salary to save himself something, so that they are in the back row if there were problems with the banks. No, they are not in the back row exactly the Law on the Deposit Insurance System is guaranteed that they are practically past all rows immediately as we have managed to hear through 15 days their funds have been paid off, and by 2024 that deadline will also be reduced and that is good. It is also new to this law that explicitly states that the funds for this insurance fund exclusively have the resources to collect on the burden of financial institutions, banks, not on the burden of taxpayers of our budgets as it may have been there in the 1990s the state has all been able to recover and bad policies of banking management, poor policies perhaps foreign owners. It is hereby decided that banks themselves have to provide insurance premiums for such adverse events. We also heard that the proposed Law on the Restitution of Credit Institutions of the CNB has taken over part of the agency that now changes its name, gets a little different powers and I believe that it will all work in the future as it is in this period so that there will be no earthquakes or problems on our financial market. And that is why the HDZ Club will, of course, support this law because it aims to anticipate as much as possible those unpleasant situations, to prevent them and, of course, to preserve the stability of the financial system. As for the Law on Forced Liquidation of Credit Institutions, and so far we have had a law dealing with this problem, we have heard it was a bankruptcy law, but in practice it proved to be deficient when it was to be applied to credit institutions that it was nevertheless credit institutions because of its specificity and its assets that needed long to be marketed, that cash was lost in time, yet it was to go to a different legal solution. It's similar to the bankruptcy law, but it's only suitable for banks. Of course, it's a matter of trustee and trustee in banks. We've heard that the maximum liquidation time will be reduced to three years, which is certainly to greet these 14, 15 how many experiences have been experienced so far with bankruptcys and bank recoverys. The time will be shortened, except that the duration of the bankruptcy process will be reduced to one higher level by the control of the failure of the credit institution from the market, which will again contribute to the reduction of risk and to the reduction of the spill-over of negative effects on financial markets. And when we talk about these potential negative effects, let's just remind ourselves that in 2007, in 2008, the financial crisis actually came from the financial markets because of the acrobatics, I'm going to say, which was carried out by credit institutions, and then it went well on to the entire economy, to the global economy, and it took us six, seven years to get out of that recession. So any law that goes in the direction of preventing such negative influences should be welcomed by spilling negative influences on economies. Since financial institutions are still so tied up in Croatia not only economically but also in wider social processes, it only makes it important and speaks about how important they are and how much attention should be given to them legally. They are also development creditors, they are creditors and citizens, they are also a place where people and our business entities keep their assets, where various public authorities keep their assets and it is very important that the level of trust in the financial system and in financial institutions does not come under investigation because if they come under investigation trust in financial institutions they will not be able to perform their primary function. Of course, depositors won't deposit money, they won't give the bank money to keep, banks will, of course, automatically reduce... credit potential, less will be able to invest, and we know that the level of availability of credit greatly affects any economic development, and we need it now and more than ever. Therefore, the HDZ Club will also support this legislative proposal because it increases the level of legal certainty, increases the level of trust in the financial system, reduces risks, reduces potential spillovers of negative effects on both financial markets and the economy as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11569	Following an individual debate, the first came the Honorable Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11570	Thank you. As I said in the replica, and now a colleague before me mentioned legal certainty in the Republic of Croatia on behalf of the HDZ Club. I will mention once again in 2017, in the 7th month, the minister knows about this, the Law on the Vulnerability of the Treaty on Loans with International Marks in the Republic of Croatia with the unauthorized credentials so-called. Lex Scibola. These are the damages that have been done by these, let's say, savings-credit bank institutions, Raiffeisen shred-credit cooperatives that have led people to the edge, on the edge, it's literally impossible to repay that loan, but that's one of the key problems is that no law in the Republic of Croatia is being brought into the interest of a man, not a single bank would have 5 billion without interest, without these things being, yes, and not taxed. Banks in the Republic of Croatia are not taxed, 500 fees, commissions, who knows what they don't. But there's another problem here. In 2017, the Assembly unanimously reached a unanimous decision on the integrity of these loans, 3.g. It's over. It was a time when HDZ created a majority with HNS and SDSS and each one, as Milan Bandic said about these people, passed the law. What's with the law? You know what happened? People have sued on the basis of what we as HS have brought unanimously, and now they're in the process, judgments against these people, people where their expenses have now been cut by half a million kuna. Why? Because our people are courting exclusively European directives, as certain judges seem to me to be Rodin or somehow called, exclusively by a judge of justice who was well involved, who was even in the conflict of interest, as far as I have information, in some courts, it's losing it. So if the Hungarians, if the Hungarians said, Hungary, those institutions can't work there, not only them, but Austria, where they come from, has banned them from doing so. For example, on the island of Rab, in other parts of the literally and savings-credited cooperatives that are out there, who have been illegally working, which interest rates, it is interest, simply leaving those people disbursed and will never be able to repay the loan in that way and no one stands in their protection except for this assembly that brought it unanimously. Why is it that the Government of the Republic does not respect me, I would like to hear the Honorable Minister, why does the government not respect the law that we have passed unanimously? There is no one above the HS on earth, and for the believers there is only God above the assembly. As far as Earth's life is concerned, the Assembly is a unanimous decision. Why don't you ministers respect that? Where's the state of law? Why are ordinary people still charged with long lawsuits, with the justice of these ribbons, and that'll be on them? It's very important for me to point out here. It's very important to me if you call me people, even unfortunately many have done suicide is impossible to repay those loans. It's a classic interest rate, so it wasn't in slavery, so it wasn't for farming time, so it wasn't when Francis Tahi was towards the peasant. These people are in an impossible situation, but we see other countries, so where do these savings-credit cooperatives come from to simply be banned, shut down, their state's attorneys are chasing them as interest rates, but in Croatia they are allowed to do so. So I call once again on what my HDZ colleague just said, trust in justice, justice, equality of everyone, in institutions, not to respect all institutions. The Croatian government does not respect the law it proposed and gave HS so-called. Lex Scybola to disrespect him, not to invite him completely, we unanimously brought him still working, who pays them, I don't know, at the expense of Austrian savings-credit associations against the interests of the Croatian little man who is literally a slave. Why Minister, can you answer that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11571	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Grozdana Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11572	Dear Vice President, the Honorable Minister with an associate. Here, this is part of the law which is very much restoring and trust in systems, and also in trust in our own, for the very reason that the harmonisation of some laws achieves much greater legal certainty for our citizens and businesses. When we talk about the deposit insurance system, we know that this law has existed so far, and it was updated in 2015. However, what will be achieved with this law is precisely that the current State Agency for Bank Rehabilitation is losing some power, but some are getting further. It is very important to say that this state agency has played a significant role so far. In the current time, when you look at the situation at the end of 2019. Then out of the total of 339.4 billion kuna deposits in all credit institutions, as many as 59% of these secured deposits are secured, 201.3 billion kuna of which 181 billion secured deposits refer to natural persons, 18.5 billion to companies, 1.8 to non-profit billion to non-profit organisations, and about 34.1 million to local and regional self-government units. So what will now happen is that what I and the replica point out is that the entire insurance system cannot be financed on the burden of taxpayers but exclusively on the burden of credit institutions. And this will be done exactly in a way that through the type of fund, so two types of underlying fund and an additional deposit insurance fund where the funds are accumulated, thus achieving that balance and security of all deposits in total. So, the underlying fund will have 1% of the total amount of the secured deposits of all credit institutions, and in addition, it would be 1.5% with that in this underlying fund, so if that level decreases, it will be complemented by an additional fund. As far as the Force Liquidation Act itself is concerned, 20 banks and 3 housing savings banks and the entire banking system are now operating in the Republic of Croatia and has 70% of the total activity, making up 70% of the entire financial system, which is an extremely large, large power. We have already had EUR 100,000 built-in per client, therefore the amount secured, but this is how it is achieved as large and urgent as possible by the believer. In the current laws, the deadline for the start of the compensation has also been 15 days, until 2023 it is also 15 days, and since 1.1.2024 it is 7 days. Therefore, these laws reduce the deadlines for the start of payment of any such compensation which also contributes to restoring trust or having confidence in the financial system and that the entire system or potential liquidations do not last as far as 15 to 20 years, rather than that these liquidations go within as short a period as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11573	There's a replica, Honorable Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11574	My colleagues in the last term, you were a member of the Committee on Finance, I think, or the president, even we here in the assembly, as you did on the Committee on Finance have accepted the so-called proposal. The law of lex Scybol unanimously and this law does not apply in reality. I ask the minister why the law you supported on the board, which the government has proposed, is here, which is why it is not respected and continues to protect foreign savings credit cooperatives who illegally terrorise our people. What do you say we obey that law that we passed unanimously so-called. Lex Skibola or no triba, the minister won't answer. I'm interested in your, what, precisely because you were even president of the Committee of Finance, if I'm not mistaken, tell me your position to respect the executive authority and the judiciary's decision to the unanimous Croatian Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11575	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11576	Well, this government respects the laws it makes. What I said and now in the Republic of Croatia there are 20 banks and 3 housing savings banks, savings credit cooperatives have not received the authority of the CNB, they have done so in one way illegally. Therefore, in that part of it, it is necessary to look at it from the point of view of who was actually authorised to monitor it and how it was possible at all to control or sanction, possibly, everything that was not done by the rules and by the law as it was to be done.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11577	Final debate on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, and the esteemed representative of Martina Grman Kizivat.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11578	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. The respected ministers with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues are before us two draft laws, the Proposal for a Deposit Insurance System Act and the Proposal for a Law on Forced Liquidation of Credit Institutions. These bill proposals are a alignment with EU legislation, and as such, the SDP club will support them. These bill proposals are, in fact, closely connected or dependent on each other. The regulation of one law regulates a part of the other law. Regulation of the Deposit Insurance System Act is a regulation of the right and procedures, governing the rights and procedures relating to the establishment, operation and financing of the deposit insurance system in the Republic of Croatia. I must stress that by taking effect this law, all provisions of the Deposit Insurance Act and the Law on the State Agency for the Insurance of Deposits and Rehabilitation of Banks shall cease to apply. We are witnesses in the past that credit institutions have failed and everything has happened. This law should allow for more detail on deposit insurance, limits as well as conditions for obtaining insurance rights, an amount of 100,000 euros in value in Croatian kunas is provided. The bill also harmonizes the source of funding towards the EU acquis in a way that explicitly states that the deposit insurance system cannot be financed on the burden of taxpayers but exclusively on the burden of credit institutions. Credit institutions shall pay minimum initial capital at the establishment and pay it to the agency of 0.3%. The Agency shall manage the deposit insurance system, the agency shall also manage the entire deposit insurance fund consisting of basic and additional deposit insurance. Taxation on how the Agency works, has a statute that brings the Supervisory Board, has a director but I must stress that all persons are real experts in this area is not enough to write that a person must not be active in politics. In my view, we should set out in more detail the conditions that a person must have for the performance of such a duty, as well as for members of the Supervisory Board. If we don't make an account of it, we can expect a possible entanglement on the party line as we have so far and then we have a new law and an old way of working. I stress that these persons are appointed with the consent of the Government, only one goes to the proposal of credit institutions. Such traps may also exist in the proposal for a law on forced liquidation of credit institutions. So I warn you once again, it is important to stress that for such jobs it must be professional, not a similar frame. Today the banking sector is doing as a colleague has already said, based on our entire economy. In Croatia, 20 banks and three savings banks are operating, and the banking system accounts for 70% of the entire financial system. The liquidation or bankruptcy of credit institutions has so far been carried out under the applicable Banking Act, if we know that the business of credit institutions differs in the business of companies. This new bill would make it more realistic to liquidate institutions if it did, along the way, to comply with eu directives. Coming to the liquidation of society must quickly respond, allow for the short-term arrival of the financial resources that societies have in such institutions, so the more urgent the intention of the creditors. In the past, we have witnessed a series of bank recoverys for which the state has invested huge money and are the same after the recovery privatized. Only in the period 1995 to 2000 were the direct recoverys of six banks, the recovery cost about 13 billion kuna or 36.3 billion by 2018, according to some information. The fact is that less revenue has been made than has been invested in recovery. Therefore, this law today lays down the liquidation procedure, the participants and their rights and obligations. What we need to make sure that the liquidation is just a necessary step is all in the previous steps to prevent it from happening. The proposal for liquidation can only be submitted by the CNB to an exceptional liquidator, all the liquidation procedures are considered urgent and it is on the CNB itself to carry out all the control steps so that the liquidation does not occur. In this way, the financial system as well as our economy is closely related to the banking sector is safeguarded. I stress, the most important thing is to preserve the economic system in these situations, as well as to protect the finances of our natural persons, otherwise Croatia can also pass thousands of laws if they are not implemented by them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11579	Here's the final minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11580	Thank you very much. Anyway, here's the ladies and gentlemen of the council in the end to just thank you for the debate. As you have noticed, these are two laws which are not only related to the transposition of the Directives, but provide certain additional mechanisms and safeguards, in particular financial stability and consumers themselves, and our citizens. In addition to these two laws, we hope to prepare them immediately for the government's procedure after tomorrow's first reading vote so that together with the already two existing laws that are in the parliamentary procedure, the Law on Credit Institutions and on the recovery of credit institutions I hope in the package, it will be a proposal for the chairman of the Assembly Committee on Finance in the Pact to discuss them there at the end of November or early December, and that we can implement this whole legislative framework in our legal order. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11581	There's a replica of a respected representative of Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11582	Thank you very much. Just an additional one, perhaps a minister. Here in Art. 15. says that one percent of the funds are collected into this basic fund and then stopped, and then this additional fund opens 1.5% and that's 2.5% in total. Now we're somewhere at 2.5%, so what happens if we get over there 2.5% do they stop collecting funds or how does it work? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11583	Thank you very much. What I said at the end of the year according to our calculations and according to our assumptions... we've just put in a model somewhere around 2.7 we're going to end a year, so that's above this legal framework and that would de facto mean that it's then suspended until these ratios fall between these laws of the prescribed frameworks, which means de facto, I'm going to say God forbid that there's some extra drop in the bank in order to activate deposit insurance if that total limit falls below 2.5% then the banks are obliged to participate in accordance with market shares of course and parameters to fill that fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11584	Thank you. Here's what we've exhausted the debate with. I'm closing the debate, and we'll vote when the conditions are met. And I declare a break until 3:00. MEETING AT 14:07 A.M.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11628	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we continue to work, it is up to: - Interpletion on the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in connection with the projects of the wind power plant Krš-Pajene. The applicants shall be 20 representatives in HS on the basis of Article 1(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013. 86. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the The Rules of Procedure of HS. The provisions of Article 2 shall apply in the event of a discussion of this act. 145 to 151. Rules of Procedure. The government filed a report. First, I will ask the applicant's representative to further explain the proposal. On behalf of the applicant, this will be done by MP Karolina Vidovic Kristo, but before that comes fellow Bulj, please welcome colleague Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11629	Thank you very much, President. On behalf of the MOST Club, I demand a 10-minute break to point out once again what damage Minister Ćorić has done and put nail into the energy independence coffin. He showed on Krš-Padjane that the procedure is not respected, that the interests of the Republic of Croatia protected by the Most Independent Lists are not respected if we need to know that MOST independent lists, our experts in the ministry, did not allow the looting of Croatian people through renewable sources of so-called. wind power plants. Minister Ćoric, the minister of threat, environment and energy, and in this case he was added to the threat of the economy. The man who signed this without an assessment of the environmental impact study, the man who self-initiatedly did it, the man who allowed the robbery of people in these areas, not only was landscape damaged, and what was helped by his coalition partner SDSS, HNS, Vrdoljak, who proposed it to the respected ministers, but all in Croatia was the way of making decisions where the minister was a respected gentleman at the club in Slovenia 9 at the head of Janaf. And we can't just attach everything to Minister Coric's responsibility. Where is the responsibility of Andrej Plenkovic here? That's what MOST, the Ministry's MOST experts warned him about at the time. One of the key reasons MOST did not respond as a partner because it did not allow robbery, robbery and energy, alienation of Croatian national interests. [[Agreement: Thank you, colleague Bulj]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11630	The apartment will be approved. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, my colleague, Boric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11631	Thank you very much, Mr. President. 238. My colleague Bulj, of course again of all insults and I would say a lot of hard words no, but as far as credibility is concerned, we will only remind him that in the same way they assured us that arbitration between INA MOL and the Republic of Croatia will also end in the way they speak today, not and in the end, we know how it ended, MOST has brought down his government, and we all look together again here in a way that convinces us again of their false interpretations.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11632	Comrade Boris, you are being warned because you have misused the violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here's your buddy, Grmo.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11633	Your Honor, the officer has been injured. 238. counterpart Boric, HDZ president no longer Tomislav Karamarko, Andrej Plenkovic claimed he should not be released from arbitration. The furniture has changed, you change the board, you change the board of your colleagues, Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11634	Comrade Thunder, you're being warned as well. Comrade Bull, are you picking up? Here you go. Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11635	Thank you very much. He's been injured. 238. A fellow Boric consistently violates the Rules of Procedure by insulting parliamentary officials, and he, whose policy supported INA giants to take over the MOL, a small company, to take over and lose the management rights although MOL is not the majority owner because of carrying bags from your fellow sitting here, bags of money to rob In order for INA to give up, you broke up, you broke up. [[Intruder: colleague, colleague Bulj, please]] The energy system. [[Intruder: colleague Bulj...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11636	...college Bulj, you get a warning and I'd like to invite my colleagues and colleagues not to hurt the Rules of Procedure by requesting a breach of the Rules of Procedure and when it's not and replicating it. So, please be careful, we already have three warnings. Comrade Maria Jelkovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11637	Thank you very much. Your Honor, my colleague Bulj has now been injured by an officer. 238. The Rules of Procedure because he hurt our club president, Mr. Bacic, by falsely making false claims and also in his statement, injured the minister, and forgets that their minister asked that 5 million kuna be paid for the establishment of an ethical bank in the core capital He forgot that. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]] And then he brought [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]] A solution that refuses to... [[Intruder: colleagues Jelkovac]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11638	...and this is the same now, and this has now become a replica. I didn't recognize a colleague of Bačić in the statements of his colleagues, Bulja, so I don't know why you recognized it, and you get a warning. Here you go, comrade Grumoja, you'll get a second warning now, probably if... All right, respond. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11639	Your Honor, I must react. Namely, the HDZ representative presented the charges brought by one suspect in this affair, Mr. Bašić, to whom HDZ gave the green light for this project at the expense of a man who was no longer a member of the Most, but who certainly performed his post as minister fairly. This is scandalous that you colleagues of Jelkovac represent Mr. Bashic's defense. here in HS. [[Employer: A colleague of Grumo's]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11640	So now this is the second warning. That's a second warning, a third warning means you won't be able to speak anymore today, that's clear to you, so you have two warnings. Is anyone else picking up for a break? If not, we'll have a break by 15 hours and 20 minutes. And I ask you, through discussions, and you have club discussions, individual debates, replicas, try to articulate your own views. Thank you. It's 3:08 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11641	Ladies and gentlemen, it is immediately necessary to conclude that by refusing to discuss possible illegalities in the project of the windman Krš-Pajene, and to assume that the ruling majority in this house will follow the government, the ruling majority confirmed the sad fact that the entire Croatian public knows, and the cancer of corruption has spread so much that it is more intolerable. The cancer on Croatian tissue is the ruling structure made up of HDZ and SDP and their apprentices. And the windman Krš-Pade was a visual example of corruption started in 2013 by SDP and HNS, and continued by Plenkovic's HDZ and Pupovci's SDSS. But let's move in order to dismember this mega affair. The development of electricity production through wind power plants gets its momentum in the late 1990s when developed countries accept the fact that they need environmental protection. As we know, wind power plants are completely ecologically clean, and in the meantime they are cost-effective in the long run because as we know, dear God does not send us bills for the wind. Since at the beginning of this momentum the construction and production of these wind power plants was very expensive and investment-free was less than any of the countries that passed the laws on the promotion of electricity production on the basis of renewable sources also brought legal solutions to the investors in order to motivate them to invest in a segment of renewable energy sources. In 2007, Croatia also passed laws on renewable energy sources that were welcomed by international investors because they provided a good incentive price of 71 June per kW hour. However, both in the economy and in other social segments of the ruling structure of the deep state, it is always in laws or sublaws to install provisions that normal investors refuse and favour the chosen ones as a rule of the dubious and non-transparent ones. Indeed, the findings of Cardinal Bozanić 20 years ago in the Krš-Paden case have been fully confirmed because this is really about the sin of the structure. In 2007 the price in Croatia, Germany, France, Portugal was very high because investment costs were high. At that time, a wind generator was an average of 50 meters with an extremely small rotor diameter. Meanwhile, technology has made huge steps, and already in 2010 and 2011, large wind generators have come into the market twice as high with twice the diameter of the rotor and with far more sophisticated technology. Accordingly, the results of the production were also threefold higher with initial installations, and the investment costs halved and even tripled. When the incentive price was established in 2007 at 71 June, the power of one wind generator was below 1 MW, while wind generators with 3, 4 or 5 MW were on the market. As a result of this technological upheaval, which went to the benefit of consumers, as well as investors from almost all countries starting in 2013 began to reduce wind prices. Some EU members, for example, Italy, Spain and Poland in 2014 have retrograded incentives. This means the investors who had valid contracts with the agencies there were reduced by an incentive price guaranteed contract. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Spain has completely abolished the encouraging prices that has been done by the vast majority of other EU members. Here I will quote the president of Wind Europe Giles Dickson's board of directors, he was in 2017 after participating in a competition in Spain in which Spain agreed to build a wind farm of 3,000 MW and at a price of 4.3 cents per kW, which is about 32 June, which is what he found next. As tenders show onshore wind power plants are the most favourable source for organic clean electricity production, key for investors to offer as low a price as possible, legal certainty for long-term planning. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the key to the problem. In Croatia, laws and rules are untrustworthy and are so constructed that these rules always need to be confirmed by someone. This is a key reason why Croatia is avoided by institutional large investors who operate cautiously, but whose expectations for profit for each country are more than desirable. In Croatia, unfortunately, investors who know how to operate in a semi-legal state or peopleally hunt in a blurry state can do business, while Krš-Pađene is a visual copy of the situation. Here, the chronology of this abnormal, brutal corruption. On 31 December, it means the Old Year 2013. The state agency of HER issues solutions, and CROTE signs a contract for Krš-Padene. In the government's explanation of this by Mr Plenkovic, in the government's explanation of the refusal of this interpretation, it was undoubtedly concluded that on the day of the signing of the contract with HROTE there was no building permit and therefore HER was not allowed to issue a decision on the status of the privileged producer, nor was HROTE allowed to sign an electricity buy-in contract. Furthermore, according to the rules that were still established in 2007, and those rules were well imagined, the investor was obliged to attach a bank guarantee to which the Croatian state received certainty that the project would be built since it was a high amount in this case over EUR 10 million, the CEMP company was unable to provide that guarantee. And what's going on? The government first amends the rules and extends the deadline for the delivery of guarantees to fully abolish the obligation to supply the bank guarantee. Here, the government is changing the rules and laws for one individual, and all to the detriment of Croatians and the Croatian state, and without cohesion, it violates its own laws while the projects from the wind-energy segment that satisfy the conditions had no opportunity to consume legal law and enter into a contract with HROTE. This is proof of why there are no foreign investment and healthy entrepreneurship initiatives in Croatia. Because how is it possible to give an incentive price of 71 June in the Old Year? I have to explain here that 78 limes mentioned in the interpretation of the interpretation is today's price due to the adjustment to the annual inflation rate. The responsible officials who signed those decisions the day before the entry into force of a more favourable price, not wanting to wait one day, are not illiterate and can hardly count, and Croatia was already a member of the EU at that time, so through various reports they knew that encouraging prices across Europe were shrinking massively. If a person does such obvious failures, he is either commercially unaccountable or has received bribes. And where's DORH and where's the police? Please add that the agreed commitments by the government are prolonged and eventually fully abolished, which seems to be direct damage to Croatian taxpayers because if the bank guarantee obligation remained as defined by the contract, the contract would have to be terminated in 2014 because the investor failed to fulfil the contractual obligations. The investor could then conclude a new contract, but then with a price of 53 June which was in force in 2014. Meanwhile, the government is changing. The Minister of Environment becomes Slaven Dobrović and, at the request of an investor who wants to change the building permit, determines the obligation to make a study or assess the impact on the environment of the requested building permit. However, an investor in a dubious way is not used to transparency and does not want to carry out the ministry's mandate. 2017 The minister becomes Tomislav Coric who, without any rational reason, abolishes his predecessor's solution. The fairy tale of the Allah's consent of the DORH to sue Croatia for damages is not a story for small children but a lullaby for little babies. A company that apparently made a criminal deal in any way could have no chance in any court. Minister Ćoric was obliged to protect the property and assets of the Croatian state, report unequivocal crime in this project, and order the competent agencies to terminate the contract. But Plenkovic's Minister Ćoric is doing exactly the opposite. I refer here to cases from Italy and Spain where existing contracts have changed because they have been to the detriment of the citizens of those countries and this is the responsible behaviour of the authorities where the rule of law works. Investor for Krsh-Paden, CMP within 4 years. He didn't do his duty and didn't build a wind farm. It is clear to everyone that the postponement of the investment is a damage to the local community and to the Croatian state budget. Although the investor in 2018 has not yet built the windscreen of HERA and HROTE's competent agencies under Tomislav Ćoric's authority to renew the contract rather than break it, it should have been broken long ago. This is a huge scandal because 2018. when, as we have said, in Spain the price per kilowatt of 32 June, the gentlemen of Plenkovic's government give to that investor, I repeat, to a dubious investor who has no reference in this segment, gives him 78 lip per kilowatt, almost twice the price since then, according to Croatian law, the price of 42 June. It should be noted here that the investor i.e. The owner of the CMP, Milenko Bašić, deals with the car trade. Of course he does not operate in other EU members, but he has strong business activities in Republika Srpska and the Republic of Serbia. Despite the fact that he has a contract with the state, the CMP investor is unable to organise the investment financially, and after nearly 6 years. address the state development bank HBOR and seek credit for the construction of windmen and this is the biggest scandal of this project. The HABOR Supervisory Board initially asks that the investor organises other banks and here it is clear that the investor's profile is of a provincial character, and wind park projects are for serious large companies that have appropriate references and international contacts. Despite all these facts, the HABOR still approves this loan of EUR 80 million and EUR 600 million respectively. It should be determined here that the investor probably didn't get any other credit. Given the wind power plant development crisis in Europe, wind generators themselves provide credits for the purchase of their devices. This is to assume that HABOR's credit has been funded as a whole investment, and its own capital was only for the development of the project, for the payment of various permits and studies, and for various corruption commissions to politicians and other officials. Because it's clear here that a loan for the development of this project should have come from that country from which the winds came. If it's Siemens, then it's Germany, if it's Westas, then it's Denmark. Because as we know, national development banks are financing exports, and the HABOR is unfortunately financing corruption in this case. 600 million kunas financed by this wind farm, these 600 million kunas were to be used for branding and producing Istrian truffles, Slavonian cuisine, Dalmatian olive oil, liquefied skipper, IT startups in Osijek, etc. Does anyone in this high house or in the Croatian public think that a 600 million kuna loan is possible without the consent of Andrej Plenkovic? That's what no one thinks. Of course he approved it. And it was carried out by consiliers of a deep-seated ruling state in Croatia, Zdravko Maric, minister of gold rolls he received from Ivica Todorovic, and he even put it in his property card, very nice of him. German experts in the area of renewable energy sources that I have consulted on this issue, according to publicly available information, have estimated that this project's income is 14 years old. 631 million, 104 thousand and 651 EUR, and if the price provided by law was applied and the logical revenue would be 339 million, 825 thousand and 581 EUR. The amount for which the Croats were damaged in 14 years. It will be 291 million, 279 thousand and 70 EUR, or cca 2 billion and 200 million kuna. Based on the arguments I presented, it can undoubtedly be concluded that the original contract itself and all other legal actions were a conscious, deliberate and systematic advantage to the investor and damage to the Croatian State. This contract, given that it was created in a criminal manner, must be terminated because, as we know, any legal action created on the basis of a criminal act is invalid. All in this series by HNS's competent minister Vrdoljak, HDZ Minister Ćoric, HDZ Minister Maric and the heads of the HERA, HROTE, HABOR, Deputy Prime Minister Plenkovic must answer before the law. The scandal message is next, in Croatia laws that are very often consistent with European norms are not necessarily bad, but are not implemented. Great players in the production of renewable energy sources would invest Croatia, it would be a big leap for the Croatian economy, this would boost GDP growth and employment. However, these institutional investors who are used to the rule of law and business ethics do not respond to Plenkovic and the family because their understanding of rights is not European but Yugoslav, and their right functions according to the principle of selectivity and bargaining for elected ones and does not know equality before the law. Plenkovic's world is Tedeschi and, as we can see, Miljenko Bašić owns the CEMP company. The government's argument of refusing to interpret is literally a signed recognition of the government's crime in this project, but thus a message to Croatian citizens, that they can do whatever they want as a political elite in Croatia. But here I will remind them of that people’s “You can do whatever you want, but you will not do as long as you want. ” As I quoted Mr Dickinson as saying in the introduction, "The Investor wants the security of planning" in the translation, the investor wants to know what rights and obligations he has and must be sure that he can do so without any interventions and can achieve them. But on the project of Windmill Krš-Padene, we see that the ruling in Croatia does not have measures in the shameless wealth and poverty of Croatian citizens. But when you have in the justice of JNA lawyer Sheparovic, scandalous Turudics and Sese and DORH, who acts as if the government's secretariat, not an independent body, then the results are exactly what they are in this case. Instead of 749 megawatts, Croatia could have 3,000 megawatts in operation because dear God has given us a land of 1200km of seashore where the entire hinterland is ideal for wind power plants, and the production of electricity from the VE is a product of the future. Power distributors know that large corporations such as Amazon or Google condition the purchase of electricity if the distributor proves that it is from environmental clean sources. In a transmitted sense in Drnis, the wind blows, the current goes to Munich, and the euros come to Croatia, and Propos Munich, the city council there, made a mandatory decision that total electricity consumption for Munich and the surrounding area by 2025 must come from environmentally clean sources. Far from that goal, they need sources where they will buy environmentally clean electricity. Croatia is an integral part of the European Energy Network and the transport of electricity from Drniš is much simpler and cheaper than German Rostok. Croatia has potential and can be successful, but only under the only condition that the rule of law will curb savage corruption. It's absurd that the government refuses to interpret the i.e. refuses to give us all the documentation in this case because if there's nothing to hide why he refuses? I appeal to all of you fellow MPs in this House, regardless of party and ideologicality, to support this interpretation so that this case becomes enlightened. Croatian Constitution in Art. 1. It is defined that people exercise power through their representatives, and parliamentary representatives are representatives of the people, the government is only an executive and is obliged to account and act transparently. My colleagues and colleagues, this is an opportunity to rise above the narrow parties' views and be determined to say enough to corruption and start restoring the credibility of Croatian state institutions. Accepting this interpretation is a political civilization imperative.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11642	We've got a few replicas, we're going in a row first on our colleague Zekanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11643	Dear colleagues Vidović Kristo, I must first thank you for putting this topic in focus and here you have the full support of the Croatian Sovereigns club. As you all know, we've all signed this interpretation that you've initiated. I'd like to supplement here a little bit, it's about the WE as an ecological source of energy, but it's also questionable because they're creating very big landscape damage that's not being talked about. In addition to the landscape damage they are highly harmful to ornitofauna, or many birds and bird species living in the area, it is one aspect that I would like to talk about here, with the same note that the contract concluded for the Vetrok Krš-Paden that similar contracts were concluded for most other wind parks in Croatia, so this is only the biggest contract that was concluded on this topic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11644	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11645	Thank you, colleague Zekanovic. Here I can return the words of praise for signing this interpretation, there were colleagues and Bridge and your club representatives, but also many other colleagues in HS who were willing to sign. We already had a 16+ demand here to 20 signatures, so we handed it over. I know that it is the interest of many of us in this High House to put things in order in Croatia, and I include those parliamentary representatives who may be under the pressure of the ruling elites. What you said about ecology, this interpretation is primarily aimed at lighting corruption within the Croatian government and harmful contracts for Croatia and Croatian citizens. All these other questions are also important. I must mention here that it is not only our obligation as a Croatian Parliament, but above all it is the obligation of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to always bear in mind that it suppresses and protects Croatia from corruption, not to carry it out itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11646	Thank you. Another replica of my colleague, Tušek, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11647	Thank you very much. Dear Mrs. Kristo, I listened very carefully to your debate, and I can even say that at the beginning I was surprised by the tone and arguments that I thought that in the finale of your debate you would spread out and out, but when I saw the aggression with which you ended up, when I saw actually the focus of your entire debate, I realized that you weren't really interested in the facts of this whole project because you didn't even bring them up anymore. First of all, you are interested in dealing with HDZ, the Government of Andrej Plenkovic, and you are not interested in the truth, because if you were interested in the truth then you would focus more on 2012, 2013 when you made absolutely all the capital decisions that were legally binding today and related to the Krš-Padene project. The only deep state I see is actually the rope between the Homeland Movement and incumbent President Zoran Milanovic, who is absolutely coming out of the context of this process, which is crucial in everything that has been happening around the Krš-Padjene project.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11648	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11649	Here, you're doing just as well, you said that by listening to the arguments, you realized that it was well argued, but later you moved on to your arbitrary interpretation and the conclusion that was in my head. Don't worry about it. Stick to simple arguments, they're very clear, they're precise, they're evidence and more confirmed by your party president and government. So don't even deal with trivial things like some kind of possible personal connection or animosity, stick to the law, gentlemen. Only the rule of law can get Croatia out of the mire in which we have been brought by political elites for the past 20 years and change. It's just my mission, and I'm not a member of any party, by the way.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11650	Comrade Pavić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11651	Thank you very much. Well, we've been listening to you all very carefully, and we really don't see this has anything to do with Vlad Plenkovic, nor Minister Coric. The public knows you about the demagogy around the mask, about denying all the facts about Covid and what you sent is just a demagogy. If you are, you know there's a crime you're looking for contracts, you could've already asked them through the right to access information. A school office that absolutely doesn't match the truth, a calculation that has nothing to do with a relationship. So, in 2012 and '13. the key dates, 31.10., are amended tariffs, 31.12.2013. 9 projects get that preferential tariff. What did Minister Coric do? Only 71 pillars allowed it to fall to 48, same force. The manufacturer didn't get anything out of it. You're paying attention to the wrong government, and what Mr. Tušek said is absolutely.../incomprehensible./...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11652	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11653	Well done for finding that the key thing to these figures happened in 2013 I'd say no '12. And that's confirmed by your president, but now we're coming up with a problem that you kind of skipped a little bit, which is the fact that Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, Minister Coric and Minister Maric, without any blinking, extended the same contract in 2018. And what does that mean? These preferential prices have not been changed at all. Then the price in Croatia is 42 June, in one Spanish 32 June, and you left a price of 78 June. Despite the fact that it's not a legitimate price, despite the fact that the investor has long gone beyond all the deadlines that he should have finished the windscreen and despite it, here I am telling you so you don't listen to me at all, but that's the ignoring, despite the fact that he didn't put a single wind generator at all at that point on the ground he built. That's the problem. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11654	Here's your friend, Thunderbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11655	Dear colleague Vidovic Kristo means everything you have brought to the stand and it is enough to see that there is no Prime Minister Plenkovic here, does not defend his ministers, has left these here who must defend indefensibly. So the facts are entirely on the side of what you said. The only thing I don't agree with is wind parks even funding them by the state. I think we need to turn to solar energy. Why? Because Croatia can produce and produce microsolars, if HABOR financed or co-financed, we would encourage its production, and the components for wind power plants unfortunately we do not produce in Croatia. I'd more like this one to do that. And he's right fellow Zekanovic when he says wind parks have a certain environmental impact while the microsolars we can have on their roofs don't.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11656	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11657	Thank you, dear fellow Grmoy. Here I will repeat again, however, so many topics in Croatia need to be held in debate and why no interpretations on this topic regarding ecology. I'm going to use this time and go back to my colleagues from HDZ because I couldn't finish the listing. So, in addition to all that I've said so far, the Government of Andrej Plenkovic implemented an absolute criminal contract in 2018 and a project that had already broken the deadlines had not been completed at all and should have broken the contracts, and still signed the HABOR loan of 600 million kuna. For what? For the product to be imported. The Croatian Bank for the Reconstruction and Development of Ladies and gentlemen, if you did not know, should encourage domestic production, revitalise the economy of our country, and those countries that produce it provide very favourable loans for what they export. We are a member of the EU. But I will point out in the end, if all is transparent, give us all the contracts, the full documentation, I appeal to the Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, the present ministers and you as parliamentary representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11658	Thank you very much. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11659	Dear colleagues here in your opening statement explaining this interpretation you also said quite immediately you were going to prove corruption in the Republic of Croatia which I cannot consider a point, specifically not in the term of this government, which is headed by Andrej Plenkovic. All of this, of course, needs to be put in a time frame. You said well at one point that everything happened in 2013, but then this government didn't make, and the crucial decisions were made at the time of another government. It is also neglected to imply that these decisions by Minister Ćoric have been made by both the legislative and judicial instance, i.e. the administrative court's decisions which have confirmed that everything was in accordance with the law. The team implies some things that aren't correct. And as far as I'm concerned, this part of your break-up [[Intruder: Thank you]] It's about [[Intruder: Thank you]] Consequences. [[Agreement: colleague Katičić]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11660	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11661	So, if all of this is by trusting Minister Coric, and you say you believe him, I am still in favour of looking at the documentation and looking at all the contracts, which is the essence of the interpretation, not just the debate, but the debate based on the insight into the entire documentation. If you don't know, I'll tell you again. So you're talking about the sin of the last government. I repeat, 2018. The government of Andrej Plenkovic extends a criminal contract with a then-privileged price that has long been broken by Croatian legislation. So it leaves 78 lips. It is a pity for the Croatian budget at 14. 2 billion, 200 million kuna. EU Member States such as Spain, Poland, are looking out for their budget and their citizens and have reduced retrogradely agreed prices, and your government does not. That's your crime scene. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11662	Comrade Petyr, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11663	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleague Kristo, you pointed out that you didn't have all the information, that you didn't get it. It is the right of each agent to request information under the Information Access Law, it must be obtained. I think it would be extremely useful to ask because by doing a little research on this whole case that's occupied the public, I'd say it's obvious that the key moment happened at the end of 2013. a day only before New Year's Eve, before applying a lower tariff for purchasing electricity from wind power plants and therefore the CEMP is actually in the last days of 2013. at the end of that year with HERA and CROTE, he concluded a contract which the state had committed to 14 years. to buy electricity from the CEMP and to do so on a more expensive 2012 tariff So when you're talking [[Intruder: Thank you]] about the end of the contract, it would have legal consequences because then... [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11664	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11665	I also invite you to inform yourself about the extension of the contract under these harmful, unfavourable conditions for Croatia where prices that have still been worth the price that have already been brought down throughout Europe, the government of Andrej Plenkovic is 2018. This has been prolonged even though the wind farm was not finished and in 2019 it also gave EUR 80 million of wind farm credit to be built even though there was no basis for the contract to be maintained. As for information over, let's say, parliamentary issues, so that's a pretty empty story, I'll tell you why. Here it is not selective enough to extract individual contracts, here it is important to get a look at the entire documentation because everything needs to be looked at in context. As for parliamentary issues and receiving answers and, among other things, the present Minister Maric, I have been waiting for more than 100 days for an answer to what has been spent 100,000 budget kunas at a morbid celebration in Serbia this year?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11666	Let's move on, Comrade Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11667	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Kristo, I've been listening very carefully to your opening speech and I don't know if you've figured it out, but you've accused your colleague, Bauk and Mrs. Bhauk. Mr. Dark-Taritash said they've been making decisions against the law in 2013. both in the 10th month and in the 12th and you have no dispute that they support you in this interpretation, which is a little strange to me, you even avoided the current president of the state who led that government and even the day before, the lower tariffs were signed contracts on more tariffs and you say that he was guilty of Andrej Plenkovic 2020. Okay, I agree you can think of it that way. And the second story is, you say you're in favour of environmental protection and you claim it's better to build 71 aggregates or 71 wind power plants, that less needs these forest roads, terrains, etc. to cross that, according to counterpart Zekanovic, it would be good landscape, not, but that it would be worse than to build 48 such aggregates or wind power plants, so you can teach us a little bit why it's so better, here?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11668	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11669	What I'm saying here, and that's what I said in the opening statement, is that this is an exemplar example of the terrible corruption that is happening in Croatia, and I said in the opening of 2013. SDP-HNS, and today HDZ-SDSS. As for the signatories of this interpretation, I have pointed out that many colleagues on the halls supported us, but we have collected 20 signatures and I will stress, the independent representative Zurovec, the MOST Club of Independent Lists, the Sovereign Club and, of course, we as the promoter or initiators of the Country Movement Club. What I think about ecology and what I think about other things is not the subject of this debate. This interpretation also requires answers to see the full documentation to break a harmful contract and save 2 billion, 200 million kunas to Croatian taxpayers that you are ready to simply get out of their pockets. That's the point.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11670	Thank you, thank you very much. A colleague of Anka Dark-Taritash, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11671	Thank you very much, esteemed President HS. Dear colleagues, therefore, it was absolutely clear in which direction the theme of the ruling ones would go. We've had opportunities to see this in the media all the time what they're going to point to. But there's one part of your interpretation that we all need to think about. Otherwise, I personally think that wind power plants in terms of keeping space and the environment are good. So, but it's my personal attitude and personal thinking. But there's one topic that really needs to be said about. The first research was in 1998, the generator produced by Rade Končar, for the first research. The first wind power plant in our country was launched in 2004. on Pag and the wind, so the generators and wind turbines were not produced in Croatia, and even more at the beginning, at least they were built in Croatia, domestically, therefore construction companies, and today Even come and [[Intruder: Thank you]] the foundations which are mounted mountly. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11672	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11673	I am not an expert in renewable energy sources, but I have gone very deep into this topic and when we talk about positive items of wind power then I say it in the context of a market that has changed in recent years, and all those who are executives in Croatia, so our employees, so the Croatian Government are obliged to monitor that market and whenever there is a favourable situation for taxpayers, they are obliged to reduce those prices, they are obliged to warn that the credit of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the credit which will be the import character of the products from Germany, Denmark and so on. and are then obliged to indicate that loans are taken for what will be imported from those countries from which they come, they are obliged to reduce prices if they are across Europe to 32 June why they are with us 78. That's what I'm warning you. And all those items related to wind power plants were in the context of that very market.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11674	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues in the first year of the Faculty of Law at the Department of Constitutional Law are under consideration at the Institute of Interpletion. The interpretation must be clearly asked and a reasoned question to be considered and the conclusions to be drawn. Your conclusion is more similar or directed to the postal service, not to the interpretation. If your true intention had been, this interpretation that the honest intentions were, then you would have asked why the previous consents of HER were brought to Christmas Eve and the Old Year 2013, and the contracts of CROTE itself concluded on 30 and 31 December 2013. How is 9 wind power plants a few hours before the change or transition to a new tariff system such contracts? Why did HEP leave the project in 2013 without any compensation and until then invested more than 20 million kuna? Perhaps the answer lies in the fact that all these actions took place in 2013 at the time of Milanovic's government, and it is evident that the applicant of this interpretation, i.e. the Homeland Movement, continues to cooperate successfully [[Intruder: Thank you.]] started during the presidential campaign. [[Invader: Comrade Habian, thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11675	Thank you very much. Please hold for one minute. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11676	The first part of my answer will be your question. Why didn't you put up with that kind of interpretation? And the second part of my answer is next. The conclusion proposed by the Croatian Government is due within 15 days to deliver to the Croatian Parliament all relevant contracts and decisions related to the wind farm Krš-Padjene. This includes: (a) the state of the documentation of the windman Krš-Paden on the day of signing the contract with CROTE with all the permits and consents provided for by the Law on Renewable Energy Sources and the highly efficient cogeneration as a prerequisite for the conclusion of a privileged contract with CROTE on the purchase of electricity, (b) all contracts and extensions concluded between the windmen Krš-Padene and CROTE, (c) all decisions of the Ministry of Energy and Environmental Protection relating to the project of the wind farm Krš-Padene as well as the decision of HER and the other decision of the control board of HABOR and the management of HABOR relating to this project, so from 2013 to today.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11677	Comrade Jelkovac, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11678	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, I have listened carefully to you and what is unacceptable to me, and at the end of your debate, you have stated that your basic objective of interpretation is primarily to achieve in society the rule of law. When you call on the rule of law, I don't think you're going to charge it first, and that's what you did in the debate that institutional crime was committed, and basically in the conclusion of the impelation, you're just looking for contracts to see what happened. So, it seems to me that you've turned a little order around. I don't think it's right to think that without facts, you can declare something a crime. On the other hand, I think you've confused some things, this government, or Minister Coric, is not guilty, nor has it been proven that anything has been done criminally, and the extension given by HER and the investor was right to do so has nothing to do with the preferential price that is Based on a contract signed with CROTE for 14 years. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11679	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11680	If you think the order is wrong, then I must warn you that the same logic has the same effect as the Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic because he has just confirmed all these facts in an explanation of the rejection of this interpretation. The first is that a harmful contract was concluded in 2013 at the Old Year, as you said a few hours before the entry into force of the lower price. The second thing was extended to this same contract with these unfavourable conditions in the distant 2018, when prices were no longer 53, but 42 June in Croatia, and 32 June in Spain. And the third confirmed that the loan of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development, for which, for aggregates which, for very favourable conditions, are credited by the very countries that export these products. So you don't have to really be afraid we didn't do anything wrong in the footsteps. Why do we want to see the contracts? So we can process this crime or prove that the government is innocent, and that can happen, but let them look into the contracts.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11681	Now it's my colleague Bacic's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11682	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues Kristo Vidovic, you have entered this topic as a Pilate of Believe. I listened to you carefully, you do not distinguish between the essential instruments of the Environmental and Nature Protection Act, you keep talking about the environmental impact study because you do not know that you need to talk about the project's acceptability assessment on the environmental network, read a little bit and who wrote this to you, warn that he is a little familiar with the legislation. You do not distinguish the ransom price from the incentive price, mix 42 limes with 53 limes, read what 42 limes are paid for, who is paid 53 limes and who is miswritten by someone. And the third thing for you the government did not refuse to interpret because there is nothing to refuse, the government did not want to be a tequila, it did not want to be a supplier, it did not want to be a courier because what you are looking for with this interpretation is the basis of the Law on the right to access information you should have asked CROTE and CROTE as a market operator in Croatia would have provided you with these documents. So then you and the copywriter could have done a little better. prepare. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] So this interpretation is really one It's a bizarre and absurd piece. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11683	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11684	Looks like you fell a little out of the sky into your ribs. Namely, if you are saying that the Government is not a tequila and a supplier I will warn you of an item that is obvious to you but I recommend it as a reading it is called the Croatian Constitution, the Government is responsible to the assembly, never prohibited questions, the government is invited to do business transparently. You are so eager to defend your government, so why don't you tell her why we should shorten the procedure, open the books, give the people, let the entire Croatian public see all these contracts to see how we are honest, honest and how we do it by law. But it doesn't happen, it doesn't happen. Your government says no, no, we don't let you see, everything's fine but we don't let you see the contracts. That's the problem, big problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11685	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, please choose your colleague Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11686	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Vidovic Kristo was injured by an article. 238. The Rules of Procedure degrade us not only the representatives but all Croatian citizens because every Croatian citizen should not even be a representative, should not be a minister, there should not be an official of any Croatian citizen, this document which the Mrs. and the Homeland Movement require to be delivered to them through impelation can be requested by simple letter in accordance with the Law on the right to access to information and will receive and will not have opportunities here... /The speakers speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11687	Thank you, colleague Bacic, this was a replica, so I'm giving you a heads-up. Let's move on, fellow Bull's last line.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11688	Thank you very much. My colleagues Kristo, of course, supported this interpretation, signed that Krš-Paden was a copy of the behaviour in Croatian society and the relationship with our resources we have and, of course, it was amazing to me mainly of you colleagues and colleagues Marijana Petir that a colleague of the representative in 2013, and these measures was brought by your coalition partner Vrdoljak. He brought this to his colleagues and colleagues. The bridge was a defence for colleagues and colleagues not to let this happen, so that no sucking out of the pocket of Croatian citizens' money at the expense of Croatian citizens would not happen. And colleagues Kristo are not the key to the whole story is that we don't have a single piece of production in Croatia, we have microsolars and the Bridge gave the law on two occasions four years ago, not once has it been accepted. Microsolars are a solution from product, technique to putting on roofs.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11689	Thank you very much. Before we respond to the replica, we have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, colleague Petyr. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11690	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleague Bulj was injured by an officer. The 238th because it is false here, Mr. Vrdoljak is no coalition partner of mine, and the time you refer to yourself I was a Croatian representative in the European Parliament and I have absolutely nothing to do with it. But if you had been informed and not engaged in politics and demagogy as you do otherwise, you would have known that former Minister Mirela Holy, who was from the SDP government, mentioned herself in several interviews that she also witnessed in the media that Mr Milanovic had sent her to the cabinet for her near relatives to question renewable energy sources.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11691	Thank you very much. Comrade Petyr, thank you very much. Don't throw it away when you were saying no one was throwing away, so she has the right of a colleague, Petyr, to say her position, and this was somewhere on the verge of hurting the Rules of Procedure, so I won't give a warning. Here you go. ... You're talking about something that doesn't matter again, so I've been making warnings and I have the right to judge one and the other when I consider something not to be a warning. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here's Kristo you have the right to respond to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11692	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague, Representative Buljo. I think we should drop the ball on what's on the subject today, which is the lighting of this very likely criminal-corruption project and look at all the items and insist on what's not someone's good will. So giving insight into the contract and giving interpretation at the request of the Parliament is not a reflection of goodwill, it is an obligation. We must fight for the respect of the law, I call on all independent MPs and also representatives of the ruling coalition to vote in favour of this interpretation, if they are convinced of the correctness of this government, and all points out that it is not right but that it is deeply involved in crime, then let them for that reason plead for impelation to defuse themselves from that government. We need to get a look at these contracts because 2 billion and 200 million kuna is too much money being stolen from Croatian taxpayers.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11693	Thank you. This is what we're done with the replicas. Now I'm going to ask my colleagues and colleagues to overwrite the pay phone so we can move on. Now, on behalf of the government, Ministers Coric and Maric will speak for 10 minutes, each having the right to five minutes. Here's your colleague, Ćoric. ... What? ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] A total of 10. So five minutes each you can talk. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11694	Ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable President of HS, the Honorable MPs and MPs at HS. In connection with the Ve Krš-Pađen project, the Interpelition on the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia said that it was a project launched more than 15 years ago on the realisation by the institutions of the competent ministry during several governments. The project of construction of VE Krš-Pađene was launched in 2003 by Austrian investors who take over the project in 2012 or sell the Energy Company CEMP d.o.o. The report shall state the course of entry of the documentation, authorisation and authorisation of the holder of the procedure in question by the competent authorities and the departments of procedure and its amendments and the conclusion of an agreement on the purchase of electricity from the holder of the procedure and the Croatian Energy Market Operator, CROTE. As regards the impact of the procedure in question on the environment, three solutions were made in October 2007 by the decision of the VE operation were assessed as acceptable to the environment by applying environmental protection measures and environmental monitoring programmes. In May 2009, an extended project is also classified as a solution that no environmental impact assessment procedure is required for the Ve Krš-Pađene enlargement procedure. In March 2017, for the change of procedures which the number of wind aggregates intended to be reduced from planned 71 to 48, with their total installed power of 142 megawatts, a solution was adopted which found that it was not necessary to carry out an environmental impact assessment procedure with the application of environmental protection measures and the noise monitoring programme established in the previous environmental impact assessment procedure in 2007 but that a major acceptance assessment should be carried out for the ecological network. The project holder submitted a proposal for renewal and a complaint to the Administrative Court in Split and requested legal protection from the DORH at the same time as the announcement of proceedings against the Republic of Croatia. During the consultation with the DORH, it was found that the main assessment of acceptability on the ecological network was already given through solutions from the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction of October 2007 and May 2009, and that the March 2017 solution. with an emphasis on the protection of nature and the inclusion of any possible precautionary measures which may be prescribed under the circumstances concerned should be repealed. So, 31 July 2017. The Ministry of Environment and Energy has officially annulled the decision of 20 March and found that it is not necessary to carry out a major assessment of acceptability on the ecological network, given that the evaluation has already been carried out through solutions of the Ministry of Environmental Protection, the spatial arrangement of 2007 and 2009. The case against this solution against the Ministry of Environment and Energy was closed in April 2019 when a solution adopted by the ministry was confirmed in July 2017, which means that the same is legal and legal. Given the previous solutions and consent, the setting of wind aggregates is divided into 3 phases, 80, 20 and 42 megawatts. During 2013 3 energy approvals for the construction of projects were issued by the ministry. On the basis of the Hera's accumulated licences, it has issued 3 prior solutions to obtaining the status of a privileged electricity producer. On 30 December 2013 and 31 December 2013 between the company of the holder of the procedure and CROTE, contracts for the purchase of electricity were concluded on the deadline of 14 years. The contracts are concluded in accordance with the tariff system for the production of electricity from renewable energy sources and cogeneration from 2012. The new tariff system, which was then adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia at the end of 2013 and which entered into force on 1 January 2014, reduced the incentive price from 71 June per kilowatt to 53 June per kilowatt. Therefore, the Croatian Energy Market Operator day or two before the expiry of the right to apply the old tariff system and to apply a new one with the CEMP holder d.o.o. with project holder CEMP d.o.o. concluded contracts for the purchase of electricity at the incentive price of 71 June per kilowatt. Therefore, it is incorrect to state from the interpretation that the contracts were subsequently extended, as if there were a price adjustment obligation defined by the pre-existing rules. Dispute agreements were concluded during the term of office of the government of Mr Milanovic, not the current government for which the interpretation is submitted. On 9 February, HERA adopted 3 solutions, 2018. HERA has made 3 solutions extending the period of 4 g. from previous solutions on the acquisition of the status of the privileged electricity producer from 24.12.2013 and 31.12.2013. Extending the validity of previous solutions on the acquisition of the status of the privileged producer shall be based on art. C. 7th century 2. Regulation on the acquisition of the status of the privileged electricity producer. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: On 30 December 2019, 23 March 2020, and 18 May 2020 HERA has reached a solution on the acquisition of the status of the privileged electricity producer for the wind power plant Fallen installed power 20, 42 and 80 megawatt hours. Before I leave my word to my esteemed colleague, Deputy Prime Minister Maric, I would like to point out a few facts about HBOR. The government's proposal for a government's report on government work on several occasions lists the websites on which all documents or solutions of the Ministry of Environmental and Energy Protection can be found, as well as HERA. Therefore, it is not true that these reports or documents cannot be obtained. The state institutions in charge of this, the State Attorney's Office or the USOK, in the past period, have also excluded all possible solutions or documents concerning this project from the Ministry or the ministries involved. Finally, I would point out the following fact, in Mrs. Kristo said Minister Dobrovic has requested to re-implement the environmental impact assessment process, it is not true. So, Minister Dobrović has been in his decision since 31 March 2017, I apologize, as the first point says no process for environmental impact assessment is necessary. The motives why he wanted the main assessment to be carried out should be sought during the time period before, but should be sought on the issue of the ethical bank already mentioned here, should also be sought in situations where the Most Independent List is in the negotiations with HDZ in the formation of a government at the end of 2015. insisted exactly on the ethical bank as one of the moments that will save Croatia. As well as how MOST was at the time, and also the co-workers of Minister Dobrović communicated with a potential investor about it will probably say a little more today's debate. What I want to point out, Mrs. Poirot. Kristo, one thing's nice to say, you spoke very nicely. But the other thing is to tell the truth. Thank you very much. Mr. Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11695	Before fellow Marić, I would ask MP Kristo to put on a mask like everyone else correctly, you are today the proposing of this, so you must serve as an example and still disagreed with it properly, I ask you to lift it over your nose because everyone wears it that way. Please. No, you're not. [[Intruder: Yes]] Here's a colleague of Maric's.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11696	Thank you, well-respected President HS, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Here's some information on my part. So HBOR was in March 2019. CEMP granted a loan under an environmental protection programme of EUR 80 million to finance the Krš-Padjene windscreen project. Credits are granted which I will elaborate a little later, but first of all, I would like to emphasise that the appropriations were used to stimulate the production of electricity from renewable sources, which is part of the HABOR strategy as an export and development bank, whose production was funded by the European Commission and developed in accordance with the European Commission's rules and with its supervision and approval that it is part of the strategic interests of the Republic of Croatia, which contributes to reducing import dependence on electricity. Moreover, in addition to this project, HABOR financed 4 other wind-power projects and nearly 200 other renewable energy projects including solar energy. Since the promotion of an energy neutral economy is one of the 5 pillars of the HABOR strategy, it is precisely by building the most important windman in the Republic of Croatia. I'd like to refer these minutes to several allegations in the interpretation that are not true, among other things, I won't be able to make it all, among other things it's about privileged lending. The total investment of wind power plant was EUR 236 million, of which around 60% of the total costs relate to the client's own participation. As a rule, this previously listed 4 own participation was 25%. At the time of granting the loan, the interest rate per the credit programme in question was 3% annual variable. HABOR has kept his right here at the placement of more than 37 million kuna so that he can make a higher interest, so the interest is 3.7 above the program prescribed. Also, according to the programme, approval for 14 years with 3 years starts was granted 12 and a half years with a year's start. Finally, the analysis of all the scenarios shows that the credit user, except with the incentive price, can properly settle credit obligations with the market price of electricity. All mentioned together with HABOR and what counterpart Ćoric said, the government of course proposes [[Thank you. You.]] "refusing impediment." [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11697	Okay, so we have this, so for Minister Ćorić 14 replicas and 4.3 replicas for Vice President Maric. Here we go. First up, dear fellow Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11698	Thank you very much. Ministers for which you signed, which is why you signed that a wind farm in Padjan could be built to harm the vast Croatian economy mainly Croatian citizens. We must bring laws here for the benefit of Croatian citizens, we must bring, not only the benefit of investors with whom you are known, with whom you meet in clubs or I do not know you accuse here a colleague of Dobrovic who is no longer with me in the party here, but I guarantee that he is an honest man. And he certainly wasn't in clubs, in.../incomprehensible/... there's a money counter, for sure. Explain to us why you signed this project if a necessary study is not done, an impact on the environmental assessment, which is why, can you give one reason?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11699	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11700	Only if you didn't work it out at the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11701	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11702	It seems to me, Mr. Bull, that you've never been to any club, but well, that's the subject of another debate now, I believe there will be an opportunity in 10 days, 15 days. So this solution was signed after multiple consultations with the State's Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia. So, once again, after multiple consultations by officials or officials of the Ministry of Environment and Energy, even before I arrived at that two-month interval with the State's Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia. Because this solution protected the rule of law in the Republic of Croatia, the interest of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11703	Here you go, pal Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11704	Dear Minister Žorić...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11705	A fellow Dretar injures the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11706	... In accordance with Article 238 of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, [[Specially enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11707	Minister Maric didn't say anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11708	Minister Ćorić, well, well excuse me there is a lot of data, the head is small, the hardware is weak, the software is even weaker. I would just like to say that Mr. Bulj, as you said, here is Minister Coric, who injured Article 238 because, by my assessment, he insulted Representative Bulj. Representative Bulj certainly wasn't at a club in Slovenia, but he was at a club even though the minister claims he didn't He was at the Croatian Army club that created the Croatian state. [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11709	Thank you, dear fellow Dretar. You're getting a warning, of course. Let's go to another replica, colleague Zekanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11710	Dear Minister Ćorić, here you are and in your debate you pointed out that the matter was decided long before your time, I will even agree with that in part, but I am only interested in your opinion, your position. Is this a favourable contract for Croatia, for Croatian citizens or not, that is the first question? Here, just your opinion today. And would you sign it today as signed by Milanovic and Vrdoljak at that time? And the second question, could this money, the huge money actually that Croatia subsidized kW, kW produced from wind power plants, be rerouted for example. to encourage solarists on the roofs of Croatian families?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11711	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11712	Thank you very much for asking, Mr. Zekanovic, so I will answer it like this, every economic decision creates an opportunite cost, and also the promotion of wind power plants creates the cost of not encouraging something else in the same amount. What is world practice and that at this point is the dominant production of renewable energy comes from wind energy. The reason is very banal or economically simple because the smallest possible territory can create the greatest power. Croatia was no exception there. In the context of future time, allow me to inform you that during this year we have adopted a legislative framework that allows for the so-called system. the auction or premium system which, unlike this system, creates competition among potential manufacturers and significantly reduces the ceiling price, for example, at wind power plants, will be 45 June.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11713	Thank you. My colleague, Romana Nikolic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11714	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, dear Minister, you think this interpretation is unfounded, so I'll remind you of a few things. I will also remind you that you have damaged Croatian taxpayers by a billion and 500 thousand kuna in the case of Ve Krš-Pared Croatian taxpayers. Despite the decision of the competent court, you have again appointed the director of NP Krka, who plagiarized the tender documentation, and you have rejected the qualified candidate Croatian defender Dr. Snakes. Mr. Ćorić, you are currently the minister with the biggest affairs over the head of the disputed Memorandum, which is sent not to Rijeka but to the Hungarian refinery... because the issue of national interests as the main promoter of Hungarian energy policy through the Croatian company INA has enabled the handover of Croatian energy resources in Hungary in order to enable the work of Hungarian refineries, while the cancellations in... /The speakers speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11715	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11716	Dear MPs, I thank you for your replica. However, this material you have read is actually material that you will probably read in a few weeks based on your colleague Ahmetovic's initiative and is not really the subject of today's debate, just his first small part. Here's Mrs Ahmetovic smiling, only his little first part is. In the context of this harmful contract as you call it, therefore this tariff, this system is generally a whole segment of renewable energy that you are now talking about and to which you refer was created at the end of 2013. Many of your colleagues at the time were part of the process in one way or another, members of the government, or worked on different ministries, so it would be good for you to inform them about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11717	Now it's my friend Grumo's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11718	We have only one question: Minister Ćoric can, on behalf of all HDZ colleagues who said it was 2013, you can answer me why Secretary of State Josipa Rimac is in prison and whether Josipa Rimac was in Milanovic's government in 2013, was she in that government? Just answer that question so we can conclude this debate on 2013.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11719	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11720	Thank you for this question, Mr. Grmoya, or your replica. As far as I know, Mrs. Rimac is no longer in custody, and the court proceedings that will follow will likely shed light on her guilt or innocence in the context of all events. However, the idea of blaming the Government of Andrej Plenkovic for this project or for the functioning of renewable energy projects in the Republic of Croatia and transferring responsibility for doing or not doing so in past governments is absolutely out of the question. Allow also at one point Mrs. Kristo wondered why someone had not annulled that harmful contract for the Republic of Croatia, so you said. So why didn't Slaven Dobrović, the minister of protection and the environment and energy cancel this harmful contract for the Republic of Croatia when it was damaged, why didn't he cancel it?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11721	Please, colleague Bulj, slowly, we have the opportunity to react through individual discussions and replicas and don't throw it out of the bench. Now it's Comrade Tomasevic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11722	I'd like to ask Mr. Coric if you could return the time for my colleague, Coric, to prepare to be able to replicate.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11723	You have the right to your minute, you do not have to wait for a colleague, Ćorić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11724	Well, I'm not gonna talk to an empty plexiglas. So I'm curious... /The speakers speak at the same time./... I am interested in Mr Ćorić 50 days after you become the Minister of Environmental Devastation at the end of all the things you are obliged to do, you are going to cancel out only four months old solution which cancels the need for a major impact assessment on the ecological network, precisely for the investment of the CEMP, for which your colleague, State Secretary Josipa Rimac, is suspected by the USKOK for the benefit and bribes, and this was just arrested two weeks after the European Commission launched a procedure against the Republic of Croatia for violating the Habitats Directive to quote "Croatia has not systematically adhered to the Habitats Directive in approving the changes of the projects VA along the coast". Well, the European Commission is about to draw up which project it is and that you are responsible for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11725	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11726	Thank you very much, Mr. Tomasevic, for your replica. My repeal of the March 2017 solution and I will repeat it once again and I will repeat it as long as it takes, followed by multiple consultations of people from the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Energy of my colleagues or associates with the DORH. The fact that it was a solution that was annulled 50 days after I joined the minister's post could have been annulled after five days or after 505 days, however. As far as the European Commission or the line you mentioned is concerned, you yourself are deeply aware of the fact that it is not a single power plant but that we have a general challenge with major assessments before and after EU entry. Of course it is. And as for the name of the ministry you used, it's very nice.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11727	Thank you. Now it's time for my colleague Bencic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11728	I have a question for both ministers regarding an 80m-euro HBOR loan. So, at the beginning, the HBOR administration made it very clear, and this was also pointed out by your former colleague, Gabriela Žalac, that the condition for obtaining that loan to the investor to get credit from other investment banks and commercial banks. At what point did that condition cease to be a condition? And I wonder if you, Mr. Coric or you, Mr. Finance Minister, who was on the Supervisory Board, spoke to each other at that time with any member of the board in the direction that this criterion should be abandoned and an 80m-euro loan granted without that criterion? I note that this question will also be sent to the members of the HBOR Board and it would be good if you told the truth, did you communicate with them during the loan approval period?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11729	Here's your colleague, Ćoric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11730	I'll leave the word
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11731	No, no, you can't leave the word, you're answering the line now, you have to answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11732	I'll leave the word...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11733	No, no, no, no, you can't leave the word, you're answering the line now, you have to answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11734	Okay, so I'll answer, then I wasn't a member of the HBOR Supervisory Board at the time. Minister Maric?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11735	Dear Coric, yet, more, you may one day come to this place, but while you are here, you can't exactly organise a debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11736	The question was, that part was intended for the Minister of Finance, your part was that you influenced...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11737	Wait a minute, my colleague Bencic, my colleague Bencic, I beg you not to come in this way. You can't ask questions once and for the other minister, you can only ask the one you responded to, counterpart Ćoric answered, and counterpart Maric will answer if he wants to at the time when he will respond to the replica that will be addressed to him. Please stick to the procedure. Comrade Dark-Taritash, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11738	Thank you very much, esteemed President HS. Dear Minister Ćorić, therefore your authority as minister in charge of the area of nature protection and environmental protection. Under the Nature Protection Act adopted at the end of 2013, a Regulation on the assessment of acceptability on the ecological basis was adopted. In accordance with the provisions of Art. 2. that Regulation is clearly defined for which an assessment of acceptability is carried out on the ecological network. I wonder at what point the whole story was dragged into the DORH? What were the elements and reasons why the DORH was the one who eventually decided how to apply the Regulation or not? What were your reasons or reasons for the ministry that led you to advise the DORH is this one of the few examples where the DORH changed some opinion and some attitude and application of that regulation? Thank you very much. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11739	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11740	I'd like to thank you for the replica or question. Dark-Taritash. So I'm going to briefly refer to the document that's available to you again. Therefore, the project holder submitted to the Ministry of Environment and Energy with a March 2017 solution. Proposal for a renewal of proceedings, which is a regular procedure, and a complaint to the Administrative Court in Split. For the period from May to July 2017, The representatives of my ministry hold consultations with the State's Attorney's Office, primarily for the protection of the rights of the Republic of Croatia in this case, and we also send the documentation to the then state's attorney, Mr Cvitan, as well as a proposal for a solution to the annulment. The consultations with the DORH show that it is in the interest of the Republic of Croatia or that, on the basis of the documentation, it is established that the main assessment of acceptability to the ecological network as such is already given through the 2007 and 2009 decision, and that the March decision respecting the principle of rule of law, acquired rights of parties and the principles of legitimate expectations, together with, of course, legitimate expectations. The emphasis on nature protection should be annulled. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11741	Thank you. Now it's MP Vidovic Kristo's turn, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11742	First of all, it is not Dobrović 2018. You extended the contract, but you did it through the agencies that you're in charge of, which is HERA and HROT. Secondly, the obligation to reduce the price is very much your obligation because you are obliged as a Croatian government to protect the national interests and interests of Croatia, not one man named Bašić who is some sort of fugitive person who deals with cars. Third, an invalid contract was concluded in 2013 because there was no building permit, you owed it and you still had to break it up. And fourthly, this inconclusive rip of yours, so cut it out and give it an impel and open the contracts for everyone to see.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11743	Comrade Kristo, I'd be begging you not to make fun of you now, you're the only one who doesn't have a mask properly. Please stick to all the rules and order. Here's your colleague, Ćoric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11744	Ma'am. Kristo, with the incorrect thesis you're presenting again, but it's obvious they're the platform for your exposure today. I'll refer you to one thing that may not have been known to you today, I ask you to check it out, and finally call a press conference after this presentation sometime tonight when we're done. Therefore, HERA, or its members and president, elects HS and in no way are they under the authority of the Ministry of Environmental and Energy Protection, never will either. That's something you might want to check, you'd like to eat while you're laughing to type into your cell phone and check it out. So my communication with HERA as a minister is actually very limited and it has to be so, so it's legal. According to the law you're referring to, according to the law you mentioned 20 times in your law today. If that contract was useless, so Mr. Bašić The CMP or any of the investors are irrelevant. [[Intruder: Thank you]] If it's a contract Why didn't Slaven Dobrović undo it? [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11745	Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. Now it's time for fellow Petyr, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11746	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, here's the debate that's become clear...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11747	Please don't throw it out of the bench.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11748	...that it was 2013. HEP CEO was left with a project in which he invested more than 20 million kunas without asking for any compensation, that it was in the Old Year 2013. the day before the introduction of the new tariff system also made it possible for the CMP to receive additional earnings from cca. 900 million kuna. There are also some investments that were made by HEP in infrastructure and have enabled the CEMP to further expand capacity even though it did not meet the obligations of the Investment Treaty. It seems to me from all of this that the CEP with the Krš-Paden project is directly favored by Milanovic's government, but perhaps I am wrong, so I would like to hear from you what treatment were other renewable energy projects at the time?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11749	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11750	Thank you very much for the replica, ma'am. Petyr. Therefore, in the period from 31 October 2013 to until 1 January 2014 From the moment Mr Milanovic's government decision was taken to reduce the tariff until the moment the decision on the tariff reduction came to life at HERA level and then at HROTE level, contracts for 9 projects were signed. Wind power plant Jesenice, Wind power plant Orjak, Wind power plant Katuna, Wind power plant Lukovac, Wind power plant Post, Wind power plant Rudine and 3 CEPM projects total power 320 MW.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11751	Here you go, pal Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11752	Thank you very much. Mr. President, Mr. Minister, it was immediately seen that it was a selective approach, that it was a classic hajka that wanted to be carried out here in the Croatian Parliament, but I am very interested and very much interested in the the thesis that Croatian citizens must know that this is the basis of our mission here in the Croatian Parliament, so please let me show you which role was the minister, especially Minister Dobrović who participated in this project and how he could have prevented it, and he did not prevent this project as we now call it one of the biggest robberies in the history of the Croatian state.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11753	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11754	So Mr. Dobrovic's role in the initial phase of his ministry can be witnessed by his associates some of them and from MOST as Mr. Bulj said the profession from MOST, and in the later phase as well. What I think, let me share my impression with you is that Minister Dobrović is currently in a very loud position to observe the current developments in the Republic of Croatia. Given the fact that in the segment of environmental and energy protection in the context of environmental and energy protection in a year and a half as far as the minister was concerned, he did almost nothing.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11755	Let's move on, now it's time for a colleague, Rade Simičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11756	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Ministers here is constantly passing the the thesis that you are responsible for the harmful contracts signed in 2013 and not only you but also current Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic. You were not a minister then, nor was Mr. Plenkovic the prime minister of the government. And in the end, could you have done something about those contracts and what a pity it would have been in the end if those contracts had broken down for the Croatian state? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11757	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11758	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative, for your replica and for your question. So I am the minister who has made decisions during his term of office in the past four years. Some of these decisions have been and will be subject to questions from the Croatian public, and I am aware of that. However, in the specific case of my decision or decision of the ministry, and this concrete solution was made after consulting the only institution I hold that I, as a minister or my ministry, should agree or consult, the State's Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia, I do not know a better instance unless it is possible that MOST independent lists or someone similar to them should consult, with Mr Bul, perhaps or someone who has that level of expertise to show me and point to the path to which they should go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11759	Thank you. Don't throw fellow Bull, turn off the microphone.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11760	Go to Slovenia 9. Count your counter.../incomprehensible/...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11761	Comrade Bull, please. Let's move on, now it's my colleague Bauk's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11762	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11763	Buddy Bulj, just a little buddy of Bauk's. Please debate is such that you have made your arguments, Minister Coric of yours when you come to order then answer, well, I look forward to it. Come on, this fellow Bauk, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11764	Thank you. Mr. Minister, I noticed a certain rhetorical line in the appointment of institutions and individuals. So, only Zoran Milanovic was named by the name and last name of that period, and the rest of them are HROTE institutions, HER, and you don't even mention the name of the resorient minister. I'm interested in one thing, who signed those contracts on behalf of the Croatian state in November and December 2013, name and last name, not signed by the institution, that's the first. The second thing we know is who the minister of resolution was, if something was wrong then is Mr. Vrdoljak, let's stop the debate waiting for the only agent of his party, Stromar, to show up here, and let him answer to what Vrdoljak tells him. Therefore, I understand this line of defense that there is something that wants to be transferred to 2013, but let's be consistent, we have the Secretary of Defense, the Ministry of Resort and the institutions. HERE-led is still a member of the HNS, for 6.7 years Right? [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] It is.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11765	Thank you very much, thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11766	So, thank you very much, Mr. Bauk, for your intervention, or your replica. As regards decision-making, this decision has been adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia since 31 October 2013. As regards the signatories of these contracts by HERE, this contract, or earlier decision on the acquisition of the status of the privileged electricity producer, was signed by Mr. Jurekovic, Mr. Jurekovic, and as far as HROTE was concerned by the person who was the director of HROTE at the time was Mr. Ivor Županić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11767	Now it's my dear colleague Bacic's turn, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11768	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister in the towers of the Croatian Parliament is said to be the author of this interpretation your predecessor at the place of Minister of Environmental Protection Mr. Slaven Dobrović. What Mr. Bully called him an honest man. I remember when, two years ago, this honest man falsely accused this minister here as chairman of the HABOR Supervisory Board, it should be remembered that he encouraged other members of the Supervisory Board to lend credit to companies in the Agrokor concert and thus that he was in conflict of interest. When the Supervisory Board, when HABOR audio from that session, it was found that Mr. Maric was exempt and refused to vote or debate. Well, now we have to believe in the righteousness of this honest man Dobrovic in his solution. And your solution to determine that no previous main assessment of the project should be carried out on the ecological network, acceptability project for the ecological network if they have confirmed possible court cases in Croatia, I am interested in that. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11769	Thank you very much. Before we answer, we only have a small breach of the Rules of Procedure, along the way of injury to the Rules of Procedure with video connection. Here's your colleague, Kujundzic, next time.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11770	Thank you, Your Honor. The Honorable Minister whether or not his colleague was at the club or not is of less importance is also less important than he knows or doesn't know. What's important is the fact that over your presence at the club you shouldn't actually be liquefied but you should bend your head. What Bulj was, what he knows or what he doesn't know is actually less important and you and I should bow down to him for everything he has to this country that, and Miro ask can, has a right and thank him for being there. Chairman, I withdraw the breach of the Rules of Procedure and thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11771	No matter what, no matter what, no matter how Highduk lives, an eternal reminder still goes to you. Now let's go answer the line, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11772	So, dear Representative Bacic, thank you for your replica. So I would not refer further to Mr Dobrovic's actions or his motives. The only thing I'm going to refer to is the fact that in the past few years I've been re-populated on waste management in the Republic of Croatia and the construction of waste management centres. These waste management centres are provided for in the document of the waste management plan by the Republic of Croatia, made by Mr. Dobrovic. So, I've continued his work. So, so much for the one who's so critical of my job in that segment. As for the solution brought by the ministry in July 2017, I will repeat, it has been sued on two counts, in the administrative court, in the high administrative court, the high administrative court and the administrative court have rejected these claims and it has been confirmed that this solution is both legally and legally.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11773	Thank you very much. We have another replica for Minister Ćorić, colleague Oreskovic, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11774	Minister, you can't even try to defend what's indefensible. During your term of office, HERA has made three solutions to assign the status of a privileged producer to a company that is involved in one of the biggest mega affairs of the Croatian judiciary. We can't claim that you're corrupt and involved in it, because the measures of the investigation against Josepha Rimac broke just at the moment that it may have occurred either to you or to the Prime Minister. At that time, however, regular soul - care workers were not concerned about how measures were being fired because there were still no people from the club. And I have to tell you, speaking of these midwives, I'm surprised that Zoran Milanovic didn't like your résumé. According to the answer you gave to Representative Bul, I see you have the same attitude about club members or all those who criticize you from the club. No, we're not jealous of you who share the interests of the Republic of Croatia there, but we're angry that this is how caste is created for damage. Croatian citizens and Croatian entrepreneurs. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11775	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11776	Thank you very much, ma'am. Nutcracker on your tail. It's a very interesting exposure. I'll answer you like this given the fact that my stay at that club will be subject to questioning in the context of the shift procedure. I was at that club on several occasions. But I've never even earned a kuna from Janaf. There's someone in this room.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11777	Injury of my colleague Oreshkovic's Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11778	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, so you directly insult me. You keep trying to impose the thesis that they're all the same. No one is disputed who in a fair and legal way got a job from Janaf and earned a job on Janaf. You're the one who's been pulling millions from the Janaf Club and hiding them in the trunks of the state's attorney general or their deputies, it's controversial in this country, respected ministers.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11779	My colleague Oreshkovic, so you didn't say which article was injured, that's the first one. Secondly, Coric didn't mention you, I don't know why you recognized yourself in that. Maybe someone else was working with Janaf. So there wasn't this breach of the Rules of Procedure here. ... I'm not gonna give a warning because the emotions were a little strong, so you're gonna give up now, too? [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] You won't give up. Here's my colleague Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11780	Thank you, Mr. President. I can't, and I can't give up, it's an injured ankle. 238. Since when did she become a representative of the respected Mrs. O'Donnell? and representative Oreskovic insults members of the HDZ and Minister of the Government of the Republic of Croatia from day to day. And now she wonders, let's just say that the then Prime Minister didn't like Mr. Coric's résumé's résumé, unlike her, whose résumé certainly liked her résumé. He liked it and then by the grace of the rulers [[Intruder: Thank you, beautiful colleague Bačić]] Set up for the chairman of the commission. [[/Intruder: Comrade Bačić, thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11781	Since I haven't even given my notice to my colleague Oreshkovic, I won't give it to you either. ... I'll take it back, I'll take it back, then I'll take it back, I'll warn my colleague, Bačić, and I won't warn her. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] Here's a colleague, I won't, good, good. Okay, here's the pressure I gave in. Here you go, yeah, now I'm just asking you to wipe out the pay phone, and then my colleague Maric will. Thank you. Here we go in a row. The first one's a colleague of Peric's.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11782	The Honorable President of the Assembly. Dear Ministers, you are accused of giving privileged loans as chairman of the HBOR Supervisory Board, whose member I was then. However, it is not to be acknowledged here that these are renewable energy projects, and in this case at which interest rates were granted, these funds and in what way. It is also known that the investor had to have at least 60% of its own resources in order to even come into account that it is looking for such funds, and that the interest rate is also above those interest rates that were then granted to others, which means that they do not fall under state support, direct state support.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11783	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11784	Thank you, well-respected MPs, and here's to you on the line. So what you said about granting a loan, I must repeat once again, according to the legal framework in the Republic of Croatia in the Supervisory Board of Finance and five other colleagues, so all six ministers, the president of the HGK and three parliamentary representatives from the framework as agreed by the clubs. Where a specific project task is approved or considered, up to 700,000 kuna, the value of the project is an ingenuity of the credit committee itself to be able to approve. Between 700,000 and 37 million kunas can be decided by the administration, and more than 37 million kuna from the expert services of the credit committee, the decision of the administration comes to the satisfaction of the Supervisory Board. It's a procedure that only, I thought and hoped we'd established in some previous situations, and here we have to do it again this time. As far as the terms are concerned, I just said it wasn't a privileged loan at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11785	Now it's my colleague Brumnic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11786	...to this last one, which you said in your debate that this was not a preferential loan, that the interest rate was above the market rate. My question is, where is the interest of the Republic of Croatia and where is the interest of the HBOR to lend something like this? Is it because of these loans that have been given? Other Croatian entrepreneurs could not reach the funds, and we are witnessing how many loans HBOR does not approve. This is about 80m euros, practically the entire Krš-Padene investment has funded the Republic of Croatia, and in your own debate, you said that this loan can be returned at the price of the electricity on the market. It means that the entire incentive that the Republic of Croatia gives goes directly to the investor, and Croatia has financed and that is what is the key question why.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11787	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11788	Thank you very much, Your Honor. HBOR didn't push anyone, so no one's going to be cut off. HBOR has enough liquid assets enough credit lines in relations with international financial institutions with the EU to source funds, you have seen for yourself in the budget rebalancing which I hope tomorrow you will support it is reinforced funds tied to very high and HBOR is able to lend production, export and ine programmes that it already has to its portfolio. I need to correct you a little bit, 36% of the total investment value is HBOR's credit, 4% is HPB's additional loan, the remaining 60% is the investor's participation. I just said, not in money, a total of 236 million, so I just said that as far as the conditions are concerned, and this part when you compare with the previous four WEs, a total of almost 183 renewable energy projects are the most solar and biogas, biomass and HE. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11789	Thank you. And the last replica of the esteemed colleague of the Wolf. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11790	Dear Minister Maric, you, as chairman of the HBOR Supervisory Board in 2019, confirmed the decision despite opposition from HBOR professional services, which takes over the high-risk financing of the Krš-Paden project amounting to 600 million kuna. I have here a list of 250 users of the Operational Programme for the Development of cattle farming of the Republic of Croatia co-financed by HBOR funds. A total of 250 families are in charge of the programme with 150 million kuna, and families are destroyed because with a price of 2 kuna per litre of milk they cannot repay the loans. Some people's lives have been ruined. I need to ask you, didn't it occur to you as Slavonca and as a human helper to this population who just wanted to live off the results of her work and feed this nation, healthy domestic food, but went to a man with 600 million kuna money from Croatian taxpayers? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11791	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11792	Thank you very much. It is not about any convenience, with all due respect to your replica, I will only remind you that the HBOR within its programmes before 29 total, and today 9 ESIF credit programmes and covid measures credit the entire Croatian economy with selflessly sharing their resources, which it actively collects in international and domestic financial markets and its role as development bank, is still there. As far as I repeat the procedures myself again, as much as you try to impute the role of the sole supervisory board or one person, therefore professional services are processing credit requirements, all related to this credit rating is, if necessary, working on all the discussions that took place within the framework of the expert services of the credit board or the supervisory board, to improve the conditions in favour of the bank itself, to protect the bank as such against potential risks, which is otherwise banking practice. Therefore, there was also a legal existence of all the permits required, and also the banking or business logic got the green light. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11793	Thank you, Minister Maric. We're done with the replicas, and now I'm opening a debate. Only for a short time, so the clubs 10 minutes, individually 5 minutes, and between each debate, the motionor and representatives of the government can come forward and speak for 5 minutes. On these exposures are possible replicas, individual exposures are possible replicas and are not exposed to clubs. Thank you very much. The first one will speak on behalf of Representatives' Club of the Independent Lists Most esteemed counterpart Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11794	Thank you very much. Companions and colleagues, respected citizens. In front of us here, the interpretation that I personally and my colleagues from the club signed along with 19 other parliamentary representatives, I believe that this interpretation is very important to discuss in this home in front of the minister of environmental threats, to threaten energy addiction, to threaten national security, to threaten waste, to endanger all projects that he would care about. I once said that for the last four years, WE in the Republic of Croatia cost our citizens a year out of the pockets of poor citizens a billion and a half kuna subsidies. I will not talk about the time of 2013 as Zoran Milanovic said when Mr Bernardic brought the Minister of Threats, when he brought his résumé to his desk to be one of the key advisers to Vrdoljak, I do not know who he was meant to be, the coalition partner of Mr Ćorić. This time does not interest me, nor interests me in my career and only the career of Minister Ćorić, who humiliates our parliamentary representatives mainly in the continuity of me. This man, this man sitting next to us, has done so much damage to Krš-Padjana, and I'm not going to say it now, I'm going to say it in one piece, but I have to remember a year ago where from Vrgorec, from Vrgorec, he made a decision along with the inspectorate to delay the waste in the Cetina region by the river Cetina. 100 km, 120 km and that decision has been made and after that decision is now closed, he has made a show about waste management centres and waste disposal in Split-Dalmatia County and Dalmatia. Minister Ćoric in Kršo-Padene is visible that decision which he probably did not make alone, he could not without the blessing of Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic and when he calls the Most Independent Lists, I am proud that I am one of 12 those who did not want to overpower when it came to the energy interests of taking over our largest company is INE by the Hungarian MOL. I don't blame the Hungarians here, I resent the Hungarians who our Hungarians have respected environmental ministers, our Hungarians have given management rights to foreign interests, foreign interests given by foreign interests by management rights. And not only that, but this very minister and this government, this government, in continuance in the last term, has given rights. Now look, if our representative in INI had no right to vote, the right to vote, and I was really playing a song here to get up the Bane of Croatia calling you, so much Hungarianization didn't happen. And I'm proud of those times, someone mentions some time when some Jose Petrovics or I don't know who some consultants who paid you a bag and I don't know how. And I don't mention these people anymore, it's time behind us. We're talking about the current government, we're talking about a government where the coalition was a HNS Vrdoljak, Mr. Boric.../incomprehensible/... please report to him there's something to tell you about the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Minister Ćoric and Vrdoljak spent all this time and Minister Ćoric made the decision in 2015, he made the decision, it is your coalition partner. It's funny to you, it's funny to you because you're just a careerist, it was important for you to be admitted to the SDP by Milanovic, not being admitted to the SDP, he didn't want you. Yeah, I mean, I'm sorry, but it doesn't matter to you where you're strangers. In that party where you were when I was, I forgot where I was, I forgot when I was, I forgot. And of course I'm interested in the silence of your coalition partner, and in this area live people of Serbian nationality. Mostly, it's an interesting silence from Milorad Pupovac, and here's a colleague from the SDSS so she can say two, three words about this project in the area. Which has a local population in that area besides having money out of their pockets, that poor girl over there, the poor lady you SDSS are supposed to be moaning for both Pupovac and Mrs. Shimpraga, who's been talking all day about problems in Gjibankso-Knin County, from hospitals, from the orphanage, and she's the mayor, she's the mayor. And as for Minister Dobrović, make a deal with yourself, Mr. Minister, that puts the environment at risk. You make a deal with yourself, whether it's hitchhiked or it's potentiated the project, and I know for all I know then that the people of the ministry have stopped the project. Stopped the Krsh-Padjana project. For what? Because 2.5 billion will have to be paid out of my pockets, 2.5 billion. 2/3 of Croatia is empty. Do you know what 2.5 billion means? At a time when we've given you two times, it wouldn't be if we didn't suggest, because how do you say the intellectual abilities of certain parliamentary deputies? You know what 2.5 billion respected ministers mean for the end of the line where I come from? Not a single project in the region of Dalmatia has been set up since the counties of Krka to Neretva were established, nor have you done a single project, nor have you done one. 100,000 people moved out of those parts, 100,000. Go to Knin and you'll see how many children there are, only in my Cetina region is less enrolled 2 classes this year. We've made a proposal, we've given our colleagues two times to give the Microsolars Act, half a billion kunas a year to warm up people with social difficulties and families. And for this subsidy that we.../incomprehensible/... for wind power billions and a half kuna per year, we could put microsolars on every public institution in five years, but microsolars that would boost the economy of Croatia. Each part of the sea is produced in the Republic of Croatia, and no part of the wind power plants is from Croatia, all is imports. And that's why we have big imports. Imagine what it would be like if we gave this incentive money, imagine what we give for wind power plants for microsolars. First of all, we would have independent families mainly in the undeveloped areas of Mrs. Jeckov, in undeveloped areas where you appear as a coalition partner of HDZ and SDSS in pre-election time, I live with these people daily. They have no water supply in their homes, no water supply in their homes, drink water, watch Krka, watch Cetina, have no water, and here is 600 million from HBOR, 600 million from the project. Did you see how far away it was from that wind power plant's houses? I was walking late last night towards Zagreb and looking at a wind power plant like a Christmas tree, a disaster as it looks. My men, on every hill in Zagora have now drawn new ones, they have taken up room for wind power plants. All former HEP directors are now suddenly the owners of numerous projects that HEP has paid for, the exploration of wind roses and the decreation of Croatian interests in this area. As far as the wind power plant of your signature is concerned, I think you'd like to explain it a little bit more in detail, not to return to 2013, 2013. It was then brought, then you were not received by Zoran Milanovic in the SDP on Mr Bernardic's speech, you were not answered at the time, few received by Andrej Plenkovic, according to the statements of the president of the Republic of Croatia, thought in which party, but that is less important. This is all about the energy interests of the Republic of Croatia. Mr. Coric, I would like to beg you on behalf of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and we, as legislators, resign. This isn't for you, you can't run one important resort from the club in Slovenia 9, you can't, you don't have that right towards us parliamentary representatives who have been elected, and especially towards the Croatian people. I think it's the most legitimate thing for you to give as long as you walk with insults towards us, I think that would be the most honest thing. You've threatened the bottom of Cetina, the Cetina province, you've compromised energy security, you're just absolutely doing nothing. The waste management centre has been asked to you Thank you very much. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11795	You don't want a fellow Boric anything? Okay. No, it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, he pulled his colleague, Boric, nothing. Let's move on with the debate. Now it's the club's turn. Excuse me, colleague Jeckov. For what?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11796	I've had a breach of the Rules of Procedure, I don't know maybe you haven't seen her.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11797	And we didn't, we didn't, I didn't register. No, no, sorry, okay, here you go, yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11798	Here, this esteemed colleague, Bulj, first I suggest that in the next elections you plead as a Serb if possible, then you go to the polls, and then I am convinced that the Cetina Serbs will be sure to vote for you, and the chief... the municipalities, well, but before that you must plead as a Serb. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] You plead as a Serb, so let's go to the election, and we'll see who people vote for.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11799	So what's the problem with being a Serb, is it a problem for you to be a Serb?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11800	Just a minute please, buddy, just a minute, just a minute, just...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11801	And you are a member of the ruling majority, you rule, you govern.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11802	...college Bull, what is this now?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11803	You're robbing those parts along with HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11804	First, my colleague, my colleague Jeckov, it wasn't a violation of the Rules of Procedure, and you deserve a warning, but please don't yell at this one from the scene, there are ways in which...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11805	And why, why is it insulting those national minorities to, in order to, I mean, what's the problem?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11806	Why did she insult them? She said she called you... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11807	She's part of you, she's part of the ruling majority, she insults people of the national minority... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11808	I didn't realize that she was insulting, I realized that, it was a compliment to you, she invited you among the national minorities.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11809	Oh, I know you're... An executive ceremony, but never mind, you're HDZ. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11810	I stick to the Rules of Procedure, I warn my colleague Jeckov, and I keep asking my colleague Bulja not to throw himself out of the bench, I stick to the Rules of Procedure, and please, my colleagues Vidović Kristo, do not turn on the microphone and throw it out of the bench because I am very careful and I am trying to be objective as much as possible. Here is a colleague, Vrkljan, on behalf of the House of Homeland Movement Representatives Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11811	Dear colleagues and colleagues, here we are already advanced in this debate. The fact that a minister has left us, a minister has left, saying that the executive government is watching and recognising what we are in the assembly. I would only remind that the assembly was ordered by the executive authority and that it was the executive authority that sought and received or did not receive the trust of the assembly. We have one more minister left, so I'll just, I'll just say a lot of things. First of all, I want to thank Caroline Kristo, and she's invested a lot of energy in the last few months, and it's not nice that your club president told her that someone wrote it. It's offensive sexist. It's an insult you shouldn't hear in a home like this, especially from someone who's the president of your club. In addition, Caroline Kristo in recent months has had more prominent performances that were followed by the media than all of you combined. So put yourself in the place where you belong. I'm going to look back here at a few facts that we mentioned here, but it would be good to say one more thing about it. One of the important facts, I don't see a left club running away from that, is that it's 2013. the contract signed, which was given the right to a particular group or individuals to access the construction of the wind power park, but also the fact that the decision was followed by a single contract which was written and by a law written in the Old Year, while the competent people, the wives of the house, made cakes, the spouses went to buy something for the New Year's welcome, some were very important to write this law, this decision giving the privileged individual the right to have the price of electricity 71 lipo above the usual market price. And even that would be acceptable if a few days after that the same ministry, the same minister, the same government did not make a decision that the price was almost 30% lower than the moment the decision was made. However, this is all that you in HDZ and your coalition partners are trying to defend, so you unanimously supported everyone who has come forward to the discussion you supported Caroline Kristo that a certain crime-supervised action has been made, but when all these actions and these contracts have been passed a few years behind your minister's extension and potential criminal actions and signed new contracts and these contracts have been very questionablely given by the legal, moral and financial justification for the fact that the entire EU, which we belong to today, is at that time reviewing all of its contracts that were related to the ecological sources of energy and based on this and Croatia is the only EU country that has not adopted any act or has not adopted any revision of the contract that lowers the price of electricity that is acceptable in the EU, and all these are the prices and financial resources that the taxpayers have to pay. The golden rule of every government is to protect its taxpayers and thus protect its country. It is deeply immoral and I am sorry that Minister Maric went to defend that 600 million kuna received a company that has no respect for work, construction, maintenance of power plants for electricity production, even heard someone say today that it is a man who trades cars, shamelessly if it is true. I can't believe I'm personally honored not to know him. But it is also a fact that Minister Maric had to take care that 600 million kuna has given for those projects for which HBOR should not give money. It is not a problem that Minister Maric has been easy to answer, so these are resources that we do not need to be deprived of, we have no problem, the problem is that HBOR should stimulate domestic production. I was wondering if it's possible that it's an individual case of such a view of politics and the whole system or it's a practice. So I'm just going to show you one example. HZO at a time when Croatia is in a difficult financial crisis and health care is due to 12 billion kuna, concluded a contract with insurance companies that secure from car liability and each year based on it, insurance houses invest or pay to HZZO, last year it was 48.5 million kuna, for 10,000 car accidents in which we had victims of individuals. That's 5,000 kuna for one damage. When you get to the hospital and you have pneumonia or you have a uro-infection and you get out of the hospital, your account is 10 to 12,000 kuna, and the HZZO accepts to be a 48 million kuna pauser, which says that insurance per million and a half car as much as there is in Croatia only an income of 220 million kuna per year, and HZZ0 pays 48 million kuna to HZZ0. The real difference is over 170 million kuna. Is it a fair contract and how that HZZO, despite such a difficult health crisis, has never sat down for 10 years and said that these 48 million kunas and 5,000 kunas per insurance company are shamelessly few. Based on this damage to HZZO in 10 years is 2.5 billion kuna. It is a pity that Minister Maric would only remind him, and he certainly knows that in the past year, companies without employees had income from 26 billion kuna. Gentlemen, in Croatia last year, companies without a single employee had an income of 26 billion kuna. By 2019, the revenues of such companies were 230 billion kuna and Minister Maric made a decision that reduced the profit tax from 20% to 10%. You know what that means? This means that the Croatian budget is damaged for 3 billion kuna, so much less money in the budget. When all of this is summed up by Krš-Paden, insurance houses according to HZZO and companies without employees, gentlemen dear, it is exactly 7 billion and 600 million kuna damages for the state budget. So now you all raise your hand, bring out your truth, but the numbers don't lie. If you had the honor, if you had the ideologies, if you had the light, you'd be fighting it yourself. All you have left is interest. [[Intruder: Thank you very much, time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11812	Thank you. Stay here, breach of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11813	Thank you very much. ... Thank you very much. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] He's been injured. 238, Mr. Vrkljan accused Mr. Bacic of sexually discriminating Mrs. Bačić. Vidovic Kristo, which is incorrect, he only pointed to the great ignorance of Mrs. Kristo. Vidovic Kristo, who she herself admitted did not know the difference between the price, which is 71 June, which is 53, which is 42 June, therefore. And also, he doesn't know part of environmental protection, so Mr. Bacic just pointed out that someone else was writing But it wasn't any discrimination on sexual grounds. [[Thank you very much. Thank you, thank you. Thank you very much.]] [[I can only say, Mr. Representative...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11814	You've got to pick up the Rules of Procedure and answer it. This means whether it fits the truth or does not match the truth, one claim is not a matter of art. And in 238, I have to give you a warning from Mr. Pavić. Here you go, Mr. Boric. No, I don't. Who? And I gave it to you. Unfortunately, it's not a matter of art. 238, no other article here, that, I didn't write it. Now in front of the Croatian Sovereigns' Club, Mr. Josip Boric, also injured the Rules of Procedure. Here you go. So I see Joseph.../incomprehensible... and Mary.../incomprehensible/... you have, you are right. You're right, I apologize.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11815	Thank you very much, Vice President. He's been injured. 238. Rules of Procedure. In fact, one part of the debate spoke out of the question about HZZO contracts that are harmful to the state, which is not at all the subject of today's agenda item. On the other hand, he was false in a way that insulted the minister in order to degrade him in a way, saying he extended the contract and thereby damaged the state. 2018 Decision on extended status For CEM she signed HERA as an independent [[Thank you very much.]] the regulatory agency, [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Not Minister Coric. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11816	Mr. Vrkljan also talked about it, but he talked about many other things, so I won't give a warning, but, uh, it didn't go off topic, in, he went a few times off topic, with that and we're going out a few times off topic over 10 minutes of speech. Here you go, Mr. Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11817	Thank you very much, Your Honor. A colleague, Vrkljan, was injured by an article. In 238, in the section of which it is said that he has disdained the MPs. The entire club here has demeaned us, in its own words, that we are men without honor, if you haven't heard correctly, the chairman, means we have any honor to support this false act of theirs, which is full of ignorance and untruth. Then we should keep our mouths shut and say it's because the gentleman of the Homeland Movement thinks we're men of no honor. Where do they have the honor of labeling us here? I think he deserved it. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11818	Thank you, thank you very much. We can't talk like that, Mr. Vrkljan. Uh, in this case, Mr. Boric is right. I'm not going to give anyone a warning right now, but Mr. Boric is right when he says he can't give a single one, and now I'm going to read by which article. 238, belittle or insult... just a moment, just a moment. No, there's no such thing. No, I don't. Disdain or insult the president or other MPs, there is also that. There's that, too. We'd better move on. Mr. Zekanovic, I'm sorry, please. On behalf of the promoter, Mr. Karolina Vidovic Kristo asked for a word. I didn't see it. There you go. Five minutes, yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11819	Mr. Zdravko Maric lied to the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian public in 2017 when he said he had nothing to do with Todorovic and Agrokor, and later he just announced that he was with him on behalf of the government in March 2017 and that they had negotiated. Now he's saying that HBOR's credit is not problematic, and not that it's problematic, he's against the law. HBOR as its name already tells it, it is known why it is intended, for the revitalisation, for investing in the Croatian economy, certainly not for the financing of failed projects that were criminally concluded on the basis of criminal contracts because there were no conditions for the conclusion of those projects. Furthermore, to speak here about that Milanovic began, so Plenkovic continued, why Dobrović did not, well ladies and gentlemen, move from Croatia because of this crime that is happening in Croatia, and instead of taking responsibility for breaking up the contract because you have to regain consciousness, the contract at the time of the conclusion did not have all the specifics that were needed, and here I am talking about the item that HDZ President and Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic expressed and confirmed in his document which he signed, that there was no valid building permit. Why are you putting yourself aside from the law fugitive, Mr. Bašić, and taking the burden of Croatian taxpayers? 2 billion HRK 200 million is not small money. Who gives you the right not to perform your duty under the law on the basis of childish transfers to others and third parties in the past, present or future? You are obliged to work in the interests of the Croatian state and the Croatian people, you are obliged to adhere to Croatian law and the Constitution as part of this you are obliged to give an insight into the entire documentation. What are you doing? Here you are harassing HS and the Croatian public, so you are our employees, so you are obliged to give us these documents. You're obliged to do your job transparently. No, you're patching around here, pulling out, saying things that aren't connected to this object, insulting, not insulting, playing jumpers while people are suffering because of your thieving. If they're not, prove it, let's get those documents checked out. What's the problem? Running away from the assembly, saying that others are guilty. That's not the answer. Interpletion is something called giving insight into the requested documentation and discussing existing contracts, business, government work. A price reduction obligation, you say it's not your responsibility. Of course it's your responsibility. If in all Europe, the state and government stick to what the market says, which is that the price has fallen, if in Spain 32, where is the right for you to give of our money 78 2020? You are referring to the DORH, the DORH is no reference, the DORH is a disgrace to the Croatian state. Mr. Bačić, on several occasions, and some of your colleagues, spoke about who was referenced to certain topics, so here he is now also gone, but I must say, he is not of course referenced to sources of renewable energy sources, but he was obviously referenced to keeping the black money of Sanader in the drawer. It's never been resolved either. We should stick to the law, gentlemen. A privileged loan, so we can't be run by you to come here and say, we tell you, we guarantee it, you have to trust us. No, gentlemen, we do not need to trust you, we are not chosen by the Croatian people to trust you or someone from the Croatian government or not. We have been chosen to oversee your work, to warn corruption, to protect Croatia's state budget, to protect Croatian national interests. I don't know how many times it takes to repeat it. There's no need to have a bad debate, and there's no need to hide the documents. If it's all right, put the documents in check, if it's not all right, then let's get the documents checked out. Contracts which are harmful, and which are harmful because they are concluded under absolutely unacceptable circumstances already at the beginning, and later, of course, because of the preferential prices that all are outside the European level. You're obliged to break them up, you, your president and your colleagues. 2 billion and 200 million kuna is stolen from Croatian citizens, and you say what? Trust us, but we won't give you the documents. You have to give them to me. And it's not good for you to handle this kind of philosophy that you started. Start doing business in a transparent manner.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11820	Thank you very much. You have one violation of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Rade Simičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11821	Thank you, Vice President HS. A colleague has been injured by the Rules of Procedure. 238, because it insults the institutions of the Croatian state and, among other things, the minister. And everything these institutions of the state do is wrong, all they say is actually the Holy Scriptures, at least that's how they translate it, and if they knew the information about Minister Maric why she didn't do it in 2007, and not in 2020, she says here? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11822	Thank you, too. Art. In 238 he spoke of insulting the Rules of Procedure, so I gave the right before Mr. Boric, unfortunately he does not talk about insulting the minister and insulting the institutions. We leave it to the speaker or speakers to defend their views and to answer for what he says, and I will not get into it now. Everyone has their rhetoric and I guess they can defend it and I guess they'll show they can defend it, I guess. Mr. Marko Pavić, replica. ... I don't know why I'm neglecting you for the second time today. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You're up above the reply to the replica you're up so, here you go, Mrs. Jelkovac. I apologize to you twice.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11823	There's nothing wrong with the Honorable Chairman. Thank you. Dear colleagues, you are repeatedly calling for crime, meaning that you have facts and evidence that the crime has been committed, and then I direct you, then you are primarily as a person, as a citizen, but above that, as a representative, you should report that crime to the competent institutions, if that is what you claim. However, what you are doing here all the time, you are calling the Government of Andrej Plenkovic and Minister Ćorić because it is your only focus, is the focus of you to devalue everything that this government and its ministers are doing, and you know very well and you stated it in your debate when it all started. And it started during the government of Mr Milanovic in 2013 when HEP then invested more than 20 million kunas through the programme, through the financing of the project, everything was left to the CEMP company. Then, in December, an authorisation was granted for a preferential price prior to the entry into force of the new Regulation, and later Mr Milanovic, and his government, also abolished the rules for the granting of bank guarantees, etc., etc. That's not what you're saying.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11824	Thank you. Time, thank you. Here's an answer, probably, no. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11825	Not only do you say so, I do, but so does your President Andrej Plenkovic. You're listed here now, so here's what you say to the competent institutions, and I'm telling you there's no home more than this. If you are inviting me to report these facts notorne that you have now presented to the competent institutions, first you should tell Mr Plenkovic because in this document which he delivered HS he presented exactly those facts. Why didn't you invite him to speak to the competent institutions? You know why? Because it is he who needs to interrupt those actions to strongly point out everything that they are criminal because if there are very strict conditions how to obtain a contract for preferential prices with HROTE, and they include a building permit, and President Plenkovic, Prime Minister Plenkovic says there was no valid building permit he was obliged to terminate the contract. He didn't do it, neither did his resolute minister. That's the problem. Give me all the contracts for insight.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11826	Now yes, Mr. Pavic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11827	Thank you very much, Your Honor. My colleague Vidović Kristo, so I'm really sorry, I appreciate your enthusiasm but what we see is ignorance. You do not know who appoints HERU and that she is independent and that the Assembly is authorized to act on her behalf. You don't know how the price is formed, you don't know what's the ransom price, you don't know the investor's right, and you don't know that Minister Coric has only extended the contract that they were entitled to, that the contract was concluded on 31.12.2013 for the SDP governments. So what we see here is great ignorance. You do not know that Minister Ćoric has, in his decision, reduced from 71 to 48 at the investor's request and that new technology has developed 3 MW pillars, that the total force is the same and that it has not affected the investor at all, and it has allowed less coverage of the territory and better environmental protection. So what we're seeing is only one great ignorance. [[Intruder: Thank you, time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11828	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11829	If you're talking about ignorance, and a very, very large number of MPs is the same thing as you say ignorance has shown, then isn't it the simplest thing to deny us all together by accepting interpretation and giving us insight into all contracts and all documents? You are not at the level that you can offend anyone in this home, at least you can't, but when you talk about ignorance and when you say it isn't justified why you don't give everyone an insight into the Croatian public and why you don't open up all the contracts, give them an insight into the Croatian Parliament and then you have to bear all the consequences resulting from something called harmful business and making harmful decisions. And otherwise in that same document where this ignorance you attribute to me shows your president, he said, among other things, that I heard it from several colleagues, that the total value is EUR 235 million. Whose assessment is that? An investor? Trust again? [[Intruder: Thank you, time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11830	Thanks a lot. Mrs. Kristo, no one at the level to insult anyone in this house.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11831	I agree, I agree.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11832	No one. Ma'am, Mr. Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11833	Thank you very much. Mrs. Kristo to my spears, you to the pastures, and that way we'll probably be out by nightfall. Look, you've written the very name of the government's interpretation of the work to determine possible illegal actions. You come out here all the time in a way that they've been against the law until now. In a way that you have now explained this article from your perspective. I asked you a few questions you don't know how to answer me. So whether it's equal for you to make 48 wind power plants or 71 such aggregates, is it equal to environmental protection, and then why you challenge the minister exactly because you're up for 71 as much as I've been counting on, you understand.../Intruder: You're counting wrong. We don't understand that.. one thing, but in that ignorance you don't know how to explain it, so I'm asking you. [[Well, yes, but we don't understand each other. We talk all the time...]] Would you make it as Caroline Kristo Vidovic 71 aggregate or 48, here's a simple question, that's all.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11834	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11835	You here are not in a position to ask me questions, nor am I obliged to answer you, you have spoken the line, and I will now also convince you of what you are saying. It's not ignorance, I'll tell you now. So, when you say that we talked about possible illegal actions in the interpellation text, we afterwards received a document from the Croatian Government which confirmed that they were very controversial actions, so it is now much easier to talk about although we still have no insight into all the contracts that we would confirm and the scale of these actions that are completely harmful to the Croatian nation and the Croatian state. I will return to EUR 235 million, which is mentioned here that the overall investment is supposed to be the value of this project. I repeat, who did this calculation? According to data from independent experts who are not even from Croatia, this project cannot miss EUR 160 million, which says that EUR 80 million is actually capital capital that we heard several times, a capital injection to complete that and such a project at all. I repeat, give us the documents for inspection. [[- Intruder. Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11836	Time, thank you. I have to intervene again, Mrs. Kristo, everyone in position in this assembly is asking questions, everyone. Everyone is in a position to ask questions Well, normally, but don't say it's not in a position to ask questions. [[Intruder: I right not to answer.]] You can't say that. [[Intruder: I agree.]] Mrs. Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11837	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues Vidovic Kristo, therefore, you listen to the topic all the time, is what we have had the opportunity to hear in the media how the ruling will defend itself. Let's tell the real truth, the project started in 2007, since it was 5 governments, and it's about the impellation of government work. Who represents the government? First among equals, Mr. Plenkovic. Whether it was expected for Mr Plenkovic to come here, we had the opportunity to see him in the assembly last week and on budget rebalancing and on all other topics. So it was to be expected that Prime Minister Plenovic would come here, in the introduction, he would say on behalf of the government those 10 minutes and hear the way he defends the government's work and decisions that were made. When there is no gentleman, I suppose you expected it in you, if there is no Mr. Plenkovic and he left Minister Ćorić here alone then it actually causes some sort of questionnaire above his head.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11838	Oop time, here you go, Mrs. Kristo, the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11839	Thank you very much. Yes, we expected, of course, the Prime Minister, Andrej Plenkovic, because there are simply too many amounts of extremely visible harmful actions per Croatian state and per Croatian nation. However, he is not here, but anyone who knows how to read and who knows the subject at least one small part can read out of the Croatian government's obviouss which he has just signed to read that everything that we've been searching for in the first place has been fully confirmed. This is the position, stretching and not giving the right of the HS which is guaranteed by the Constitution, and by leading the majority of the parliament's policies, I have 76 votes, so I do what I want, it is an insult to democracy, it is mocking Croatian citizens and that is why things happen in Croatia that we are the last in purchasing power, if not the last in the entire EU, and you are talking opposition to ignorance.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11840	Thank you very much. You don't have any more replicas. Now it is Mr. Hrvoje Zekanovic's turn in front of the Croatian Sovereigns' Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11841	Honorable Vice President HS, respected ministers, respected secretary of state, respected colleagues and colleagues. There's a song that says "The Winds of Dinara" is called, "The Winds of Dinara, "The Winds of the Wind would ask you something" and the wind would stop you know where, a little further from Dinara in Ervenik Municipality. It may not be important for the story, but let me say that Ervenik Municipality is one small municipality with almost 100% Serb population, all thousand inhabitants, undeveloped, once there before II. The world war had most Croatians, today it has almost 100% Serb population. It's not that important, but here's the cleanest thing for a few people to focus on what space it's about. So it's bordering the City of Knin. And this wind farm is located mostly in the Ervenik municipality, in the small part of the city of Knin. It's about 48 aggregates. For those of you who don't know what aggregates are, it's actually those big winds that produce electricity. I'm going to try to teach a little bit of the general public about WE, talk about whether it's better than 48 or 76, and what I know, the most profitable WE have proven today are those of 0.8 megawatts of power, they're the most profitable, not the ones that have five or six megawatts of power. Here is the key question who made the decision or who signed this one, I will say from my position, a bad contract for the Croatian state? So it was signed by Minister Vrdoljak in Milanovic's government at the time, so Vrdoljak is guilty. Is Wrettleman guilty? If it is not Vrdoljak, then it is the ones who came after him, which is Minister Coric. I think, and according to what I heard from Minister Maric and Minister Ćorić, Vrdoljak is guilty, respectively, of the CNS. But okay, now I'm hearing a little bit of that vote from the HDZ section of the assembly a little bit defending the coalition partner and a little bit of clarification, HDZ today has 76 hands and one of the hands is HNS's, right? One hand is HNS's colleague Stromar, right? It doesn't matter. And maybe it's very important. So this is either a criminal HNS if he's a criminal or he's a criminal now, HDZ? Well, I'd like to hear who's to blame for this. But what I wanted to hear from you earlier, Minister, you didn't answer me clearly, and I'm going to ask you a question so you can find a chance to answer me, is this a good deal or a bad deal? I think this is a bad deal. If the price we're going to pay is 78 lip per kilowatt, and the price on the market is 40 lip per kilowatt. Otherwise, some citizens understand what's going on. There is one agency, we call HROTE, a Croatian energy market operator, and now this HROTE is undermining this surplus price. So, HEP buys at that market price... 42 grand on kilowatts, and then HROTE comes and he gives to the energy producer, in this case to the owner of this rest. Who's HROT? Again the state, so it's direct state money where the price of wind energy is subsidized through that agency. Just so people know what it's all about. And we pay that kilowatt energy and sometimes twice as expensive as it is on the market because sometimes on the European market we can find it 35, 36 to 40 lips per kilowatt and that's what the fact is. Now, I am a sovereign, I love and I want Croatia to be energy sovereign, independent, but not at all costs. If we are to pay this energy sovereignty to billions of kunas annually, let us prefer to buy electricity on the European market as we buy both oil and gas and everything else. We don't have our gas and our oil, we buy it, so let's buy electricity if it's cheaper. It's a very important thing that was mentioned here today, and there's been said a lot of untruths from many colleagues, related to the famous ecological acceptability of wind energy. All those who were not in the evening in the night of Dalmatia shall take a walk or go for a ride in Dalmatia. In my Sibenik-Knin County, if I'm not mistaken, here's a colleague who can fix me, there are six installed wind parks if I'm not mistaken six, according to the Sibenik-Knin County's spatial plan there are 17 scheduled. Already now at night my county looks like a Christmas tree. We've got wee on every big hill. And the key information is and the key fact is that someone in the Croatian country, and most often it is not Croatian companies, but foreigners, with Croatian air produces electricity and per-privileged tariff because Croatians give them money for it and again that electricity sells to Croatians. So are we normal? I'm just asking if we're normal? Minister, here it is, you have a chance to change your policy a little bit now. I call you here from this place and encourage you to subsidize any kilowatts of electricity produced from wind power plants in the future to reroute all the money into solar power. Why not every Croatian family, especially in the coastal Croatia, for those who do not know I came to Sibenik this morning, to Sibenik, not only in Sibenik in all of Croatia, in our Dalmatia there is already 15 days of anti-cyclone, there is no cloud, don't think from the Zagreb perspective of the minister. So, we have the most sunny hours in Europe and thousands of Croatian families from Croatia, Dalmatia, we could live off the production of electricity on our roofs if the state only a fraction of the money that subsidized electricity from wind power plants turned into solar plants, but not. It's very important to point out the next thing, which is that Krsh-Paden is not the only wind power plant that has subsidized energy. All wind power plants have subsidized energy more or less, some more, some less, all of it. So let's not just talk about the one that's the biggest. Just a minute to hear the numbers. Which, today, has about 750 MW of wind power, this one has about 150, and the other 20 wind plants are also subsidized and no one tells us anything about them. And I think it's a bad business for Croatia, it's bad, there are no bills and Croatia loses billions of kunas there and really loses them. As regards environmental impact studies or nature, since I worked in that portfolio, I am responsible for saying that an investor can receive a positive study for any investment if he pays enough to the company that manufactures the study. That's my responsibility. That no investment has ever fallen on a study of environmental impact or nature. Unfortunately, it's not. Because if it were to respect the application of a particular nature environmental network, so here is more than half the space of Sibenik-Knin County on the ecological network, there could be no wind power plant, and they say okay, it's not harmful for bats, it's not harmful for birds, it's not harmful for anything and wind power plants are done because it's paid. There are companies who specialize in this and they will write what corresponds to the investor. Why? Because he paid, and then a colleague at the ministry says they're experts because it has 100 pages or 500 pages, but it has nothing to do with the brain. Or should we remove the ecological network or maybe another topic, why shouldn't these studies be directly done by the ministry? So, I would still do that major thesis since it's a little bit of time, once again. If this isn't your crime scene, and I'm going to leave one questionnaire here, it's Mr. Vrdoljak's crime scene. Just us, at this point you have to decide, is he to blame for this unfavorable contract and for many others because he still controls HEP, HNS still controls HEP, that you know or you will take over part of the guilt? And maybe you think here's what I don't agree with that this is a good business for Croatia, which it certainly isn't.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11842	We move on to, if on behalf of the applicant we have an objection, Mr. Željko Sacic will speak on behalf of the applicant. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11843	... Isn't that always on when I come? [[Speaker not enabled]] So, we had the opportunity to hear different aspects today and all the facts about determining above all political responsibility, responsible in the relevant ministries and government, and when we analyzed the entire chronology of events that goes far into 2013 and before all of us, who are lawyers, see that there are a whole series of consequential elements and who ultimately resulted years after the criminal application, let's not ignore that there is now, and insists on a criminal trial against Mrs. The Roman and this many others, ultimately the owner of the CEMP himself, on the same topic that we are discussing, or about, a reasonable doubt about the abuse of this case. Now, what is the issue with this other than the moral component that 31.12. day before the contract was concluded in the Government of Milanovic and Vrdoljak, which is enormously harmful to the Republic of Croatia? It is disputed that we had a certain minister, Mr. Dobrovic, who obviously couldn't resist this kind of pressure against the anti-zacon and against the law, but actually activated the model to make the study mandatory to the investor who was obviously a good dam for several months, but when you came, Mr. Ćorić, by leading the different elements of the whole process, you abolished the decision. Now, you have explained this among other needs of the profession and positive opinions, but most importantly throughout the story and for the Croatian public, and obviously for you the fact that you have said that the competent state attorney's office has given you the opinion that this contract or the whole process is not harmful to the Republic of Croatia and that you can, as such with Prime Minister Plenkovic, put him into office or the whole process to the benefit of investors. Now, the key question is both for the Croatian public and for us here, so we need to get a response from the competent state attorney, the civil administrative direction that he's already given you, is he exculpating you, you're aware that his letter exculpates you from criminal legal responsibility, but political responsibility exists, and now we need to know as Parliamentarians as the Croatian public, which led you to the State's Attorney's Office when that paper was written to you that you're certainly not going to end up in prison. I'm sure of it because you won't end up in jail because of that letter, but your associates will have problems. Now, we appeal to all who need to deliver first of all an explanation of the state's attorney of the Republic of Croatia why they, which led to this being a positive opinion that the Republic of Croatia will have no harm, although it is evident that billions are at stake and ultimately interested us after all that has now changed in the State's attorney's office that they made a new decision in the same factual state several months ago when they arrested Mrs Joseph Rimac. That's two decisions in college. Is it possible that the civil justice department in the State's Attorney's Office doesn't know what the criminal justice department is doing or there's some kind of heavy racomone legal, but in any case Mr. Tomislav Ćorić, except for political responsibility, you can sleep peacefully and you won't be held accountable.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11844	Stay here, Mr. Sacic, because you have, if you like, because you have this replica of Mr. Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11845	Dear fellow Sacic, here I am not able to say in the debate, so here I am now taking the opportunity, and I want you to answer me to hear your point of view. In the village of Danilo near Sibenik there is the same wind farm I do not know with how many aggregates and there are wind power plants that are approximately 60, 70 m from the house wind generators that are 100 meters high. And when the sun sets, I've been to these people, in front of their houses, especially in summer, they've always had that wind power plant making a shadow, or that means that the wind that's spinning bothers them all the time in their homes. People are desperate, people are desperate. Which study could allow a man 60, 70 meters from the house not once but more of them to set up wind power generators. Here's what I don't get. Who let that happen?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11846	A clear question and a rhetorical...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11847	Mr. Sacic, I must give you my word, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11848	And thank you, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. So the question other than what is rhetorical is deep-funded and extremely dramatic, and especially for the inhabitants of that aggregate. This, of course, when we analyse why ordinary citizens have to fulfil many such permits and conditions far more benign cases, so if you want to build certain of their buildings, either economically or economically or personally, then they have to meet these environmental conditions certified then it is quite unacceptable that in this case, but we get the outlines of what you said, at least in the case of Mrs. Rimac that it has helped to make such studies.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11849	Thank you very much. You have no other replicas. Mrs. Anka Mrak Taritash will speak on behalf of the IP, Smart and Voice Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11850	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Ministers, colleagues and colleagues, when you have an interpretation of the government's work on a subject of this interpretation, you can discuss with several aspects. In this particular case, it is the wind power plant and not any wind power plant, but the wind power plant Krpš-Padene. The debate on this can be from the aspect of environmental protection and the way we protect the environment, it can be from the aspect of spatial planning documents and what it means on a spatial scale in space, it can be from the aspect of economic impact, it can be from the aspect of actually helping investors or investment in the Republic and it can be from the aspect of respect for laws and regulations. So let me look back on some of these aspects. In order to be absolutely clear immediately what we are up to and what I advocate is to invest in green energy sources, to take care of environmental protection, to take care of energy independence and to use different sources of energy, so if you want all the reasons why it is so one of the most important reasons is geopolitical. But what's never good, it's never good for investors to be prescribed different rules of the game, that one game rules apply to one investor, and other rules of play apply to another investor, that we have laws and sublegal acts that we'll interpret in different ways, and we read that this is one of the reasons why this interpretation is just on the agenda because what's in the interpretation is stated, and that's suspected of corruption and crime is always suspected of it and it should be seriously discussed and certain conclusions should be drawn. Croatia is a member of the EU and the EU, as we all know well, has very ambitious plans that are summarised in the European Green Plan with the ultimate goal of achieving neutrality, climate neutrality by 2050. On a green plan, I referred several times to this home and said it was one of the chances that was almost never given to Croatia since it became an independent state. But if we treat investors and investment from case to case, then we'll miss that chance. What we need to send a message, which is that we are ready to use the funds that are available to us and that allow the transformation of our economy and energy to become part of this first climate neutral continent in the world. And Prime Minister Plenkovic often boasts that Croatia, that in Croatia 28% of the energy comes from renewable sources. I have only two information to state, so it speaks 28%, and according to Eurostat, Croatia still scored 23.4% in 2004 and 2015. 29 and the question is which one would be very happy to refer to the prime minister, does that mean we've stagnated and we've reduced? I don't suppose it does. Allow me to once again state that Plenkovic's government has not yet adopted and has become a parliamentary procedure, to send a low-carbon development strategy that should be the basis for plans to use renewable energy sources. Similarly, Prime Minister Plenkovic did not have as much to praise as possible, the European Commission recently recommended that the recovery plans, which will be financed primarily by European money, primarily include investment in renewable energy and digital technology sources and that the plans for delivery be made by 15 October. So, renewable energy sources, green technology, green development is from Minister Coric's portfolio sitting here with us today, and I guess he's listening to what we're saying. And we will have opportunities to talk about this in the assembly soon, because as we know, there is a debate on the confidence of Minister Coric. What I do because of my profession and what I've been dealing with my whole life is particularly interested in that space, space is fundamentally good. Once you made the wrong decision about using space, you made it forever. Once you've done damage in space, you've brought it forever. So, you can have better or worse houses in cities that you like more or less, but when it comes to large infrastructure processes, large infrastructure facilities, poorly planned roads, poorly planned wind power stations are bad decisions and bad use of space forever. And that's why it's never good for some regulations to go around, some regulations to be broken. The story with wind power plants Krš-Pajene started in 2007, then started with an environmental impact assessment. As a result, various contracts have been concluded, and this is in the government's explanation, the full and stated hodogram. The fact is, I always use one chance there in '94. and in '95, respectively. When I became more professionally involved in environmental protection, there were four people in the Republic of Croatia who were involved in environmental protection because environmental protection and environmental and nature relations were then, not so long ago looking at global scales were both in Europe and in the world different than they are today. Today you ministers know well how many people you have, so four people were in '94. employed by the Department of Environmental Protection at the time, Ministers you know well how many employees you have at the Ministry of the Ministry of Environmental Protection at other levels today. What am I trying to tell you? Never when it comes to protecting the environment you don't put something in stone, things change and it's good to change. So it is also about Krš-Pared Nature Protection Act, which was adopted in 2013. Several times he's changed, he's in effect today. Based on this, the Regulation on the assessment of acceptability for the ecological measure, the ecological network, I apologize, which is clearly prescribed for what it applies. One of the things that concerns and when it comes to the reconstruction of existing infrastructure. On several occasions, the number of wind power plants or wind generators was mentioned. Is it better to have 71 or 76 or 48 or 49, are they better to have them lower or higher? So who's going to answer that? So this will be answered in the process of acceptability of the procedure on the ecological network. Well, it's supposed to be an investor's interest. Is that it was an investor's interest, so the investor's interest is that the project is really seen from all sides, and we're interested in taking care of space protection, that we really respect all laws and sublaws. But this investor was obviously lucky. Maybe you should write at the entrance, at the entrance to the wind farm Krsh-Padene, an investor who's been lucky a few times. He was lucky for the first time when he signed a contract with December 31st one year, and the next day on January 1st, there were other conditions of the contract and that is simply what to say. The second time he was lucky when Minister Ćoric became minister, and then more so that would actually protect his investment if an assessment of the procedure was made in the area on the ecological network, it would be his interest to prove through that assessment that the procedure was acceptable. And the third time he had a recent happiness, and it was the financing of the project by the HBOR where during the two sessions they had taken from the decision not to finance the project until the second session to be financed by a huge amount. What we can't possibly allow is a mess in space and it's a fundamental message, and in particular we can't let a mess in space be the result of a mess, not to use a more difficult word in respecting procedures and laws. Once a mess or in space or in respect of procedures and the law becomes a rule, it's very difficult to correct. And what investors who want to invest in Croatia are following the work between the other and this assembly and the messages that have been sent through the Krš-Paden project, which is that depending on how the investor is to go towards different investors We're acting different. [[Intruder: Thank you, time.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11851	Thank you. Mr. Zekanovic will now speak on behalf of the promoter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11852	Dear Vice President, Your Honor, I need to say a few more things, and I'm going to do some things again. So here I was just before, in the replica of my colleague Sacic, pointing out a problem that shows in a bright way how badly these studies are done. So, only a few 10ths of a residential building, from home, from the home of the people of Danila near Sibenik, are wind power plants, which is a huge, huge problem for the residents of the village, a huge problem. I pointed out the problem of devastation of landscapes, one huge landscape damage in Dalmatia due to the numerous wind power plants set down below. I'm going to repeat here one more key thesis that is very important to emphasize. The CNS party made one salto of the dead last meeting of the Croatian Parliament when with five MPs it moved from opposition to ruling. Today they have only one representative, there is only a colleague, Štromar, but they are still dependent on by the Croatian government. If that's why you don't want to expose them or all these things that are due to lobbying, influence and signature ultimately Mr. Vrdoljak happened, then that sounds bad to me. So either it's HNS' fault or it's HDZ's fault. Don't keep your coalition partner at all costs. If they're guilty, they're guilty. Here I'm going to warn you a little bit about two more things. Out of the most positioned people in HEP, I have received information about this in more detail in which day, that gas is purchased when the price is, Croatia buys gas, far the lowest. So, there are gas price curves on the world and European market, I don't know exactly, the information is quite verified and the price can be 5 kuna, it can be 10 kuna, Croatia buys gas when the price is 9 kuna, and the curve is quite fixed and it is known from year to year as the gas price fluctuations go. Check this out. I mean HEP, is this a Croatian company, a state-owned company? [[Invader: It is Croatia.]] Check it out, I'm talking about HEP, I'm talking about HEP, which is the state-owned company that you're directly in charge of. And another question about the same subject since it concerns your portfolio, here is Minister Zmajlović who signed them for the Kukuriku coalition with a private tenant in Zagrebtower, so where your offices are 20 EUR per m2, which would mean 5,000 squares means simple mathematics, what is 5,000 x 20 a lot, is it EUR 100,000 a month, 100,000 a month, is it a fellow Pavic? It's a bit of a thought, I thought it was either a million or it's 100,000 I imagined a little, but it's not funny fellow Pavic. It is not funny for a colleague, Pavic, because the Croatian state has paid EUR 100,000 for years to a private entrepreneur for something that should not be paid, and you know what is most important, which is the market price of the office, for example. in Zagreb or in Zagreb, EUR 10 is not funny, and this is not funny. [[Intruder: Please do not have a dialogue.]] You've heard I extended that contract, which, here's what I'd like to hear from you, is that contract still EUR 20 or is now maybe 5, 8, 12, 14, here's what would lead to hearing. If you could not find here I will find you in Zagreb enough squares in 15 minutes at 10 EUR for your ministry. These are some new stories to be told and to be spoken of. Please encourage him if he is going to be a minister yet, and I believe that given the position of Andrej Plenkovic that he will be, some money currently investing in subsidising kilowatts of electricity from wind power plants should be directed to solar power plants or that any host in the coastal Croatia can set at the subsidized wind price of this solar panel. Let me just tell you for some 10 kW power that would mean, how much, if 10 hours of sunny has 100 means you'd have about 70 kuna a day, that household could come in if this was a subsidized price, and that's a lot.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11853	Thank you, time. You will probably be warned now by colleague Ahmetovic but the Kukuriku coalition, as far as I know, no longer exists. I hope there's a restaurant. Here you are, Mrs Ahmetovic, on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11854	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Respected ministers, respected colleagues and colleagues, the SDP Club will, of course, support the interpretation of the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia signed by 20 MPs on the procedures and decisions of the Ministry and other bodies of the state administration, and in connection with two contracts, the conclusion of an electricity buy-in contract, thus allowing the status of a privileged producer and the conclusion of a HABOR loan contract for investment. I would at first only point out as the government in its report in this interpretation has found itself, namely HERA is 2018. extended the deadline for obtaining the status of a privileged producer although it did not have to and it is very interesting. Namely, the basis of the Regulation on the status of the privileged electricity producer is prescribed to extend the period of validity of the previous solution for another 24 months if, before the expiry date of the previous decision, HERA has been delivered a publicly certified statement by the project holder that at least 50% of the planned investment costs have been spent in the construction of the production facility. Did anyone think the investor wouldn't make a statement that 50% of the investment was already invested in the project? What would be interesting to see and give was to determine the truthfulness of that statement. However, what I would like to draw particular attention to is a fact that unfortunately has not been highlighted by colleagues and fellow MPs who have signed this interpretation, at least not in sufficient scope. And this is that the minister is past his administration, past the environmental protection administration, past her opinion, cancel the ministry's solution and said that the main assessment of acceptability for the environmental network is not necessary. And he says he did it after consulting with the DORH. Why? Because after consulting with the DORH, he decided to prejudge the court's decision and it is very interesting, very interesting when it comes to energy projects that the court's decisions are prejudged by the ministry. Let's talk a little bit about major acceptance assessments for the ecological network, and we can also talk about environmental impact studies. These are very close documents and no one needs to teach us the difference. The environmental impact study, as well as the main assessments of acceptability for the ecological network, are a polygon of manipulation in Croatia, are not respected, regulations on the content of the study or on mandatory content and main evaluations, but also environmental impact studies are not respected. The ministries decide who will make them, who will be the maker, and these producers even publicly say that all their main grades, all their studies, have passed the commissions, and all the following. How do they know that? The ministry also appoints committees to accept such studies, such assessments. Therefore, they name the majority who must vote for such a major assessment or such a study without question at all saying that all the elements in that study or in the main assessment are respected. But what is most important in this main assessment is the fact, I repeat, that the minister has made a decision that such a major assessment of acceptability for the ecological network is not important and is not necessary. Watch out for miracles. Although the project is completely changing, you're talking about reducing the number of aggregates, but don't talk about the strength of these aggregates, you're talking about location, but don't talk about microlocation, you're talking about not being necessary because the assessment, the main assessment of acceptability, is not necessary because an environmental impact study has already been adopted, but you're not talking about having an environmental impact study for a completely different project. And why is it hiding, and why has the minister reached a solution that does not require a major assessment of the acceptability of the project for the environment? Because in this project, this affair was an important time. What time? The time that pointed out to the investor to maintain the status of a privileged electricity producer. There's a catch. The minister allowed the investor to maintain the status of a privileged producer. And that's what Hera helped him to do because she didn't have to extend, but she extended the deadline. Let's talk about Ivan Vrdoljak, we don't have a problem with that. Yes, Ivan Vrdoljak was in the government of Zoran Milanovic. It is true that HEP's daughter has concluded a contract with the investor to buy electricity at a huge price. That's right. But it is incorrect what the government stated in the report on the basis of the interpretation, which is attached to you with these materials, that the contracts were subsequently extended. The government of Andrej Plenkovic and Minister Coric have made it possible for Vrdoljak's contract to remain in force because the investor would have lost the status of a privileged producer if it had to make a major assessment of acceptability for the ecological network. You ministers know very well what the process of making such an assessment means. It implies making certain documents by respecting all the provisions of the Regulation on that document, including the presence of the public or public in that document, in parts of that document, including the preparation of public hearing reports, including the adoption and the whole procedure for the entry into force of such a document. And that investor had to do it would lose the status of a privileged producer. Now the minister had on the scale whether to protect the environment, protect the law and interests of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia or protect the benefit of a private investor, other people's production. And we know what he's decided. He did not opt for Croatian citizens, he did not decide to apply all possibilities to protect the laws of the Republic of Croatia, to protect the interests of the Republic of Croatia. Why doesn't that surprise me? And what is interesting is that it was decided just in 2017 when Ivan Vrdoljak became a supergeaton to the HDZ government, a coalition. I have to ask from this place if this was a loan to that coalition? And lately, or a few hours ago, we get another one, I'd say cherry on top of this affair, which is a letter from investors. A letter from investors defending the Croatian government, which says in Krš-Padene sentence, was made and released after nearly 17 years in quotes of peripetia and bargaining. The investor himself says it seemed more peri-peetal and favourable in this project, in this case, and as a defence, defends, defends the Croatian government. Interesting. Key question why is the government of the Republic of Croatia and the prime minister afraid of impelation? Why does the prime minister dictate, humiliate, mock the opposition when the opposition initiates the impeachment procedure? Why doesn't the Prime Minister want to shed light on this affair, why he's hiding documents, why he doesn't want to shed light on the role of his government in this affair? If it is crucial in 2012 and 2013, why don't you give out the documents, and you'll help yourself. Why are you hiding them? The SDP has no problem extracting all documents and giving all Croatian citizens what they signed and who did what. In fact, if you had done so before, we'd have gotten rid of people like Ivan Vrdoljak sooner. There you go. Interpletion, for your information and information to the prime minister, is a democratic instrument guaranteed by the Rules of Procedure of this Parliament, and we will certainly use it to open up discussions on the issue that is of interest to the Croatian public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11855	My colleagues and colleagues, Croatia has significant national resources such as energy. The fact that I come from the end is a great share of the energy of the Republic of Croatia. As far as hydroenergy is concerned, only Cetina gives 40% of the hydropower. So now here are private projects, harmful projects for the Republic of Croatia such as Krš-Padene, and not the only wind power plants, wind parks, are also, in this area and absolutely beyond exploitation in this area, absolutely nothing returns to that people in that area. Except for trying to introduce harmful projects. Of course, energy is an important resource, along with agricultural land that you do not protect, as it protects for example. Hungary and other countries. You do not protect an exclusive economic belt, too, our sea can be used as an energy potential for microsolars. Or solarian, as you wish. Speaking of wind power plants, I'm watching, here's a spatial plan... With this spatial plan, it's not just Krsh-Pared of his town of Sinj. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] On every hill it's covered, every hill of the wind power plant, every one. So when you come to Sinj in a few years, instead of the fortress of Sinj, the victory of the Turks in 715, you can watch the wind power plants on every hill. And even, when I look at how many possibilities we have, the sun's energy, but it doesn't suit the minister, means the law that gave the bridge of independent lists on microsolars, twice, didn't even give it here to present it on screen, and now look at what we have technique, you're not about microsolars, where we would solve meaning in these areas of independent family, independent families from energy would be, yet the incentive not to go, di go, and you would be for agriculture these people would live fantasticly in that area and that area is for, it should be the key to agriculture in that area of energy, but in Croatia's interest. However, it is not working because the fact that the minister at the time was a bridge did not sign that Krsh-Padene was being built. That's a fact. I spoke countless times from this pay phone, countless times, about a billion and a half subsidies, who knows who and what way and which way they go, which in 2015 the truth passed, however, was brought by Minister Vrdoljak who is your key partner, so counterpart Ahmetovic, the answer, yes. It was a pledge for the coalition, it was a pledge for the coalition because here Minister Vrdoljak swore he would not, God forbid, that he would go, no matter what, there he would not. In three minutes, Shakespeare solved it, in 12 seconds and godfathers. In 13 seconds, it's settled. We had what we had. Today we have Krsh-Paden who will cause huge damage to our citizens because the expensive energy is in this area. Imagine these families in the area, that we have installed microsolars in their amount for these incentives. So they would be energy independent, those families, which are hard to survive in that area, means they're hard to survive in that area, but the minister won't hear it. But I live in that area, I live, there's no young people, there's no cattle, there's nothing but wind power plants. And exploitation. That's why I repeat it again and I will repeat it to the end, Minister Coric is best at resigning. It's only causing damage and he's really the minister of environmental and energy threats. We're not able fellow MPs, we're like, we're basically below, we named them, the assembly is, only God is above the assembly, our assembly is on this country's Croatian life above all else. We need to protect our energy system. We can't do anything good with harmful projects, we can't decide at the club in Slovenia 9 there about energy policy, about Janaf, about all the important energy potentials and our system, we can't and we don't have the right to allow it, and we have to discuss it. So I'm the first to get the sun's microsolary, first, here, first, I'll raise my hand, give a proposal, microsolars for this incentive we give, harmful incentives for wind power plants to all people in our undeveloped areas for free installation. We will have independent families, families who will want to live in this area Is he not going to pay for the energy? [[Intruder: Time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11856	Now he's gonna...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11857	There's a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11858	Replica? Yeah, I'm sorry, I didn't see, okay, okay, I'll take it, I'll take it, I'll take it. Here you go, Mr. Grmo.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11859	Comrade Bull, I'm just going to intervene on this last one you brought out. So, I think our counties around 300 or 400,000 kunas give to help warm up the socially most vulnerable families. Imagine with that money how many microsolars we can install these people and make them energy-independent and self-sufficient, not every year giving them help, heating aid, and that's what we also suggested, but it won't, so it doesn't suit them, it's not there, it can't be there, it's not there. ... [[Include from video link not understood]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11860	What was that? What is it, that you can answer to, can, Yeah, by chance, okay. [[Intruder: It happened to turn on the TV]] Here you go, Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11861	Thank you very much. Comrade Grmo, that's exactly what we're proposing. So half a billion kunas, kunas making local self-governments, which is the regional growth of the county, which gives the state to warm up the socially endangered families. Only that money to invest it, only that money, would get rid of those people and be energy, those families independent. Al is the question whether the ruling policy of an independent energy family corresponds? Do they match? And we have potential, we have labour, we have solar production, everything would be produced in Croatia, and that would start construction, people would put microsolars on roofs just for that part of socially endangered families. So here, in undeveloped areas, I repeat, where Krsh-Padjane was found, where an offended representative of the SDSS was found, apparently more suited to this policy of oiled, oiled well-painted hand money [[/Intruder: Thank you, beautiful, weather.]] It's this policy of protecting people. [[Intruder: Time]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11862	Mr. Branko Bačić, HDZ Representatives' Club. Just wait a minute for him to wipe. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11863	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues. I must tell you that in my 17-year practice and work and coming to this assembly or as a minister and secretary of state or as a representative, I have not participated in a more bizarre, absurd debate than today. I haven't seen it yet, and I was the author of the impellation five years ago. same on the subject of the environment, I haven't seen a document that's illogical, that's unargumented, that's as empty as this one. So, we've been arguing all afternoon, even the government won't accept the interpretation. Why? So during the afternoon, the Homeland Movement or 20 Proposers, and I'm particularly happy with the SDP who didn't sign this interpretation, and now it's so patheticly unargumented to defend to that extent that Mr. Bauku was uncomfortable, so he bent down, he bent his eyes down while on behalf of the club, while in the name of the club he spoke on this subject, attacked the government, called the Minister, the Ministry, I don't know who, I haven't heard who yet, who in your opinion is responsible for that, say and argue, explain that. Since you have no arguments, you would be happy to write it and show who's guilty, you would be very happy to focus it on, emphasize it. You didn't write because you couldn't because you're wrong because you're cheating on the public and you don't have arguments, but from that shaking hill there was a mouse born, from the big words you bring down this interpretation, my dear applicants, at the request of the government to deliver the documents to you, ma'am. Ahmetović should know that as the chief and representative, which are available to you on the website. The documents you have been harassing the right side of the assembly here all afternoon with the worst possible dictionary and vocabulary because you are unable to visit HERA's website and see what HERA has said on this subject in the chart of all the events that have happened so far. You're talking about the ministry, and you can go to the ministry, the Ministry's pages and see all these documents. You can, as representatives, not only as representatives but as ordinary citizens and documents have, you don't need a government for that, you could get that from the Croatian energy market operator CROTE and HBOR. That's all you could get. And as representatives, you had an additional business opportunity to ask for this to be delivered to you by the Government and, behold, miracles. The government would have you on one simple request to be delivered to you, deliver it. And we're not delivering here because in the ugliest, worst possible way by looking for some documents, you're attacking the current government, the current minister. Now, we're not going to accept it as the government wrote, because if you had the will and will to get into this problem, then you should go into this problem in a way that you should have obtained these documents and then write a document in which you would prove what you intend to prove. The second thing, says counterpart Bulj earlier, that the Bridge did not allow the implementation of the Krš-Pađene two project, which, 16 years ago, when it was, at the end of 2016, when Minister Dobrović was. There's nothing to allow or not to be allowed. Because you don't know. ... Well, I do. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Because, because I know the procedure, I know the laws that define, fellow Bull. There were nine projects in that moment, and that's to Mrs. Devereaux. Ahmetovic and the SDP are not suspicious. 9 projects were signed from 31 October 2013 to 31 December 2013. Nine projects are prescribed. Signed, for wind power plants at a price of 71 lip per kilowatt hour of electricity delivered. Nine projects. Only three are realised within. Only three are realized. For others in accordance with the regulation, HERA extended the deadline within which they must implement their project. One of them or 3 are, these are 3 projects, when we talk about Krš-Padene, we're talking about 3 projects, 80, 42 and 20 megawatts of the wind, for that, for these 4 projects, HERA has given consent to extend, extend, because they have fulfilled it by the basis of the regulations. Why is the disputed Krsh-Pared? Why is the disputed Krsh-Paden, that's what I'm asking you from the Homeland Movement? Because it was designed, the project holder decided instead of 71 pillars in that location to place 48. And being on the same, almost on the same, 142-produced megawatt current. If he hadn't gone into accepting new technological opportunities, you wouldn't have had to go into this at all on one post instead of two kilowatts. And he shouldn't have asked anyone and he could have finished the project. So, the investor we're talking about as a state should be consistent with, tending to the investor, did, by following wind park construction technology, reduce the number of pillars from 71 to 48, and that's what your minister, your minister, defends. That's what he's defending, here's what you're boasting is that the minister is defending the introduction of new technologies into Croatia, to be a smaller number of pillars, to be a smaller coverage of that windman, and he's asking him to make an assessment of the main assessment of the project's acceptability on the ecological network. Now, this is the position of Mosto, Mr Dobrovic and these project applicants. The minister, in agreement with the State's Attorney's Office, makes a decision not to do so, the previous, main assessment, the main one, from and on, making a solution that is also available on the ministry's pages. And this is interesting, based on the Green Action lawsuit, on this solution of the ministry, the Administrative Court in Split confirms in the first degree and confirms the High Administrative Court in the second degree. And because of what was done, what was done and confirmed at all the court cases, you estimate that this government favors the investor. Therefore, there is a rule in the rule of law, and otherwise there is a Roman rule, since the Roman times of "Takta sant servanda", what has been signed, and it is signed during the SDP by respected MPs, what is signed during the SDP under the conditions of compliance with the rules, each Government is obliged to respect. And as a country based on the 3rd energy package, we have committed ourselves to increasing the consumption of electricity production in Croatia coming from renewable energy sources, we have been aware of that every day when I pay for electricity, and you and each of us, pay and compensation for renewable energy sources, and that, to cost the country, costs money. And we saw it, and even the government, then, Zoran Milanovic, who designed this whole package, as it had designed it, already reduced the price of one kilowatt from 71 to 53, and we later moved on to the system of premiums because we think, we're following what's going on in the world, and this minister suggested it. So it is in our interest, like the whole world, that as much energy as we can generate from renewable energy, respecting the law, respecting all the provisions, directives and laws on environmental and nature protection, respecting, and the contracts we have signed, this government and this minister in this case, for which the Interpellation has nothing to account for that he did something wrong. However, if something had been wrong in this procedure, it would have already had its own judicial epilogue, it would have had a judicial epilogue. But I want to tell you that out of nine of them who are at the same time this project was realized and only three, three ended in four years, and the others were also expanding. I've been expanding... [[Intruder: Thank you very much, time.]] and it can be easily and accessible [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[Intruder: Time, thank you.]] It was only realized in 2020. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11864	Thank you. We've got a lot of injuries to the Rules of Procedure, and I'm just gonna say this one thing and abuse. 238. Read it, this one will be sanctioned by warning, but I'm not saying anything in advance. Here you go, Mr. Bull is first.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11865	I give up after my colleague Bačić, the spokesperson for the beauty of reality, so they won't take my word for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11866	Thank you, thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Mrs. Devereaux. Dalia Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11867	There's been a breach of the Rules of Procedure. The 238th century 5, therefore, has been demeaning all day by the initiators of this interpretation by claiming that the documents requested by it could have been publicly available and publicly published, that we could have obtained them in various ways, which is simply not true. It is contracts that are very difficult to obtain from competent state authorities. And your statement that one minister has nothing to justify to anyone is the most embarrassing and pathetic statement a parliamentary representative has said in this HS.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11868	Thanks nice, weather, weather. I can't decide where they are, whether or not all the documents are available, so let's move on. Mrs. Devereaux. Ahmetovic... What? ... [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] Excuse me, Mr. Zurovec, I'm sorry. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11869	... [[Speaker not enabled]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11870	Okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11871	I'll talk to you later?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11872	Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11873	So here's the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Art. 238. Namely, it is not a problem to come up with documents that are publicly published, the problem is with these documents that are not publicly published. So the contract register and other things that can't be found mostly on the Internet, so we can't just be demeaned and insulted in that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11874	Thank you very much. I can't tell. It's the same answer as Mrs. Devereaux. Nuts. Mrs. Devereaux. Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11875	He's been injured. In 238th century 5th, Bačić demeans lawmakers by claiming that I, as chief of staff, as his main problem in my debate, should know that the documents are publicly available, says that the request for interpretation is therefore unfounded, bizarre, inadequately explained, alluding that MPs do not know how to read. Mr. Bacic, in a report by your government, the government is justified by all the allegations of the proposings, and nowhere does he say the argument is inadequate, so you don't respect your own government, you haven't read her report.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11876	Here, here, here, in this case I see a replica, in this case I see a replica, so I have to give you a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11877	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11878	Don't thank me, I do the things I have to do, not the things I want to do. Mr. Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11879	There was a minor injury in the 6th century, In 238, as regards the deviation from the general rules of conduct in the assembly, calling the interpretation bizarre, baseless, etc., so I'm neutral here because I'm not the author. But this was a very big criticism to the president of the assembly who put such a disastrous act on record time to debate the plenary session, and now we've been wasting our time here for the president of the assembly all afternoon on these bizarre and unfounded and catastrophic watches, so here you are, hurting the Rules of Procedure a little bit.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11880	It was, there was a lot of intense, there was, shh, please, please, there were a lot of heated debates, and this was a replica, you know, you agree, you'll agree with me if you call on, otherwise disrupt the order at the session, I think it's a little too much, right? And the good news is that you have a mild warning. Mr. Marko Pavić. [[Strengling from the bench: Al mild]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11881	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. In 238, several MPs insulted Mr. Bačić and unwarrantedly presented what he said. He made it clear that every citizen and parliamentary representative through the Institute's right to access information can come to those contracts. A list of all contracts and all documents is on the web, and through the Institute the right to access information and the Law on the right to access information is possible to those as well as any citizen of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11882	Thank you very much, very nice, and I have to tell you, I have to, I have to give you a mild reminder like Mr. Bauku, a reminder, I'm sorry, it was a replica, this was a replica, this was a replica. Let's go, let's go, let's go, Mr. Dario Zurovec will speak on behalf of the promoter.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11883	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11884	Shh, please, please, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11885	Here's the Honorable Minister, the Honorable Representatives. A few days ago a defense attorney stopped me and told me please just don't embarrass me in the assembly, don't insult anyone, if you're already criticizing some kind of politics and some kind of politics. So this is nothing personal to the minister, but it's literally the decisions that were practically implemented. I'm not really a favorite. I don't favor being attacked personally, but I'm interested in certain decisions. Namely, to dispute things from 2013-2014 apropo Minister Ćorić, perhaps this... And it's groundless, regardless of what a very harmful decision we pay practically 2 billion kuna in the wind. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here's an interesting comparison. But what is really disputed is that practically rejects the opinion of a HAOP by the commission he appointed, if I am not mistaken, the minister himself. I would like to hear some of these details, who these people are and what the expertise of this one commission is compared to one HAOP. Nothing personal, we'd really like to know. Also in the meantime, from 2017 to 2020. She was arrested today. Josepha Rimac. Her transcripts in the interviews mention Krsh-Paden, everything is mentioned, so who knows who's involved, we just want to know all the details. It is no problem to place a document showing that the ransom price is much higher than there is one Germany, one Spain or another country. But I also have certain things to mention. If it had no impact on the environment, it was because as far as the wind power plants are concerned, we have to look at these technical specifications. You have a recently set power plant of Siemens 8 MW, it's not a problem there itself because it's not about houses, it's one thing if we're talking about whether we're building 70 houses with gardens or doing 40 halls, so now we can figure out exactly what we're going to do. But as far as we're concerned there's a difference to height, there's a difference in the diameter of the rotor there's of course a difference to the blade itself. The larger rotor, the larger the blade is literally 150, 200 meters and you will hit the nature and birds well, bat habitats and others. Of course, there is a need to make an environmental impact assessment because that is where the environment is definitely touched by nature. As for these other things, looking through legal nature, that we can now talk about the institutions of this rule of law, but it should be pointed out that according to the 141 countries we are 140th by independence of the judiciary, even one Colombia 70th place ahead of us, one Cameroon, one Zambia, I think it's a real shame for this whole country and for all of us here who bring these laws. As far as I know, there is a Government of the Republic of Croatia who has a certain power and a minister regardless of who has a certain power. So if he has a certain power to make certain things stop or stop, he could have applied that institute. But we'll believe that for the next few days. As far as this interpretation is concerned, I don't see why someone's personally upset or why anyone's offended. I'm here against you, Mr. Bacic. I really don't have anything. I don't see why you're throwing certain things at us. We'll talk pleasantly, exchange arguments and see where we are and what we are. Personally, I think that these arguments are thick on the side of us thinking about the opposition, and if you have stronger arguments, calmly argue, give all the documents not only this part that is online because it's not even redeployed properly by dates, give one fine sequence and then we'll decide. I'm the first one to apologize if there's nothing wrong with it, but by this very action, it's just that there's not a lot of things that just don't make sense. And believe me, Josepha Rimac is certainly not under arrest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11886	Thank you, too. I'm obliged to tell you one thing, I won't give you notice, per article. In 240, I'm actually supposed to give you a warning, but I'm not going to give it up in advance, because you've repeated that sort of thing repeatedly in the Assembly is never a day of warning, but by art. The 240th notice will be given to the representative and when he calls, among other things, yes, to insult the birth and other groups of both the state and international organisations and their representatives. So it's a foreign country. We in this House have nothing against Zambia or against Cameroon which even they are worse than us, is that none of these countries. And I'm going to tell you another thing and it's that Costa Rica has 95% renewable energy, so let's not say that even one country has something that we don't have. All countries are, especially foreign countries are the subject of our respect. I'm sorry, don't get hurt by the Rules of Procedure. 240th read it. You can say but you know. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11887	I apologize, I didn't insult anyone by anyone's nationality or anything, I cited the facts. See graphs that you can see either according to EUROSTAT or any other relevant institution. I did not mention anyone but literally compared the Croatian judiciary with the judiciary of other countries, which makes us terrible. Here's nothing personal to you. If you feel offended by me, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11888	I don't feel offended, but I should give you a warning. .../Speakers speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11889	But our judiciary is a cancer wound.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11890	But you can't say it's even worse than these and those countries, you can't say it because it's an insult to those countries. Excuse me. Mr. Hajdukovic, you have a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11891	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Zurovec, you've been talking about some things I'd like to touch, which is mostly strategic planning that unfortunately doesn't exist with us, but this is another thing you've been saying, which is trust in institutions and effective justice. So, I don't know where you got that information, our prime minister if you didn't know he didn't believe in that information, they don't believe in any colleges on the right side of the assembly. In fact, if you didn't know we have a very effective judiciary in which people have a very high confidence, objects are rapidly resolved and in a very quality way. And that's why we have such a climate and an atmosphere of great trust in the institutions, so investors rush into huge numbers in Croatia. So, I don't know where you're pulling that data from, I think if you ask, I think that's what your HDZ colleague was talking about, because if you happen to have EUROSTAT sources, Deutsche says it's all non-essential sources and what kind of press is writing.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11892	Thank you very much. Ironies, I'm always welcome. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11893	I agree with you, sir, I don't know if it's my idea to read foreign media, foreign statistics, foreign data, professional literature, laws, regulations and everything else to communicate with people, I really don't know what my mind is. I also have to tell you that it's even worse for me that we are trying at local level to do everything in accordance with the law, for example, let construction sites come to us by accident to 30 different inspections, and to someone who, for example, is on the other side of the assembly, none. I really don't know what my head is, I really don't know, probably because I'm the hottest here, but I can't help it, it's just like that. I mean, I come, I show up like that, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11894	Good and self-irion is welcome. And now it's Mrs. Sandra Bencic who will perform on behalf of the club. What?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11895	We will wait for Minister Coric to return because there is currently no one from the government here.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11896	But if you're gonna wait, you're gonna lose the train, you better come. You come, because there's an institution. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11897	Thank you, Vice President. I note that I do not see the sense of interpreting the views of clubs on interpretation when no government representative is here and I believe it is, if it is not against the Rules of Procedure in any case pointless. But here I will say, I will continue on to my colleagues and talk a little bit about why the argument that Minister Ćoric and Mr Bacic use all the time to defend Minister Ćorić, and that argument, he did everything in accordance with the legal framework of the Republic of Croatia, which the Administrative Court also showed. This does not stand for the simple reason that part of the legal order of the Republic of Croatia is also European law. I hope so, Mr Bačić, you know, since 1.7.2013 of the European Directive as well as the regulations are part of the internal law of the Republic of Croatia. That this is how the European Commission proved to you when it initiated proceedings against Croatia in the 5th month of this year for breach of EU rules that I repeat part of the Croatian internal law, which is why the wind power plants Krš-Pađen and other wind power plants on the coast for which no impact study has been done on the Natura 2000 ecological network, so it writes nicely in large letters that the Administrative Court was wrong, that Minister Ćorić was wrong, that they were rightly professional services of the ministry that had warned him about this. So, the Nature Administration warned him exactly that the assessment must be done for the reason that we are otherwise violating the Habitats Directive, as the Environment Protection Agency has also told him, we must do an assessment because we are violating the Habitats and Others Directive, and another EU regulation. So, Mr. Coric was not there, I repeat, the European right is part of the internal law of the Republic of Croatia and you were obliged to respect the directive and apply it in making a decision on whether or not an impact assessment will be carried out on the ecological network. What I am wondering is whether you Minister Coric took the steps ordered by the European Commission to comply with the instructions for all wind power plants to carry out an impact study on the ecological network within 4 months. We still don't have that question answered. So, my colleagues have already said that the difference between the price we will pay from the budget, which will be paid by all citizens of the Republic of Croatia is around 1.9 billion kuna. I'll use the most conservative estimate that says 1.2 billion kuna. I'll go in favor of you, the most conservative estimate of 1.2 billion. Mr. Grmoya here asked how much of this money could we make a microsolar? We also have the information. For 1.2 billion, so to take a conservative assessment, 1.2 billion is enough to provide solar systems for the self-supply of 4 kW to the needs of the average household of 4 members of the supply of 30,000 households. So we could solarize the city for that money, a city the size of Rijeka or Osijek, just for that difference we're going to pay the CEMP from the budget. The city of Osijek or Rijeka could be energy-sufficient, and citizens could have their electricity free. When we talk about your crime, we must note that the whole affair involved Josip Rimac, who is directly with Director Jurekovic, who made several solutions to the buy-in last year, lobbyed for it and that it is actually amazing to imagine that there is no connection between the process of agreeing to the CEMP and the lobbying process for their project. You're party colleagues. You're in the same party. So when we talk about what's actually a shame, we're talking about 1.2 or 1.9 billion kuna that will be paid by our citizens, they're going to profit from a private investor, and we're going to lose all of us. And you see my view is that regardless of your motivation, whether this was about corruption, trade in influence, or whether it was not about that, it was about a bad decision, that the consequence was the same. The result is political responsibility because in one case you are corrupt it must prove the judiciary, in the other case you are unable to manage the resort because you are doing huge damage to financial citizens. 1.2 billion kuna taken from citizens' pockets is enough for me for financial responsibility. But that's not all. That's not all. The reason why we asked for the impeachment of Minister Ciocic is that it is not a total damage. So I'm going to say that apart from Krsh-Paden, he's one of the problems and guessing with MOL. Last year, the government of the Republic of Croatia decided on a proposal from your ministry to issue a permit for the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons for 6 research spaces in the continental part of Croatia. One of them has ESA6 won the company Accept Croatia. We wondered who this company was, so we saw it was a branch company registered in Hungary. By further research, we have seen in a consolidated annual MOL report that the company is on the list of MOL companies. MOL has 50% stakes in the company. I wonder what the logic is that the company that destroyed INU, the company that destroyed the processing and the two oil refineries in our country, which, even now, we reward by selling oil to it, which is the logic of giving the same company even more investigative space and concessions to nothing less than research and exploitation for a total of 30 years. In 2020, at the age of 30, that's 2050. This is the year of EU climate neutrality, until then you've given them a decision worth it, so it gives them the possibility of exploiting until 2050. Hungarian MOL. Let's move on. Let's just say, of course, that's not all. Let's go back to selling oil this year in January. This year, INA sold 265,000 tonnes of Croatian crude oil to MOL under conditions that were unfavourable, for which several independent oil consultants said that the damage caused by this sale was due to a price too low, because of the dynamics of sales that were not good and because of the charges of transport, meaning because of these three things, so we lost in our budget, i.e. the INA lost, and we lost, because, we will not pay taxes in Croatia for profit on that part, between 300 and 400 million kuna. Okay, let's go, 1.2 billion plus 300, 400 million. How long does it take? How long does it take? Why, why is this sale of oil in January so problematic? Because we didn't charge, we didn't charge the tariff extra for the price of oil, we didn't charge the transport cost to Sisak, even if it was hypothetical, but it's always charged because it's wrong for the customer to get it free and the worst part, we sold it to them in the tranches and gave it to go at 4 in 4 months, knowing that the oil market assessment is going to fall in the coming months, instead of selling them suddenly, we keep the price from January when it was far more favourable than that, say, in the 3rd or 4th month. That's where we lost another 300 or 400 million. Now you tell me, this data is available to everyone and everyone can see it. This data and the Hungarians knew very well, it seems that only we didn't know them or the minister didn't know, when they asked him in the paper what the price of oil was and how much he sold it, he didn't know the price. Nor did he know by which criteria and parameters it was sold. What's my key question is what's the price of one minister? How much does he have to cost the citizens in total to offer himself a resignation? Or for Prime Minister Plenkovic to give it to him? Prime Minister Plenkovic, who is not here today, and why isn't he here? Because, for example, this decision to grant concessions to MOL's oil research and exploitation company has been signed by who? Mr. Plenkovic, on Mr. Ćorić's proposal, but you know where the responsibility is. And Mr Plenkovic knows that all concession contracts, that sell oil, that all those things, as well as Krš-Paden, that cost us all these billions of kunas, or cost Croatian citizens, are not made without his blessing. They were made with very much his knowledge. That's why he's not here. That's why Minister Coric, perhaps not now, but in about 5.6 months when Prime Minister Plenkovic decides it is necessary, will really leave his post, but we would like him to leave because the facts are known And to bring the facts out here. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11898	Thank you very much. We have two injuries to the Rules of Procedure. You know the rules. First, ma'am. Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11899	Thank you very much, Your Honor. A colleague hurt her ankle. 238. The Rules of Procedure, arguing that this minister did not respect European directives, and in fact the European directives that are part of our legislative framework were just respected by this minister, as confirmed by the court, the Administrative Court and the High Court of Justice, who also confirmed the ministry's decision as valid on the basis of all [[Intruder: Thank you, time.]] the total standards of the Republic of Croatia. [[Intruder: Time, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11900	The truth is not a subject of art. 238, unfortunately. A mild reminder to you, too. Does anyone else want it or not? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Shimičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11901	I thank the vice president of HS, my colleague has been injured by an officer. In 238, mentioning Mrs. McNally. Joseph the Roman that she was arrested and even though she was arrested, that doesn't mean she's guilty. So, will the missus apologize to her if Mrs. Devereaux does? Josepha Rimac will be cleared of all charges. So she, she's accusing her of something that no one else knows yet, is she? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11902	Thank you very much. I have to give you a warning because it's not an item. 238, I'm doing what I have to do, I repeat, not what I want, and it's worth everything, to the left and to the right. It's not an item. 238, but the subject of my role is, now we're blowing this assembly. 19, who? What? Who? And there's more, I haven't seen. I didn't see it. Mr. Josip Boric, would you like some? Oh, no, no, no, no, I didn't say anything to you, but...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11903	I'm calling myself, the Honorable Chairman, to the article. 238, because it's Mrs. McNally. Bencic here sort of deviated from the rules of conduct threatening us with his arms all the time waving. She somehow blamed us for everything bad that happened with INA-MOL and this worst contract signed by the SDP government, and that's the difference. So INA-MOL contract, ma'am. Bencic, 2002, government of the SDP. Not us. Management rights, what are you looking at us for? Look at them. Objection, 2013, Mr. Bauk. Look at it, the highest tariff, 71 lipu That's the difference. [[Intruder: Thank you very much, time, time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11904	Time and warning. Mr. Tomašević.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11905	I think so. Chairman, I'm begging you, if we can get out of our club here, it means art. In 238, he was injured, with almost all today HDZ MPs who reported in violation of the Rules of Procedure, because neither, they spoke of false things, said they were being blamed, but did not warn which exact article. In 238, he was injured, which abused the breach of the Rules of Procedure, which is clearly prescribed in Art. 238. I, we, we keep waiting our turn to speak on behalf of the club, to speak individually, and colleagues from HDZ They break the Rules of Procedure all the time, and they get the same warning and nobody gets anything. [[/Intruder: Thank you, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11906	Thank you, Mr. Tomasevic. I've given everyone a heads-up, and unfortunately I have to give it to you, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11907	As you can give me, I've quoted an article. 238, and I warn others to break the Rules of Procedure. Did I say something, so did I say something about the debate?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11908	No, it's not an art class. In 238, what you are, and I gave everyone a warning. Come on, Mr. Tomašević, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11909	How can I get a warning if I warn others and say nothing meaningful?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11910	Please, nice. Mrs. Devereaux. Sandra, Sandra Bencic. A microphone.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11911	Yeah, I'm sorry. Injury. The 238th century 5. So, a colleague from HDZ who was insultingly calling me, so I'm telling the truth because I said that Mr. Ćorić did not exercise European law, that's not what I told you, that's what the European Commission told you when she initiated the infringement of the law for disrespect in the Krš-Paden case, among other things, disrespecting the Habitats Directive. So, I'm not telling you, the European Commission is telling you, so you can't By calling me [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]] That I'm lying because your Mr. Coric doesn't know [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]] that European law is part of internal law. [[Intruder: Thank you very much, time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11912	Time and, of course, you can assume the warning is that because it was a replica too, but the ventilation up to 19 hours and 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11913	Dear colleagues and colleagues can continue, we have now opened up a little bit of this, and now, in the name of the promoter, the respected representative Miro Bulj will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11914	Here at the end of the clubs of the presentation, I think the minister came to one conclusion that he really didn't have the support and trust of most parliamentary representatives because most clubs from most of them didn't show up or hide somewhere here, I didn't see them, I didn't see coalition partners, I thought the clubs would be obvious and give their position, that the SDSS would come out here and say that the Krsh-Padens were responding to us and that would be legal and that would be correct. However, there is no SDSS of your coalition partner, but I see no other, not even the national minority, as far as I've seen, there are no other independent representatives from national minorities, and even those who support the Reformists, the HNS has no one, which means that at the moment HDZ is alone. Apparently, Prime Minister Plenkovic has left the minister to himself, now the minister of how you will sail... I don't know, I'm not going to get into it, but Krsh-Pade is a harmful project for the Republic of Croatia, a harmful project for that area, we just didn't get anything from it, so it'd be better if you had the incentives and the money you've been investing in all the other energy sources we have. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Let me just say, note, we didn't mention it, the Republic uses solar energy, and we're rich in the sun, 0.35% while the EU 5%, even Finland, Finland, is one Finland that doesn't know when the day is, when night is, such is the time, is more useful of solar energy than the Republic. So we have an energy potential, we have solar energy. And I have an example, in my Sinj, in the village of Karakasica, a village next to mine, where the man who built one facility that he invested on in 2014, or 2013, 60, 30 kW set up, 30 kW to put this solar power plant on his roof, is a business facility, paid 60,000 EUR and not in these 7-8. He can't go to Hera's when you give a boost or anyone else doesn't, he can't get those incentives. The man invested when it was signed without incentive, meaning his money and with the fact that the man of course was the whole war, the Homeland War, the 100% disability of the Homeland War, I think they can name him, most of the people who were in the Homeland War know it and he can't get it. However, these giants get a free megawatt, megaquilated, so we have the possibility of developing the Republic of Croatia. I believe politics will open up towards renewable energy sources, but what the minister did with Krsh-Paden is obviously a disaster. Dal was there the influence of the club what the minister told me you were never in any club, so if it was hard for me to hear what I wasn't in the club, they gave it influence, that's how, in a society like that, maybe you're not a bad man, when you fall into the wrong society, the old world is a river, and under that influence you just unwittingly sign a bad decision. It's a bad decision, you can't object to others, nor Minister Dobrovic, who is even my former party, in the same club we went down here, we've defended interests together as much as we could, but here's the fact that these people around him when you're making fun of me, here's Miro Bulj is an expert, I'm not an expert, I'm from Suvaca near Sinj, proud of it, but I'll always get more votes from you than you get, let's be minister, at least 5-6 times. I don't know why or what that is, but that's a fact. However, this is a serious matter and a serious topic. It is also mentioned here drilling, research, research fields in the region of Croatia, mainly in karst area, 8 counties of karst areas, these are Adriatic counties, Gorski kotar and valley of my Dalmatia. I declare the Dinara a park of nature, and you give permission to MOL. The INA that's under MOL with your promise to return it to the INA... You're giving the Dinar drill, and at the same time you're giving the Nature Park Declaration Act. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, there you are a confusing, contradictory tree simply or the Nature Park Dinara and the breach will be protected, our water resource as the most important potential or you will allow and drilling this research field. The same thing is done on the Adriatic. And it won't be our results, so research, will be the results of the MOL and will be on the Adriatic, not to mention the results of the Canadian companies, but most of them MOL. So, Minister, I said that you're more of a environmental minister, I listed the reasons and the waste, the closure of the January dump than Vrgorakkko, that's mine, that's my position. Thank you very much. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11915	We have, here is a replica of the respected representative Kujundzic, who will contact us from a distance, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11916	Thank you, Chairman. Here's what I'd like to say to Mr. Radin. As I watched him through small screens as he skillfully dealt with those who violate the Rules of Procedure, he reminded me, methodologically speaking, of James Bond from the film "Dr. No’. Comrade Bulj, if we forget the Krsh-Pared affair in front of our eyes, we're left with all the affairs in recent years, all the millions, bags and coffins from all the governments, not just these. Given all the closed drives, bankruptcy procedures, all the bricks written by names in bus stations, and if I didn't count, I would at least be silent, silent from some form of respect to those who stayed and thought with their heads, not trying to defend what was in 100 years. You can't actually defend a life of defense. So for years no one knew anything in Croatia, no one knew about anyone, no one knew anything, other words on the part seemed to me some form of present collective amnesia about the past. We are blessed in a paper and ideal Croatia where citizens live more than solidly than their work, and finally Thank you. [[Thank you, thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11917	Thank you very much. Here's a response from the esteemed representative of Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11918	Greetings to the Land of Imot. So this is what I would say to my colleague Kujundzic that simply who lives in these areas like you and I, you in the property section, me in the Cetina region, in the Dalmatian Zagora, and really when you listen to these stories here in the assembly under these lights, it's unreal. I'm sorry to have to say this, but we have to talk hope, give people hope to come back, mostly those evicted in the last 4-5 years, 10-15, and that's 500,000 people. Now I repeat, just from, from Krka to Neretva, these projects are being pushed and imposed, and these people have nothing to do with the laws being done in the interests of man but in the interest of capital, only capital. That's where we didn't find the best ratio. From these areas, these very areas, 100,000 people have gone from Krka to Neretva, and we are still just exploiting harmful projects. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11919	And now, on behalf of the government, the Honored Minister Tomislav Coric will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11920	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. ... [[Speaker not enabled]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11921	Here I am now involved.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11922	Okay? Let me now, at the end of the presentation of clubs, briefly address myself on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, refer to some of the thesis presented here, but in fact to the facts of which, in the context of this debate, it is simply not allowed to escape and cannot escape. Responsibilities for the question of the Krš-Paden project or government responsibility for projects agreed between October and December 2013 Can't be asked today or not by the government of Mr. Plenkovic. This responsibility may be sought in some other places and other addresses. However, the government of Mr. Plenkovic is not the one. In response to the interpretation or report by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to HS, clearly indicated places where all relevant documents can be found through links, we are talking about solutions from the Ministry of Environment and Energy at an earlier stage, today the Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development, as well as the HERA's solution. As far as contracts signed between HROT and individual contractors are concerned, however, it is easy to gain insight. The right to access information is the inalienable right of every Croatian citizen and citizen, as well as of a parliamentary representative. That's exactly why I'd like to warn you of the manipulation of Mrs. Devereaux. Vidovic Kristo, who is here on several occasions during each of his steps, made it clear that someone is hiding something from these documents. No, the reports you have on your desks clearly indicate places where the documents of the Ministry or HERA documents can be found. It is also clearly known address where CROTE documents can be found. As regards the extension of the contract in February 2018, who has, on several occasions, been troubled here, the government of the Republic of Croatia has nothing to do with this extension of the contract. The laws, Rules of Procedure, clearly indicate that this contract is extended and a decision is taken by a regulatory agency which has the status of an independent body in the Republic of Croatia, such as the CNB, such as the HANFA, for example in some other resolutions and respected parliamentary representatives and MPs, are certainly aware of that. What I would certainly like to emphasise is the fact that the annulment of Mr Dobrović's March 2017 solution is problematic here. and directly puts me in charge of it. So once again I'm going to point out, I won't and I've never run away from responsibility for what I've done. So, I here again responsibly argue that this annulment of the solution occurred after multiple consultations with the state's attorney's office as the only measuring institution that we could consult with. What if that solution hadn't been annulled? Ma'am. Bencic, you answer that question yourself. Would an investor with all valid permits finish his investment towards old technology that would normally do more harm to the environment? Yeah, yeah, Yeah, [[Clip intrusion: No]] Yes, yes, because he didn't have to make any more documents and you know it well, but you manipulate the public on many occasions during your presentation and in fact bring us some crazy figures into the situation that the citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia think their 2017 solution, from July 2017, alienated 100, million, 100 million, billion, two, five, 50 billion kuna, that's not true. [[Clip intrusion: No]] All wind power plants that are being implemented or realised at the moment are signed in the time before that. And you know very well, everyone knows these contracts simply have to be respected. What you do not know, or do not want to know, is that we have prepared a system in which such projects are encouraged, and there are the solarists of Mr. Bulj and all the technologies that exist in Croatia, so to speak. The premium system that has been prepared by our government, the Ministry of Environment and Energy and that, if all is well, in the coming months, they will live through auctions. That's true. However, this truth clearly in the context of today’s debate is a little painful. This truth especially hurts those who wonder what the minister's price is. I don't know the minister's price, but the price of my face. Believe me, it doesn't exist. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11923	Thank you very much, we have more replicas, the first respected representative of Sandra Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11924	Dear Minister, here's a specific question about what you've been saying. So, did you know in 2017 that the Habitats Directive is part of the internal law of the Republic of Croatia? Did you know that this directive requires you to carry out an impact assessment on the ecological network and, nevertheless, annul the solution that has just been requested, and is that clear to you now that you have received an infringement of your right from the European Commission? And please answer, what have you done in the 4th month since you were delivered to you and when you've been given that deadline, made a violation of the law of the Habitats Directive, and is now going to have to do for all wind power plants an impact assessment on the ecological network, including Krsh-Pade, and I'm interested if we don't do how much more that will cost us so that we can have a final sum somewhere above 2 billion, how much do your wrong decisions cost us?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11925	Dear Minister Coric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11926	Ma'am. Bencic, I'm sure you've already calculated that given that consulting moment that you've been expressing during your speech here, I'm sure you know about it. But probably given the fact that you know a lot of information in this area, you know that I'm not really an environmental expert, nor have I ever imagined that I am. People who work at the ministry should do that.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11927	And that's what they told you?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11928	And in the context of what you said, please turn off the microphone if you can, and in the context of what you said, the Ministry of Environment and Energy, after which the Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development is in continuous contact with the European Commission and we are correspondence on this issue. And there is no need to prejudge potential punishments, nor any of the moments that you of course are here, and for the purpose of your even stronger exposure and gesticulation, you were able to do.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11929	The next replica of respected MPs Dalia Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11930	Minister, the only one who manipulates Croatian public today is you, your government and your parliamentary majority, starting with the documents you were obliged to deliver HS on the basis of an article. 81. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia which prescribes that HS is the body that oversees the work of the government, as well as the supervision of all other institutions that place their responsibility to this body. Do not refer to documentation that is allegedly publicly available, regardless of whether it is or not, and in particular it is not, you were obliged to honour the obligation to this body in order to determine whether there have been any benefits to a private investor, in one corruption affair we will wait probably 10 years. What's our responsibility is that harmful contracts, and it's obvious that these are harmful contracts, let's try to clear up now. And one more thing, if you are not up to the resistor who also has in his work environmental protection, resign This statement that you are not an expert in this area... [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11931	Dear Minister Coric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11932	Let me answer the first part of your question first. So the right to access information allows us to get all documents that are not listed or linked to the document that you received through our report to them immediately. And I don't see any problem. As for this second moment, so the area of environmental and energy protection as you know there is a whole series of administrations, today the Ministry of Sustainable Development and Economy is also 11 of them plus some independent ones. It is impossible to find an expert who is able to cover all these areas with its expertise, and that is why there are assistants, tomorrow directors of these administrations. But when I hear how much you're an expert in all these areas, I must admit that I'm sorry that you didn't apply to the competition and applied to one of those administrations to run it, any of them because your expertise is unquestionable.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11933	The next is a replica of the respected representative Tomislav Tomasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11934	... the vault you're running. [[Specially enabled.]] However, you have experts at Nature Protection, and these experts have made it clear to you in early 2017 that you also need to make an environmental impact assessment and a major impact assessment on the ecological network. The city of Knin, by chance, said it had no environmental impact, which is all in your July 2017 solution. Based on these experts from the Croatian Environment and Nature Protection Agency and your current ministry made the first solution in March. You changed him in July. So the investor could complain, sue the Administration of the Court on the basis of a March solution if he was not satisfied with it, Croatia could see what the court would decide. You decided to go preventively thinking that Croatia would lose. Do you have the DORH documents that went through the manual to see what written documents you've made that decision is going directly against the experts in your ministry?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11935	Thank you very much. Dear Minister Coric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11936	Mr Tomasevic, first of all, will correct the incorrect allegations, so part of nature protection, and Minister Dobrović did not make a solution to the need for environmental impact assessment, so he did not make the solution. They didn't tell me anything in January 2017 because in January 2017 I was not the Minister of Environmental Protection, I was the Minister of Labour. .../Speakers speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11937	I remind you not to speak from the bench. Next time you'll get a reminder by taking away the words. .../Speakers speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11938	I entered the ministry in June, and given the state I encountered, consultations with the DORH continued. No. The DORH was not written in this case, and that is why I am standing at the disposal of both the DORH and all the other institutions of this country today and I will stand at their disposal every day for their questions. So our consultations took place in a wide circle of my associates with the gentlemen or ladies of the deputy state attorneys of Mr. Cvitan at the end and I also personally participated in one... /The speakers speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11939	Thank you very much. The next replica is respected MPs Mirela Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11940	Your Honor, Minister Corric. You say responsibility was created in 2012 and 2013 and should be sought at another address. Let's go look for her together. Please suggest to your boss, Andrej Plenkovic, that all these documents required by the impelation to deliver, let's show Ivan Vrdoljak together, let's show together irresponsibility, amorality, corruption of the CNS, or you may not. Imagine the title in the media Ćorić and Ahmetovic together showed corruption of HNS and Vrdoljak. Not all politicians are the same, we don't have to generalize. It's not a HDZ chip. Wouldn't that be wonderful? Let's work together and prevent all corruption in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11941	Dear Minister Coric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11942	Thank you very much Mrs Ahmetovic for this idea and proposal, I'm not sure we can do it together. Some of the addresses or names you have left out in your presentation, but together we can welcome LNG on the island of Krk during the day, I will be glad to do so together future Croatia becomes energy independent, Mr Bulj, a very handsome word that will become a reality from the beginning of next year and that is something that should not be disturbed by the mind. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11943	Representative Ahmetovic has committed a breach of the Rules of Procedure. What was hurt in the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11944	Minister Djoric injured an art. 238. Insulting the Rules of Procedure, or falsely speaking. We cannot meet the LNG terminal together because Prime Minister Plenkovic dares not come to Omisalj to welcome him. And I'd only come to his call if he dares to come to Omishal I'll be happy to see that scene too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11945	So this is how you know it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, that's your second warning. For the second warning, I should have given you a reminder by taking away your words. I've never done that to anyone before, and from now on every other reminder will be taken away by word, every third in accordance with article. 240th century 2. Subtraction of words until the end of the debate on this subject, only so that we all know the rules of the game because it says so in the Rules of Procedure. Okay? Okay. We still have another replica of the esteemed representative of Angel Strike.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11946	Thank you, Vice President HS. My colleagues and colleagues, Minister. Numbers don't lie, dates don't lie to anyone who wants to know and understands clearly who's responsible or responsible for what. However, 151 MPs are elected in HS, only 13% of MPs were willing to sign the report out of the total number. If we take only opposition representatives only 26% or every 4th opposition representative was willing to sign this article. So much for the seriousness of this whole subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11947	The answer of the respected Minister Coric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11948	Dear Representative, thank you very much for this finding and in fact it shows how much of the idea that Mr. Plenkovic's government is seeking responsibility for the failures or inaction of some other governments or other ministers, as far as she has no basis. I'm glad you said that. And once again I will point out, our actions, the moment that binds to our government in July 2017 was the only correct one, regardless of what is happening in all possible ways to discredit the institutions of the Republic of Croatia and finally everything that happens in these institutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11949	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11950	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues. I can't agree with any of the claims I've heard from this pay phone. In fact, the interpretation of whatever the subject, including this one, actually serves to distract the Croatian public on some important issues and at least on issues and topics that a part of the MPs consider important to the Croatian public. This is definitely one of those topics and call it the interpretation of any, even this stupid, stupid, that you've never seen anything worse in your life at least incorrectly, without saying rudely. Why? Because every place here, colleagues and colleagues, on either side of the assembly represents a number of votes, represents a certain part of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and I believe that many would like to hear much more about this topic and other topics that we will potential through future interpretations. What exactly is the issue here, at least for me? First of all, the disputed relationship with investors, entrepreneurs, whatever you want to call them because of what I heard here, read, studied, eventually it all comes down to that old Croatian story that everyone before the law is equal, but that there are more equal than others. And that's exactly what happened here. How? I don't want to list the whole thing again, the whole chronology of events, procedures, changes, it's already mentioned before me, so I don't want to waste any time. And also what's important here and what's important is to underline and I underline it in a lot of my discussions, it's a lack of strategic planning. We, as well as the Union, have set ourselves up for renewable energy sources. The Union has very ambitious plans as regards the transition to green or renewable energy or to be carbon neutral, carbon neutral, until 2050. I have already asked questions about what this means for the Croatian budget, for our economy, I have not received the answer. But we also need to know that there are several kinds of renewable energy. So, as there is wind energy, there is a lot of renewable energy sources that we need to decide about from the sun, or from the sunlight, from which it was, bio-waste, etc. Have we decided on one of them, we have done a study that is best and most acceptable for Croatia, which is the least harmful to the environment, space, etc., of course we are not. And that's one of the questions that should definitely be potentiated by this interpretation. And what I'm not really not, I'm not going to say worry, but it's confusing, what if ruling claims that everything in the letter of the law, if it's all clear here, if it's all Zoran Milanović and Michael Zmajlović, then what's the fear of this interpretation, then what's the fear of discussion in HS, then what's the fear of publishing certain data? I don't really see him. So if this mean Milanovic and Zmajlovic were to blame and if their colleagues on the right side of the assembly knew it, so why didn't they ask for an interpretation of this? So why didn't they potential that debate? So why didn't we talk about it when maybe that was the time? Or their iniquities, at least it leads me to the conclusion that there was no irregularities, that the names mentioned here, not to say in vain, did not play the role that is now being attributed to them. Then what is the role of the sinless government of Andrej Plenkovic? Having finished off this pay phone, one of the ministers told us last week that we ourselves don't know what kind of government we have, that we don't know what we have in Andrej Plenkovic and the HDZ government. I'd say we know very well, if we had the government of KRADEZE, not HDZ. And this is not the only example of the bad lord of the KRADEZE government, there are very many, as many failures, inactions, conjectures, etc., we have had opportunities to look at, not only in these few months of this government, but also in the 4th century. Last night. How many ministers, now asking you a rhetorical question, have left the last government because of suspicion of corrupt acts or conjecture? Very, very many colleagues and colleagues. So, the government of Andrej Plenkovic at least cannot be absorbed from everything bad that is happening, especially if they did not, and they knew something bad was happening. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11951	Thank you very much. Comrade Hajduković, you have injured an art. In 238, insulting one party, I'm giving you a warning just as much as I would give a warning to anyone in HDZ that it offends the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11952	Thank you very much. I'm proud to accept it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11953	Thank you. We have this number one replica, the first respected representative of Angel Strike.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11954	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Hajdukovic, there's no fear, you can see that it's nice to discuss without anxiety except that there's anxiety in your ranks. You say this is a good subject, grateful, that it should be debated, but I don't see your signature in submission. So neither you nor anyone in the SDP signed it in submission, so you can interpret it a little bit? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11955	Dear Representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11956	... An interpretative colleague, so I didn't get it signed, nor did anyone ask me to sign it, nor did I know it was tolerated, but that doesn't mean it's a bad idea. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] We on this side of the assembly don't run away from our ideas not only great and God-given. You will notice that we have supported many initiatives that have come from both your colleagues and colleagues either from the government, or from these benches because we think that something is not necessarily a bad feather if one party or one individual suggests it. So in this case, until your party showed up quite often, let's say in the term of Milanovic's government when everything that came to the agenda was rejected without any frequent arguments, or even reports by the occupiers who do not know what they have to do with the government or the current Andrej Plenkovic, or the past Zoran Milanovic, the ducks were often extremely critical of the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11957	The next one is the respected representative of Toislav Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11958	Dear fellow Minister Hajdukovic, you said that we called this interpretation an insane, illiterate, not high-quality and all, but you are as a long-standing politician and you yourself are aware that this interpretation is an ordinary farce and that there is absolutely no responsibility for Minister Tomislav Ćorić in all that you have pointed out and what we have talked about. It has simply become incomprehensible how much impelation occurs in the last meeting of the Croatian Parliament, and in this conference it continues with the same story even though you are as a position aware that you cannot succeed in it. That in the sea of other important problems that silence our citizens to discuss such a thing is simply a waste of time. You're aware of that. It is incomprehensible to me that you as a position cannot find something that could really be discussed in this assembly. We're discussing something that started a long time ago when even you were in power. When continuity continued and saved, it pulled out of everything the best that could. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11959	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11960	Thank you very much. My colleague Klaric, however, cannot help the HDZ unfortunately, which was a hopeless opposition. No one's stopped you from starting your own impelations. Also on this side of the assembly and from my party came a lot of legislative proposals, they will come and we will be able to discuss them, very gladly. Legislative proposals that seek to improve the conditions in which our citizens live, the entrepreneurial environment, resolve their rights, etc., etc. So, with great joy we will discuss it, and my colleague would not agree that potential corruption, I cannot know whether the minister is guilty or not, nor am I there to judge him, that there are therefore bodies that need it, but my suspicion of corruption is always a very good cause for discussion in this Croatian Assembly, because citizens have a clear right to know how their money is spent.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11961	The next is a replica of the respected representative Goran Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11962	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Hajdukovic, the thesis that dominated your debate is fear. We are not afraid and invite us, to call fear I do not think it is appropriate, but there should be fear of the Croatian public from the amount of amnesia that has taken over all of you who have started this whole story around Krš-Paden when we have not yet dreamed about the Croatian Assembly. It is not good, it is not good to deceive the Croatian public in this way and call us for some fear. Fear and me as a man is fear here in the Croatian Parliament of the amount of you who were the actors of this story as you now wash mud, mud, and you've put it on yourself and now you want to put that hot potato on our lap. That's not fair.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11963	Dear Representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11964	Well, my colleague, the only thing that can be fear is HDZ's amnesia that I can probably tell you for hours, we could spend one entire session of the Croatian Parliament on amnesia a lot of people in a lot of corrupt acts that were before the court and who were former members of your party, including former prime minister Dr. Ivo Sanader, etc., etc., etc. And as for fear, or if you're talking about whether there were some or some suspicions of corrupt activities or corrupt actions or favors, then I don't know why your colleagues and colleagues didn't report it to the authorities, because it's the duty of citizens to know about some corrupt actions to report them.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11965	The next is a replica of the respected representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11966	Mr. Hajdukovic, you say thieves, you want to tell the public how much you lost to that theft in your fourth constituency, 8-3. Which is where you contributed it to that people and citizens to recognize you, with lies, words like this. You act like a big European with a tongue like this. You're some boss as much as I remember a board that deals with some kind of European topic and you're not ashamed of the people sitting here being thieves. So what should we tell you? You remember the case of a colleague of your director of the IRS, if she was convicted of anything, perhaps, if you gave up her, if it's not written to you, because you don't have those sins of your 10 appointed ministers for political corruption, they were setting up a competition for themselves were still ministers and replaced by all sorts, 10 pieces. You didn't care. You have the nerve to come here and say what you just said. It's not for a warning, it's for a reminder by taking away words.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11967	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11968	If I had a colleague's cheek, and I'm going to tell you more, when you're more potent than Slavonia, we see from the example of the Slavonia project that you're the only ones who want to stay in Slavonia, so I guess only HDZ, their financiers and their close entrepreneurs. And then you marvel at those election results when you chased the people of Slavonia away. In Slavonia, only HDZs stay and Wald can work have the right to live. Valda is the only one... So you don't live there. [[Intruder: You don't understand.]] That's your first thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11969	Please, please, let's not get off the bench.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11970	And which ten ministers went to, I don't know. How many of those ten ministers were convicted, none, none. Your prime minister has been convicted of an ex, your party president has been convicted. My party hasn't been convicted yet, and it's not authorized, it's yours.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11971	The next replica of the esteemed representative of Damir Habian.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11972	Thank you very much. Your Honor, I have already mentioned this today, so you know exactly what impelation is and how it is regulated by the Rules of Procedure. What we have in front of us today, so these are certain questions that are written inside, so that doesn't even fill the form that should be fulfilled. And that debate today of the 15 hours we've been witnessing is a farce. It really is a farce. We're talking here on the basis of something that you don't even have, but that's why you've accordingly found that you're calling the whole party, all your colleagues here for corruption, criminals, thieves. And just for your information in the 3rd constituency I come from, several officials are your SDP party's rightfully accused of crime and corruption. From HDZ, none, not even from any other break, just the SDP. So you might want to think about it a little bit when you're accusing us.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11973	The answer of the respected representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11974	Well, I can tell you by tomorrow who's accused of this by power, powerlessness, etc., and besides the form, so there's a Secretariat, there's a Bureau of Parliament if something wasn't in line with the form why would they argue? I might have made little conclusions differently, that's true, but that doesn't mean it's not even diminishing the importance of this debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11975	Thank you very much. The next debate will be the respected representative of Davor Dretar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11976	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister. Here it would be really great if we had this kind of energy more often and we worked this long and hard, because we would all be very, very, very proud of ourselves, I believe that we need this barbecue in any debate, any topic we need to discuss with this kind of heat, and we have the right to tell each other everything we want. The fact is, only at the beginning to warn of one small mathematical interest, that only about 26% of the opposition MPs signed this interpretation, which, in my assessment, does not in any way destroy its right or its survival, since the party currently in power received only 15% of the votes of Croatian citizens, therefore significantly less, mathematics is the devil's thing, Agent Strick, the numbers can be turned, can they? The fact is that the fight against corruption is one of the basic things for us in the opposition, but also for the ruling party, as the prime minister said, is the introduction of a zero tolerance rate. So, I'm gonna try to calm down the tensions a little bit, really why do they even exist? This interpretation, according to Mr. Representative Tušek at the very beginning, is directed against HDZ. It's not. It's directed against corruption and it's absolutely here as one way for all of us to talk and try to make a deal about it. He said it was directed against HDZ. It's not. I don't know why he is. Maybe he subconsciously evened those two ideas. I believe it's just an unfortunate coincidence. Everywhere, there's honest people in every party, there's good people, there's valuable people. I'm not saying everyone's wrong, I'm not saying everyone's perfect, none of us are. I understand that you're here too, and I have to give you a very good and quality fight for your cause, and you have every right to do that. I'm sorry there's no Prime Minister here, but I believe the big brother is watching you and he's rightly proud. But if the story we're discussing was just as clear as you claim not to entertain the public for months, watched various arrests, and all together, of course, at our morning coffees, told all kinds of stories, maybe not some and even terrified of the fact that this alleged corruption has become deep, not to say, almost normal part of Croatia's reality, how many millions have been found in the trunks of cars and who ate everything and drank it all, but we won't anymore, it's really a spent topic. We also found out here that we would not have the right to object at all because all decisions were made by the competent courts, and unfortunately we have to try to challenge it a little bit and ask which courts? Courts that are one of the cancers of Croatian societies in which justice occurs slowly or even in no way. Here on Friday we will welcome a new, perhaps not final, ruling in the Fimi Media case in the 10th year process. There it is, the fact that something lasts for 10 years. says how clean and peaceful and sinless this judiciary is. Are these the same courts that are making us at the bottom of a scale of independence of the judiciary and the most convincing of the citizens' trust? So, let's go a little bit, again I say all together how great it was said by the esteemed representative Ahmetovic, all together try to change. In no way would the honourable representative Bacic agree that this debate is bizarre. No, it's absolutely not bizarre and I believe that you'll change your mind, especially when we find and bring it ourselves, and we'll study all these documents that we're so keenly looking for, and here we've learned that, and you're not obliged to deliver them to us as a delivery agent, which isn't, there's no such obligation, we'll find them ourselves, and we'll still have to ask you to lend them to us for a moment, so I believe we'll find ourselves here again to look at all together in those documents, because I believe that you're not currently finding anything controversial in them, so we'll sit down, so we'll read them together. It's our job to find out now that we've gone a little too far. Why is that all? Why don't you find some other topics? Why this corruption? Of course, we still have a lot of issues. Soon we will ask you to believe through another interpretation that we can already start preparing right now, where the €18 billion of European money intended for the development of 5 Slavonian counties? Now, about that, it's also Mr. Hajdukovic just said something through the hint, and I believe that we will soon have a lot, a lot, a lot to talk about. And here's to the end, the last three seconds are just to get you back to 1885 and say that as a famous representative We're supposed to put a stick to corruption with our foot up our ass. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11977	The next individual debate will be respected representatives of Ruzica Vukovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11978	Dear Vice President HS, colleagues and fellow MPs. Not long ago, the public was informed that the Office for the control of corruption and organised crime, so the USKOK reached a solution to conduct an investigation against 13 Croatian citizens, two of whom had BiH citizenship along with Croatian citizenship, due to a reasonable suspicion of committing crimes of trade in influence, giving and receiving bribes, and abuse of positions and powers. The media then informed us that it was the secretary of state at the Ministry of Administration and former HDZ Mayor Knina Josipi Rimac, the head of the administration of the Croatian Forests Krunoslav Jakupić, the chief of the cabinet of the agriculture paying agency Ružica Njavro, the assistant Minister of Economy Ani Mandac, one of the richest entrepreneurs in BiH Milenko Bašić and, among other things, Dragan Stipić, the executive director of the Bašić Group Lager, owned by the company that is the investor in the building project VE Krš-Pađen in the area of Ervenik Municipality and the City of Knin. Therefore, USKOK clearly established its doubts that Josepha Rimac and others agreed to obtain a significant non-income profit among other things by using their position and social influence to take all the necessary actions to ensure that the company, which was planning to build VE despite not meeting all the requirements laid down, ensure that the permits, beliefs, conclusion of contracts needed for the construction, release, production and sale of electricity were obtained. It is particularly painful to know that this deeply corrupt action included persons who should have taken care of the future of the Croatian village in their job description. The number of people who have been disappointed and evicted, data on the number of closed OPGs, data on the decline in the production to the wound, speak of the difficult situation in Croatia's village. While the finance minister is looking for models that, despite opposition from the professional services in HBOR, the amount of 80m euros or 600m kunas that broke all the agreements and crossed all the deadlines of the Croatian village is dying, Croatia is dying in the country. I calculated the total debt to the OPGs involved in the construction of HBOR's credit funds farms that the Ministry of Agriculture asked them to and came to an amount of 150 million kuna. Many of the families mentioned since the land was taken away, which was blessed by the Ministry of Agriculture, were left without a basic resource for feeding cattle. Many families, due to the disastrously low price of milk, were unable to finance loans and were left without a roof over their heads. A small part of them managed to survive, and every day they were terrified of their future. I had to withdraw the parallel and compare the amount of 600 million kunas that Minister Marić decided to grant to only one man and one company with 150 million kuna which would save Minister Slavonac from the collapse of food production in Croatia, the production of healthy food, quality food, easily available, easily controlled food that would preserve our nation's health and still not allow us to see the documentation on which they decided to reward one person so broadly. Gentlemen ruling unless you're hiding anything why are you afraid of the Croatian people? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11979	The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Erik Fabianic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11980	Dear colleagues and colleagues. Formal procedural interpretation has its contents in Croatian legislation and regulations and our Rules of Procedure. Interpletion, however, does not differ much from what our regulations provide. In fact, the aim of the interpretation is essentially to talk, to talk between a concrete legislative body and an executive authority that is required to essentially take certain positions on certain phenomena, but also to suggest to us as Parliament certain solutions so that certain things do not happen again. I am pleased to discuss how many people in Croatia are essentially less interested in what we are discussing today because they are more certainly burdened with pandemics than with renewable energy sources, and that is a fact and no one is slow. But we're here to discuss both that and the need for other things. In the end, what they know, they know from the media, and they get certain impressions, and they end up having legitimate doubts, which, in such discussions, serve to justify these doubts or to act much more harshly than what is being done. So I think that this interpretation still takes as many people, as I said our citizens today are quite different and quite other problems are bothering them and they're quite different burdens. Yes, we need to discuss this. It's just a matter of what conditions. As we need other ways, I am not a supporter to stick only to WE or I am a supporter in order to stick to gas alone or to stick to only solar energy. The reason is very simple, it is a risk dispersion and Croatia in its energy strategy should have that part of the risk dispersion, but when it comes to the same fuel that is not in Croatia or there is little that we need to have more supply lines because it is one of the strategic interests and issues of the state itself. The fact is that this discussion may have gone well in a certain direction, but here it is, listening from the debate in fact I'm being offered, Mr. Boris you mentioned INA, MOL, here I am for us to collect signatures together and to really discuss and interpret INA MOL for this meeting. Because also the words that relate to Slavko Linic selling.../incomprehensible/... INU MOL can be interpreted twice, but then I ask you, for which reason this hated Slavko Linic is engaged by the Croatian government, Andrej Plenkovic, to resolve certain disputes between INA and MOL, point and that's where I'll stop.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11981	The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Stephen Nikola Bartulic. Here you go. Comrade Bull, don't throw it out of the bench, please. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11982	Here, thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, fellow MPs and MPs, I am pleased to see that there are many more of us present in these late hours, I think it is very important to discuss these topics thoroughly, that this is not in vain, nor is this interpretation of someone personally, nor of this government, but I think it is justified to ask some questions. And in principle I'm going to say a lot of things is said during the day, a lot of details are put forward and so on, I say, I don't see, I'll try, I'll try and go where I left off. So, in principle, I will talk about the phenomenon of guessing in Croatia. So we see the problem especially in these contracts which guarantees too high a price over the long term. So, if the government is in charge of all interests and wants to ensure the general good, it can't in this way provide in fact such a privileged position for a single company. So we are aware that green policies are costing, but this way really raises the question of why and how the whole new area opens up for us to steal money through ordinary people. So we know how many of our citizens are standing before the performances, how many have already left Croatia and now, besides that, this policy is being imposed where high prices have to pay for electricity, and they have a hard time paying monthly bills anyway. However, guessing is not only in the conduct of green policies, we have it daily in furnished public tenders where it is known in advance who will get certain jobs, furniture is conditioned to know which company only can meet and very specific and particular conditions and everything is agreed in advance. And all this is possible because the government will repeat I don't know how many times, too many spells, is too present in the economy and regularly in this way actually allows market processes to be disrupted, unfortunately. I see the main problem here. So, we can declare ourselves a market economy, but in reality every day, government goes through various selection mechanisms, selecting winners and losers, all over the back of ordinary consumers, our citizens. And that's where we see the problem. So you have through this case obvious corruption, I'm going to say it obviously because guessing is a form of corruption, a form of corruption, not all are equal, not all are equal, some are more equal than others, and we're going to fight it. But this bargaining actually opens up wider questions, so does the government really manage our resources in a responsible way? My colleague Vukovac mentioned how empty some regions are already, it is nice to protect the environment and we have nothing against it, but if it is by the appearance of such policies that Croatia remains empty without its own people then we must ask whether it is truly achieving a general interest because we are demographically threatened. We're demographically compromised. And unfortunately, these measures encourage further eviction. So I would say that it's very important that this interpretation came on the agenda, unlike other topics that are constantly being delayed, that they delay this now came anyway to this home and if I can for another second.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11983	Thank you very much. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11984	And I was interrupted, I just couldn't talk for half a minute.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11985	It wasn't half a minute, but a few seconds, but.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11986	A few seconds, well, I'm saying once again it seems to me that the main cause of this problem is that the government gets too involved in certain processes and opens opportunities for these would say the privileged positions of certain, we're not equal.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11987	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Mira Bulja.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11988	What to say after this debate except to say that we will not find anything new here because simply most of this House will obey the way it has been done so far. However, what is the key problem? The key problem of all the benefits within which the minister leads the threat, environment and energy and economy, Ćoric has done so much damage with numerous moves, with numerous decisions that are not on the honor of, first of all, for us parliamentary representatives who do not have the strength to tell the truth. As for energy, who here can justify a decision and sign to build a wind power plant in Krsh-Paden? Were you there? 2 billion, 2 billion, people, you hear, 2 billion kuna will pay the citizens. 2 billion. In addition, Minister Maric, who left, I don't know what reason, Minister Maric gave HBOR 600 million loans to the highest businessman in Republika Srpska and Serbia. What do the Kninians have, what do the people of the Dalmatian mountain have? Perhaps individuals from these parts, who were in Slavonia 9. At the JANAF Centre, the centre of decision-making on such harmful projects, ministers respected threats and the environment. So how can you, Minister, allow my son from Vrgorec, the pursuits of 120 km, 120 km, garbage, waste from the same municipal dump, with the same sanitary conditions, in Sinj, in the Cetina region? Where did you get the right to do so much damage to that end? Where are the development projects we're calling for, I've given the amendments and I'll give it again. Quick road Kukuzovac-Kryzice, a colleague of Sanader's. The stone foundations were laid, not the tributes, I set them up. The irrigation of the Sinj field, the only thing you've done, is make the exit to Lucevica di unfortunately has no inhabitants, unfortunately, all the older people. All the older people, the mail fox is wearing, and the wolf's ringing, there's just no people. There's no one here. Sadness, no children. 100,000 people left the Dalmatian mountain, we're talking about prosperity. Of what? What decisions, what decisions? And we have a pure nature, only the water resource that we have is the potential in our junk, in the Dalmatian Zagora, and the imposition of a harmful project that has invested 30 million kunas, a centre for the management of Lečevica waste. 30 million kunas, you know what they did? Nothing, Minister, nothing. And you've closed the dump in Vrgorec and Sinj, and you know what's going to happen, there's going to be an Italian scenario, a problem of waste disposal. But you won't put him in a dump in Sinj, no, no. You won't. You broke in, you sent in the police. You won't. We have developed projects below, not harmful projects. Developmental, for the survival of humans. We are being triangulated by the veins of the housewives, the connection, the connection with the scrolls, the links to the highway in which it was made exclusively to make it easier for people to communicate, not the most potent area for development, not just energy, not just the exploitation and the mines that you give orderly, the same environmental impact study, has more mines, everyone who thinks of it. Of Poljak's beam, Kojac's beams are in the Lucians, wherever he thinks of it, only exploitation. It's not funny, Minister. It doesn't make sense. The schools are collapsing, the kids are gone, and the exploitation fields are all over the place, and my colleague Sanader is there professional and competent about the exploitation fields, so he could say more about it, and hopefully he'll talk. Minister, resign, you have done absolutely nothing in Croatia to damage Croatian people Your decisions. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11989	The next individual debate will be respected representatives of Sabine Vosovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11990	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of HS, dear colleagues and colleagues. We have to admit that I am surprised by some colleagues and colleagues in HS, who are in some way humiliating, or contesting the right of the opposition to refer to the interpretations in HS by treating them and evaluating them as non-sustainable and some other epithets. So what should be the job of the Croatian opposition? The opposition is there to criticise, to closely monitor what the Government is doing, to make his proposals, but also to use everything at its disposal on the basis of our Rules of Procedure. And by the way, it's in art. 145th and Interpol. It is said, "The Intpellation opens a debate at the Parliament's session on the work of the government as a whole or on certain government or ministry decisions if they deviate from the general position of the Government or the ministry in law enforcement or established policy." The debate is being examined, or the debate is being opened, and it is being reconsidered, in fact, by individual government decisions, by a particular ministry which, according to the applicant, and by us from the SDP, deviate from law enforcement or established, established policies. Regardless of this interpretation submitted by the Homeland Movement, the SDP has filed a request to launch a trust issue with Minister Tomislav Ćorić and states from this interpretation are only one, only one of the things for which Mr Ćoric must bear political responsibility at the very least. It's not up to us to establish criminal responsibility, let some other investigative and judicial bodies do it. This is why we think he has to bear political responsibility when we talk about this impellation. It is in the interest of citizens to encourage the production of renewable energy sources, but under equal conditions for all investors and with respect to legal and other conditions. However, just in this case, the windman Krš-Padene is concerned, not about encouraging environmentally acceptable electricity production, but about favouring one company, but about harming the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Despite the fact that the Environment and Nature Protection Agency has said that there is a risk of a negative impact of the wind power plant on the area of Krš-Padene on the environment, and despite the fact that the environmental protection service concerned within the then Ministry of Environment and Energy, which Mr Ćorić led, has imposed on them the obligation to conduct a study on this, he has signed only one signature, one signature and one change of decision freed the private company from the obligation to develop an environmental impact study that everyone else must have and does not have the possibility of having a single signature to dissipate them with one decision. So professional and legal conditions become irrelevant when it comes to some, similar or ours, then we don't need studies, no laws, no regulations. They're worth everyone else, not the chosen ones. In this way, it is possible for this company to belong to billions of kunas of profits they should not have, and the burden for which the minister has transferred not to himself but to all electricity consumers, while on the other hand the environmental impact is not important, and among other things environmental protection is part of its portfolio. It encourages the production of electricity from renewable sources to protect the environment, and on the other hand, the same facility is a potential destroyer of the same environment because we do not know whether or not it is because it is not required to study environmental impacts. It's very logical and very credible. And that's where someone makes a good living, and it's possible they're sharing that non-existent profit with those who made it possible for them. According to some media inscriptions that, when some conversations were recorded, you remember those bugs, a gentleman was impressed by the project presented to him by Mrs. Roman, so he said great, so while the wind blows, you're filling your pockets. The second element with environmental protection is crediting the project itself. As it is possible that HBOR first rejects the request for a loan in January 2019 because it is about crediting foreign technology, plants and equipment, so it is about imports, which has already been approved here by some colleagues, and then only two months later. What's changed? Did the wind generators, meanwhile, become a Croatian export product or re-prescription, and put the meaning of the HBOR itself on the other hand in order to enable someone to acquire billions? We think this is exactly what we're talking about here, and that's why we support this interpretation and the demands that are listed in it, let all the documents be delivered, let everything be reviewed and determine where there have been violations of the regulations, where there have been conjectures. and who is such a violation of regulations and favoration [[Intruder: Thank you]] enabled them. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11991	We have a replica of Honorable Representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11992	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Vice President Voter, I think you've given a very good point. I'd like to point that out one more time because sometimes there's a different impression. So we are not discussing criminal responsibility here, but above all political responsibility, we are not the court, nor can we be the minister or any other criminal convictions, but we can assess whether there are political responsibilities. The other thing I want to underline is unfortunately not just in this case, in all cases, in most cases, when we talk about projects like this, big investments, when we go a little deeper, we get to that Orvelska that they're all equal, but some are more equal than others. In my view, it's the biggest crime, that all laws should apply to all investors in this case, to all entrepreneurs, and not to bear witness often, especially when big investments are the opposite.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11993	Dear MPs, the Voter.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11994	You are right, colleague Hajduković, but we have now expanded the diapazon to work not only on Croatian budget money on which they are inclined to put their paws, but are now doing so with the European funds. You know best what I'm talking about, it's a project called the so-called project. The Pear Project Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem, where we have been seeing lately, have now begun to disintegrate some things. Also, the money that is intended to keep young people in Slavonia, to grow agriculture, to increase the quality of life in Slavonia, ends in the pockets of HDZ close to powerful people, and therefore there is another interpretation waiting for them, among other things, that you are preparing, which is "where the money is" and "where the money has ended" intended for a better life of Slavonians. Why did these money ensure a better life for HDZ and HDZ of close businessmen and entrepreneurs?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11995	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the government, the respected Minister Tomislav Coric will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11996	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, and allow me to use a few minutes on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to refer again to the facts which have been reputed, or some respected parliamentary deputies and opposition representatives, in this particular case, Mrs. President. The voter is trying to ignore it in some way. I'm sure she'll look into my claims, so I'd like her to do it in order to remove the doubts about when and how such high subsidies were actually created for certain wind power plants. I will highlight the following fact, in the period 31 October 2013. until 31 December 2013 At the price of 71 lip per kilowatt hour in the system, i.e. contracts were signed, decisions were made for 9 wind power plants of which 3 of the projects of the said investor CEM, the other 6 were listed on several occasions tonight or during today's debate and I would not spend your time. That's one moment, ma'am. The voter, therefore, made those decisions in 2013, I'm sure you know who was then in power in the Republic of Croatia, who was responsible for such decisions, or for such actions. As regards the question of environmental impact assessment, whether, as you have also stated in your presentation, therefore, the environmental impact assessment in this particular case was not on the matter, the March 2017 solution by Minister Dobrović clearly points out that no new environmental impact assessment is necessary since it has been done on several occasions. I will point out once again that the decision of July 2017, i.e. from the end of July 2017, was adopted after multiple consultations with the DORH. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11997	... Thank you very much. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] We have a few replicas. She is the first respected representative of Sabine Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11998	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, you're staying here for 2013. I'll remind you of three things. In 2017, an important project was amended, which was logical to make a new environmental impact study after that. Despite this fact of a major change in the project, you have freed them from these obligations. In 2019, you extend the status of a privileged producer on the basis of only one written statement and in 2019 HBOR granted them an 80m-euro loan despite the fact that the company is not registered in the Register of renewable energy sources and despite the fact that no local authorisation has yet been resolved, i.e. that the local authorisation is the subject of a judicial dispute relating to the right of service with the Croatian Forests. And now I'm just going to repeat that quote "As the wind blows, you fill your pockets." Not you, but someone.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u11999	Dear Minister Coric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u12000	I will once again refer to what you said, so the 2013 solution of Mr. Dobrović's environmental impact assessment was excluded as a necessary further action and in that solution it was not controversial, and if you are talking about the main assessment, that is the second moment we have talked about here on many occasions today. Therefore, as regards the subsidisation of renewable energy projects throughout this period, it is very clear when this decision, i.e. the amount of that subsidy as such, is made. As for the extension of the agreement from 2018, if I am not mistaken, I think you have made a small slip, however, we will not take it as an evil, there is no reason why, therefore, this extension was signed by the Croatian Regulatory Agency, the Croatian Regulatory Agency in our system functions on the principle of CNB, i.e. HANFA, entirely independent of any body of state administration.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u12001	The next replica is the respected representative of Tomislav Tomasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u12002	Here, I'm trying to get some facts. So we've established that you didn't have any written leads in your consultations with the DORH. I wonder if the investor thought the March solution was unfair, i.e. Yes, not unfairly but that it is illegal, did he press charges and administrative dispute and I am interested in the second question, who was who before, who contacted whom, did you contact the DORH to seek the opinion of the DORH about the procedure or vice versa, the DORH contacted you because he wanted to warn you that damage would occur to the state?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u12003	Dear Minister Coric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u12004	This first part of the question will be answered by Mr. Tomašević, therefore, in the first part you asked about the administrative dispute It was launched before the Administrative Court in Split, and the Ministry of Environmental and Energy has launched a request for the renewal of the procedure, I think that is what the type of request is formally called. [[Intruder: Administrative dispute on the March solution.]] As far as consulting with the DORH is concerned, they started before I entered the ministry, or coming to the position of the Minister of Environmental and Energy Protection, so that at this moment you insist, I cannot answer you. So whether the ministry contacted the DORH or the DORH Ministry, it is something I can offer you in response to the next debate that will be held here in a few weeks.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u12005	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ante Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u12006	Thank you, Vice President. Your Honor, you've spoken here several times, Mrs. President. Bencic and Mr. Bulj have damages of 2 billion, billions and 200 to the state. What's this about? And secondly, who made the decision to increase the subsidy by kilowatt hour?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u12007	Dear Minister Coric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u12008	Therefore, this damage is primarily a statement of the subsidized prices that the investor of all projects, i.e. that investors of all wind power plants will receive over 12 years and 14 years, depending on how many years these projects are subsidized. The tariff decision, as you know, was made in 2012, at 71 lip per kilowatt hour, increased by corrective moments. As for the new decision taken at the end of October 2013, it was at the time 53 June per kilowatt hour. I will only refer to the fact that in the ministry or government we have created a new, new programme to encourage renewable energy sources, the top price to auction, the top price to each other, and each other to compete, the producers for wind power projects will, if I am not mistaken, be 45 June.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u12009	Thank you. And the replica has a respected representative, Mirela Ahmetovic, she's had some doubts, but she still has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u12010	Thank you very much, Your Honor. What? _Respected [[I said you had some doubts about whether or not to.]] /incomprehensible/... do not take up my time because you will interrupt me [[Intruder: I see you checked out.]] Dear Minister, we can agree that it is 2013. [[Intruder: It will extend.]] Ivan Vrdoljak signed some document that wasn't very good, so in 2017 he raised his hand for your government and gave you a majority in the Parliament. We agree, it's over for you and I to agree on something. However, we also have to agree on something else, so you have annulled the Dobrovic's solution, which required that the main assessment of acceptability be made for the ecological network, not an environmental impact study, I know very well what the impact study is on the environment, and you know that I know very well, but you have annulled that solution and made it possible to speed up the implementation of the project by CMP companies.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u12011	That wouldn't be true, first of all... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u12012	I'm asking you first not to talk like that here, you won't, because I'm giving you a warning. I'm giving you a reminder now with the taking of words. Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Minister, from the beginning because you were interrupted.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u12013	So let me just answer Mrs Ahmetovic. We disagree, you know it's very difficult to get into a situation where you and I agree on issues from the energy segment. But let me just point you to the next fact. Therefore, by repealing the March 2017 solution, it is in no way possible to speed up this project. If it hadn't been for that annulment, if it hadn't happened, if I hadn't become a minister, and if this solution had remained in force, the investor in this project would have gone towards the realization of... a project of 71 aggregates and this project would have been completed because it didn't need a single permit, it just so had a power building permit, it should have been kept in mind. At the moment Mr. Plenkovic's government and I are personally called to give someone money, that's not true.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u12014	Thank you very much. Here is now the next one, on behalf of the promoter, to speak to the esteemed representative Miro Bulj or the esteemed representative of Grmoja, please make up your mind. ... You can't say here's what I'm offering you to speak either you or your colleague Bull. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u12015	Don't be surprised, colleagues, so the Rules of Procedure were broken, and I answered on behalf of the promoter I was right, but they realized that I was right, so here I am. I just wanted to react to what the minister said, so we're going back to 2013 all the time, and none of us are arguing that Milanovic's government and Minister Vrdoljak's decisions were criminal, that they were bad for Croatian citizens, so none of us are slow. Nor did you hear from counterpart Kristo that someone was defending Milanovic, Vrdoljak or that we had such an intention, however, that you listened better to your colleague Kristo you could hear that her presentation started in 2013. But what you don't want to hear is that Minister Coric here is here now coming out changed the decision of March 2017 that Mr Basic did not go into change of his project he would have realized the project and no one could do anything to him. And that's where you're right and you could say, all these projects, all around the Ve started by Milanovic's government, we would have thrown out the state with significant financial damage, and we have nothing here, we just respect what's signed and we have to act like that. But Bašić himself has brought himself into a situation by changing the project that he needs new permits and from the very beginning of this debate you have claimed two things that are contrary. First, you claimed that the Bridge had favored the Ethic Bank and that we had asked Bashic to pay the money to the Ethic Bank so that we could give it some kind of green light, and then all the time you claimed that you had done nothing that nothing had changed. So obviously something was to be done that Minister Dobrovic did not do to him, and Minister Coric did. And there are documents from March where Dobrovic says the project cannot go should be conducted an environmental impact study and from July of the month when Most is no longer in power that the study is not needed with the signing of Minister Ćorić. So Minister Ćoric was in a position not to hitchhike all the bad Vrdoljakov moves, but this one where Bašić was recalculated, went to the re-purpose of the project itself, and he could hitchhike 2 billion kunas of Croatian citizens, and that's what all people pay for. All those paying for electricity shall pay that allowance or that compensation for renewable energy sources. And we could at least get this project, we could at least take it off the back of Croatian citizens. No, Minister Coric and this government decided to give the project a green light. We have now understood after five hours of debate, and I say it may be possible for these projects to break up if found and see where the government of Milanovic or Plenkovic's government has favored it. With that here I was now visiting Nova says a journalist that has not changed since 2013. They have also changed in 2015, but for projects to come, not for what was signed in 2013 because it cannot be changed. We have here as a Croatian Parliament, and that pleases my colleagues, so I didn't insult anyone here in the debate. Can we agree that the wind power plant project was not good for Croatia and Croatian citizens. They pay for more expensive electricity, and no component in the construction of these wind power plants is produced in Croatia. HBOR gives subsidies, we have a subsidized electricity price and Croatia has no use for that. Shall we agree on that? We would agree that it would be much better to subsidize microsolars and go that way. Let's get this out of the debate? So we know it won't fall to the government at this impelation. Coric may leave as many ministers who were asked by the opposition left, not immediately, but after a few days. Let's agree on these things and go build a better Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u12016	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. He's the first respected representative of Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u12017	Thank you very much. First of all, at the beginning of his colleague, Grmoja said that he had violated the Rules of Procedure not only with you, but I had on behalf of the promoter after Minister Ćorić, after the clubs. However, counterpart Bukarica and then the chairman said they could not do so, and this can also be confirmed by the services which are a classic violation of the Rules of Procedure by the Croatian Parliament. But when you talk about the wind power plant Krš – Padeden, of course, that Bašić the investor was working on a re-use and that in that re-purpose, Minister Ćorić allowed him to make that re-use without assessing the impact study on the environment and that the citizens would pay billions from that area, but here is an interesting colleague of Grmoja what you are saying. Interestingly, however, none of the clubs that are in coalition with HDZ are mainly Milorad Pupovac and SDSS who have been well lobbying for the project and whether it has been polluted should have checked that out, that they have not reported here at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u12018	Thank you very much. The answer of the esteemed representative of Grumoja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u12019	So, my colleague Bulj, on several occasions, told the public that I had a fellow Pupovac lobbying for the Krš – Padjene project, stopped me here in the hallway and said what you MOSTs were protecting there eagles, birds and so forth. And not just him, but some from the right-hand power of the HDZ. The interesting combination was lobbying. I just answered, I don't decide anything, they decide the ministry's professional services, and I don't intend to get involved. And this Milorad Pupovac was also in Slovenia 9. And there he was. And it's not too much written about it, it disappears when it suits him, and then it comes and almost makes them cry, meaning how much he cares about these people of Serbian nationality. Here we heard a colleague from the SDSS this morning talking that parish was and then moaning about how people don't have electricity and don't have the rest. So who's responsible for it? As our colleague Rasdic said, these are the HDZ Eastern rites.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u12020	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ante Sanader. Maybe he doesn't want to answer?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u12021	I want to, I want to. I didn't see it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u12022	And then look better.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u12023	Okay. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u12024	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u12025	Thank you, Vice President. I didn't understand you, Mr. Grmoya. You said these two billion damages, would they have been if they had remained an old license with old aggregates the one that was issued in 2013 or was it only a pity if this was going?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u12026	If you had listened carefully, you would have understood that I said that by changing the project Mr. Bašić allowed the Government of the Republic of Croatia to solve at least one harmful project and take it off the back of Croatian citizens. But it was obviously more important for Josipa Rimac, Minister Coric or someone else to pursue some of their own interests. After all, we could listen to videos as well as what was done. There's your responsibility. So when you give the state a chance to break something that's bad, your job was to find out where you're going to break these bad contracts, not to guess if they're going to continue. And there's your crime scene.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u12027	The next individual debate will be the respected representative of Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u12028	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, my colleagues and my classmates. Here's a few thoughts about the government's work. According to the title about possible illegal actions of the project Krš – Padeden, perhaps it is a very important word because it suggests that you may be guilty, and perhaps you are not. But the argument on the side of the opposition to the government's 2013 sins, Plenkovic said he was guilty in 2020. Why? Well, that's because you had a chance to break up contracts with investors, but you didn't. Well, then we're making it up, and we're talking about an environmental impact study as a colleague of Grumoja says, and Dobrović himself said that the environmental impact study is not controversial, that something else needs to be evaluated by his colleague, no matter how convincing he wants to be. But what do I care most about here? It's just a story. The form is satisfied, the interpretation is here, 20 MPs except for Mr Petrov, the Rasdic family, Pavlic and Penave they did not want to sign it. They obviously had reasons why not. And, of course, content. 2013, 2014, 2017, they are all guilty, but we should leave Ćorić and Plenkovic, they are guilty and the HBOR loan is disputed. Here are some basic messages of interpretation. If you'd like to deliver everything we're looking for, that's some kind of data that can be found on the web site today. On the entire 32 pages of CROT, there are all solar contracts, wind parks, etc. But what's important there is also the National newspaper with tariffs when all these investments are agreed, i.e. contracts. It's all in 2012, 2013, something in 2007. There's nothing after 2013. You know why? Because, according to her colleague, it was a dark day on 31.12.2013 if you listened to her debate. That investor was lucky, because on the second day of 1.1, it was an accident that such politicians who shamelessly call this side here all day long were willing to say something like that, it was happiness. That 71 lipa tariff was called happiness, and it was slightly lower than 50th, and the total accident was the second day. And it's all normal for everyone. And it wasn't Mrs. Kristo who called the SDP, why when we see who's gathering in the coalition, all at the end of the left, at the end of the right joyous MOST, the joyous gentlemen of the Homeland Movement, it's not at all important what binds us but the important moment that suggests this interpretation. Something needs to be torn down, someone needs to be locked up, something needs to be stopped at the end of the line. No matter when it starts. We get rid of the sins right away, and they say, "Let's get rid of it." We're even ready to admit that we did it. Whom we won't call, says only one minister made a government decision, only one with himself, and the others were probably sitting there, 20 of them and no one but one guilty. Not some government, what a former prime minister nothing. These are the messages of today. They're all guilty but only in this power. Because we solve everything that we have left in our inheritance, not only for four years, a lot of it, and this contract, and this is signed by someone, and some say well, the investor when he comes, when we sign with him, we can use him in a hurry and let him disappear. It doesn't matter what he brings or doesn't bring, let him disappear, the damage is smaller. Who's to blame? This government again, nothing before. And it's interesting how the commitment or common finding is both the far left and the far right, I couldn't believe the eyes of my colleague Zekanovic standing next to my colleague Bencic at a press conference. Now they want to tear down the minister and he bothers. Listen, you're a good minister, but we're going to take you down, as we're going to bring down the budget, a coalition of destroyers. So what, so what a citizen might think about today's debate except that the reason we're talking about is when a fellow minister spends the whole time explaining the course of events that is visible by solutions and contracts by all activities they say you're guilty of 2 billion damages, you from HDZ. What about us? Why don't you guys be a little guilty from the SDP? I didn't raise my hand in 2013 for it, so be yourself, as counterpart Hajdukovic says, stealing or stealing from the SDP. Well, it's not just that it fascinates the simplicity with which you approach such topics and try to do harm to Croatian society, to citizens, and then to individuals, to the minister and not to speak further. below each level is that way of yours but continue. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u12029	Thank you very much. We've got a few replicas. He's the first respected representative of Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u12030	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague, Boric, you are absolutely right, so it is incorrect what the promoter is saying, and now he claims that Mr. Coric, as minister, had the tools in his hands to undo Krš-Padjene. At the time when Krš-Paden is going to change their project in a way that out of 71 pillars build 48 they have a legitimate building permit, have a solution on privileged status and have a contract with CROTE on the construction of 71 pillars and the amount of energy delivered would be the same, the same amount would be paid subsidies, or incentives for this produced independently whether it builds on the first or new project that implies a smaller number of pillars, but the same amount of 142 MW. So it doesn't stand. What Mr. Grmoya said doesn't stand.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u12031	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative, Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u12032	As a result, I said, colleague Mrak, she was the minister of the government, the minister of spatial planning and construction, she raised her hand for it, she came here and calmly said we were happy the day we happily gave that investor a fee of 71 June. Everyone's happy because they knew the other day was already unhappy and nobody's asking them, who called who, who asked what, why exactly the last day on New Year's Eve's Decision. Who's making the New Year's resolution? Government. Great. And nothing. Who's to blame? In 2020, Žorić, all of them, in order not to be asked what they were doing. And now we use.../incomprehensible/... what they're doing, telling them what's going on they say in the Homeland Movement better that 71 times we've made it to that facility through the woods, on a hill or where we don't know where to save that landscape better than when we do 48. So 23 less, but they say it's better, that we have to accept it. That's great, I'll take it. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u12033	The next is a replica of the esteemed representative of Ante Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u12034	Thank you, Vice President. A respected colleague of this I didn't understand you were talking about the termination of the contract and now Mr. Bacic has asked, but you haven't answered if the right to build on the investor had not been signed by Ćoric that Minister Ćoric means he didn't sign it. And here, counterpart Ahmetovic invited Minister Ćorić to go to the newspaper tomorrow and say that Vrdoljak is guilty.../incomprehensible/... Vrdoljak, in which the government was Vrdoljak at the time, which the government was and is there any responsibility of others?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u12035	Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u12036	My colleague Sanader and you and I know that what they're doing is I'm saying from some of their interesting desire to get together I say all left, far left, all right I say both joyous and sad and what they are, they want to bring something down. And it doesn't matter what we write. They say this was written for 3.5 months by my colleague, Vrkljan, I listened today, 3.5 months 3.5 pages a little less often. No matter what 3.5 months, which is 3.5 months, so this is written in an hour and a half, I say two with a slightly more serious approach. But that someone convinces me that we don't protect nature when we want 49 wind power generators and that we're protecting it with 71 and that it was meant to survive and that it was meant to go over it in a way, so make sure you still pay those 2 billion that they're talking about who brought those tariffs and they've convinced us all afternoon that we have to support this. Well, of course we can't support this, how we're gonna support this. Based on what? Lies?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u12037	Thank you very much. The next replica is respected MPs Dalia Oreskovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u12038	Mr. Boric I've been listening to you all day, you, Bačića, my colleague Jelkovac and others, you don't really have anything to say. You are surprised all the time that Mr. Zekanovic, a colleague of Bencic, was found on the same wavelength, and yes, we will all meet from the right and left spectrum of political commitment in order to bring down what you have established in the 30 years of Croatian rule, a corrupt malignant creature that destroyed all the dream of a prosperous happy and justly arranged country. And get used to it, this may be the first in a row, but certainly not the last and only where the complete opposition from the left to the right will unite on concrete issues with one wish, which is that we finally start changing Croatia for the better.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u12039	Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u12040	Thank you very much. Dear Mrs. Oreshkovic, I have listened to these destroyers in my previous term. One of them threatened to relieve us of the whole term. He's gone. I think he's a professor. He gave good speeches and threatened us all the time that he would bring us both down and the system and everything. You continue in the same way as he will probably be the same result because today it is not easy to fool citizens as you think it is possible because what you do in such a way of destroying. So you can clap, you can hunt for every word, but that's what the citizens in this country have contributed to, and that's what they see. Behind some of this, there's something left behind,...the rest of you except for the loose words after which there was nothing. And what you're threatening, keep threatening and on.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u12041	Thank you very much. Comrade Oreshkovic, please not from the bench, okay? Let's be polite. Dear Representative Miro Bulj will now speak on behalf of the promoter. Maybe he gets a round of applause, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u12042	After this historic speech and after saying that the people cannot be manipulated, Mr. Boris's manipulation expert really showed it. I would tell you, Mr. Boric, that first of all, I feel sad that there is no one from the government here, that you are not respected by parliamentary representatives,... It's from Minister Coric. Bring him home. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Where's Coric? Where are the ministers? So look how inconclusive it is to my colleague and colleagues, and Mr.... /Speakers speak at the same time./... to Mr. Prime Minister and this majority Mr. Boric for embellishment of reality he simply has this gift, he has this power of man to do it, but the fact that here he came and the minister showed up after a long time, the fact that this whole story we listen to and said by his colleague Grumoja, and colleague Kristo said everything in the opening statement on behalf of the promoter and he was absolutely 100% what she said was right as well as a colleague of Grumoja who cleared the whole situation. Minister Ćoric had the opportunity to stop this harmful project because the investor requested the re-purpose of the project as you say decreases in the number of pillars for the WE. Yeah, the number of reductions in the WE pillars, and... five times larger than they were predicted with a bigger one... and that's that story, but it costs 2 billion. And in that harmful form that brought Vrdoljak to the cabinet session, your coalition partner and then suddenly astounded Boric, Bačić you are all astounded at once how it is possible to find the left, the right. With you it is very easy, which left, which right, then in Croatia lives both left and right and people of all nationalities and Croats. What's the problem? If something's wrong, it's wrong, and Krsh-Paden is wrong. The Cross-Passed is a robbery, a robbery, it's a shame, it's a shame. Because of such projects, we now have under 4 million people because of such projects, harmful projects, guessings, corruption. And that's why Minister Coric, the minister of threat, the minister of corruption, the minister of energy threat, the minister of everything bad, and you invite him to resign. He'll resign, no prime minister, no more defending him, no more, he'll be gone, he'll be gone. You know very well that he has done enormous damage to the Republic of Croatia. All the time we've been talking here, here today I've given an amendment of 20 million kuna for a signal receiver that I can have because of a change in signals that have to buy citizens or a new television and that's your problem. And 600 million kuna is not your problem, it's not your problem. 600 million kunas were given to the Ve people, hey, and it was signed by Minister Maric without remorse and he defends it. And 20 million Minister Maric, 20 million for our pensioners, socially endangered citizens so they can watch TV, so they can buy a new receiver for it you don't have. Why don't you have one for that? So two-thirds of Croatia died out, 6% of the GDP of the evicted people that you've wasted the most quality people, then here for years they've boasted that you've had economic growth because you've wasted people who sent eus here to their families so they can survive. You made the Croatian people poor, and the Croatian people didn't deserve it, didn't deserve it, and then Minister Ćoric claims that he has to do everything as legally prescribed, not a triba, the Ministers signed the damage of 2 billion kuna against which citizens will pay, 2 billion, citizens for 2 billion, not millions, not 200 million, but 2 billion. And it is a pest that should leave the Croatian government immediately. You protect him, hold him, guard him, water him, comfort him, but it's all you. They ran after him... [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]] But when he's gone, you're gonna... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] After this historic speech and after saying that the people cannot be manipulated, Mr. Boris's manipulation expert really showed it. I would tell you, Mr. Boric, that first of all, I feel sad that there is no one from the government here, that you are not respected by parliamentary representatives,... It's from Minister Coric. Bring him home. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Where's Coric? Where are the ministers? So look how inconclusive it is to my colleague and colleagues, and Mr.... /Speakers speak at the same time./... to Mr. Prime Minister and this majority Mr. Boric for embellishment of reality he simply has this gift, he has this power of man to do it, but the fact that here he came and the minister showed up after a long time, the fact that this whole story we listen to and said by his colleague Grumoja, and colleague Kristo said everything in the opening statement on behalf of the promoter and he was absolutely 100% what she said was right as well as a colleague of Grumoja who cleared the whole situation. Minister Ćoric had the opportunity to stop this harmful project because the investor requested the re-purpose of the project as you say decreases in the number of pillars for the WE. Yeah, the number of reductions in the WE pillars, and... five times larger than they were predicted with a bigger one... and that's that story, but it costs 2 billion. And in that harmful form that brought Vrdoljak to the cabinet session, your coalition partner and then suddenly astounded Boric, Bačić you are all astounded at once how it is possible to find the left, the right. With you it is very easy, which left, which right, then in Croatia lives both left and right and people of all nationalities and Croats. What's the problem? If something's wrong, it's wrong, and Krsh-Paden is wrong. The Cross-Passed is a robbery, a robbery, it's a shame, it's a shame. Because of such projects, we now have under 4 million people because of such projects, harmful projects, guessings, corruption. And that's why Minister Coric, the minister of threat, the minister of corruption, the minister of energy threat, the minister of everything bad, and you invite him to resign. He'll resign, no prime minister, no more defending him, no more, he'll be gone, he'll be gone. You know very well that he has done enormous damage to the Republic of Croatia. All the time we've been talking here, here today I've given an amendment of 20 million kuna for a signal receiver that I can have because of a change in signals that have to buy citizens or a new television and that's your problem. And 600 million kuna is not your problem, it's not your problem. 600 million kunas were given to the Ve people, hey, and it was signed by Minister Maric without remorse and he defends it. And 20 million Minister Maric, 20 million for our pensioners, socially endangered citizens so they can watch TV, so they can buy a new receiver for it you don't have. Why don't you have one for that? So two-thirds of Croatia died out, 6% of the GDP of the evicted people that you've wasted the most quality people, then here for years they've boasted that you've had economic growth because you've wasted people who sent eus here to their families so they can survive. You made the Croatian people poor, and the Croatian people didn't deserve it, didn't deserve it, and then Minister Ćoric claims that he has to do everything as legally prescribed, not a triba, the Ministers signed the damage of 2 billion kuna against which citizens will pay, 2 billion, citizens for 2 billion, not millions, not 200 million, but 2 billion. And it is a pest that should leave the Croatian government immediately. You protect him, hold him, guard him, water him, comfort him, but it's all you. They ran after him... [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]] But when he's gone, you're gonna... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u12043	We have a replica of Honorable Representative Hajdukovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u12044	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleague Bulj, so I think it is good and evident that the suspicions of corruption will always unite us then it is irrelevant whether we are left, right, middle, upper, lower, then only matters the interest of Croatian citizens and, of course, you know how public money is spent and whether it is spent properly, whether it is in the interest of Croatia and whether it is in the interest of its citizens. But you criticized the minister's departure, but the HDZs themselves tell you that they don't care about this debate, this is the subject, they don't mind, this is something that we shouldn't discuss, this is, as they said, the most fantastic thing they've ever seen because they don't see the problem that, if they've signed unfavorable contracts for the Republic, they, they don't, they don't care, but in the end, it's the citizens who are going to judge them, not to tell them history.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u12045	Mr. Bull's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u12046	Well, that's right. When we talk here about subsidising 600 million kunas, 2 billion and 200 that will pay citizens out of their pockets, half local self-government, 50% of local self-government in the Republic of Croatia does not have the opportunity to provide children's kindergarten for one diet, half local self-government. And it's exactly where Krsh-Padjane is and there's no Milorad Pupovac. Why? Is lobbyist for this project, lobbyist. No colleague Jelkovac, why, not these colleagues from the SDSS, not you, they, they're in the east... Why aren't they here? [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's why my colleague Hajdukovic is only interested in them forever, there is no left, right, there are good differences both world view and ideological, but Croatian people like in my town, in my village, so in your live and live and right and like this and we have to fight together For the sake of these people. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u12047	The next replicas of the respected representative Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u12048	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellow Bull, speaking of masters of manipulation, I can't help but feel that you are my best. When you speak, run away from the facts, you say Minister Coric could have prevented us from paying 2 billion and 200 out of citizens' pockets, and I ask you why not before him did Minister Dobrovic? Because Minister Dobrović has adopted a solution in which he did not seek a new environmental impact study but sought a major assessment of acceptability for the environmental network does not mean that he prevented the project. So I don't understand how you're going to assess that the contract that was signed in 2013. Minister Coric's guilty and that he could have prevented that damage, and Minister Dobrović, who was the MOST minister, could not have done the same without him. Please explain.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u12049	Dear Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u12050	Really behind Branka Bačić's colleagues, Mr. Boric, you're one of them, so you could tell some who'll probably get a reward for best speeches, praises, praises, and you know you're saying that I'm telling the truth, you know. You know that Slaven Dobrović, then minister, later and my colleague here in, in, not that he signed that a certain change should be made, he signed it, he needs a study, a new study, he signed it and asked for it, and Minister Coric annulled the decision from the minister without any commission, self-initiativeally, says the phone, heard with DORH, I don't know if the DORH was the Mason, it wasn't, yet in the boxes of the Masonic, is that the conversation might have been in, in Slovenia 9, I don't know. And don't manipulate the public, 2/3 of Croatia are empty because of these projects, and that's true, the only truth. Your result is a democratic breakdown of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u12051	The next replica of the respected representative Tomislav Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u12052	Dear colleague Bulj, I will not praise nor defend anyone, for the replica prompted me in essence your statement about all those who were expelled from and the millions of euros they bring to Croatia for a reason because I recently met a acquaintance who also went out, came here, asked him what he was doing, he said he came to fix his teeth, so what's wrong with the dentists, doesn't say there is abnormally expensive. What am I saying? There is a lot of concern for citizens here in Croatia. In circumstances and conditions such as health care, of projects, of everything currently being built in this space, of huge infrastructure projects, of the huge EU funds that are attracted here, you never mention it, you're always saying something that's wrong. You've never mentioned in any discussion that anything in this country is right. Here's one example for you. What's wrong with that, [[Intruder: Thank you]] You came here to fix your teeth because it's abnormally expensive. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u12053	Dear Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u12054	Every stone in the Republic of Croatia is good, every stone is soaked in blood and I like my country. If you think that you are the only ones who deserve to hold your hand on your heart and say that you love your country, every stone is my dear, dear, from Dinara to, I don't know, equal Slavonia to every handful of land. I don't have a problem with that. And I only gave the most suggestions and amendments to all the budgets, check, I didn't just say, you voted against, I'm sorry, you know I'm right, you know if I know you're the mayor and you're the entrepreneur. I know you do. However, the harmful Krš-Padjana project and 2 billion that will cost citizens, and at the same time in that area, we do not have the possibility of a municipality and local self-government a kindergarten or having a dice school empty, all displaced and that's the problem, and you know what's denying you, that we went fat under 4 million In our beautiful country we love. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u12055	The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Dari Zurvec. Here you go. He's gone. He is losing his right to speak, so the next respected representative, Tomislav Tomislav Tomislavevic, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u12056	More than 6 hours of debate, and there are no main actors, and these are Minister Ćoric, and here, there are no more former Environment Ministers, colleagues Bacic, and neither are colleagues Boric who know all about environmental protection, so he knows that 48 aggregates are better than 72. And I don't know who's gonna answer what's here. I've been waiting six hours to say it individually. First of all, this impelation on the work of the government has been sent to the members of the government. If I'd got it signed just to get my colleagues out of HDZ right away, if I'd got it signed, I'd have signed it, but I didn't. Although it was announced that it would go, we said then that we would probably support it, but it was dedicated before I could sign it. Let's get that replica out of the way right now. Furthermore, the problem is the 2013 contract, it is problematic that a few days in the decision means whether someone will have 2 billion kunas more or less. That's problematic, so let's get ahead of ourselves. However, here is not Minister Vrdoljak, currently a member of the government, if he had, he would have said a lot to him now because that's how the whole story started, and I want to focus here on how the whole story ended and how it went on and why the minister in this government continued that story. After the minister started in the last government, that's what we're dealing with today. So, I'm curious as to why Minister Ćorić was in July, and this is the key to the debate, in July 2017 he brought a solution only 4 months old to the benefit of the 2 billion kuna investor CMP. He argues that he also did so to make it a benefit for the country from the perspective of nature and the environment and from the perspective that it would be a damage the investor would sue the state, that it would be great and that he had therefore to undo his predecessor's solution only 4 months old and did so on the 50th day after he became Minister for Environmental Protection. On the 50th day, it means with all the projects, with all the problems, with the waste management programme, with EU Commission foames, chaos still in waste management. The Constitutional Court suspended the decision, the Waste Management Regulation, nothing has been done since then, and all of this is less important than it is going to cancel a four-month-old solution. Why? That's what we want to deal with. And that's quite a coincidence, isn't it? Because it is a coincidence that it is precisely about the investment of the CEMP investor that the USKOK suspects along with a colleague of the Minister.../incomprehensible/... colleague of Minister Ćorić, and that is Josipa Rimac for taking bribes for the very project about applicable permits and other permits. Same coincidence. It's the same coincidence. And this is all happening for 2 weeks, Josipa Rimac was arrested, 2 weeks after the EU Commission said, the first time it initiated an infringement of an environmental regulation against Croatia, said it did not apply Croatia's European Habitats Directive because, I quote, Croatia systematically did not adhere to the Habitats Directive in approving changes to the projects, meaning even more specifically, wind power plants along the coast. So what they were supposed to write, she didn't stick to the Krš-Pađen project, only in detail, they could still write it, so the change of project related to the impact on the environmental network for wind power plants along the coast. So what else did they have to write besides that? And the DORH was consulted and decided to annul the solution. Why wasn't it allowed to be seen in court as to how this procedure would go? So the investor started an administrative dispute, so it's a normal thing when a solution is made, any ministry, the administrative dispute is being initiated. Why wasn't it waiting to see what the administrative court would decide? No, it was going too fast. After consulting with DORH. And for that, by chance, we don't have any written leads, no paperwork. They claim to have been oral consults. You don't even know who started them first, if the DORH asked the DORH Ministry or the DORH Ministry. But that's the only explanation, the only proof that the experts have been consulted. And aren't the experts at the Nature Protection Department? Are not experts in the Croatian Environment and Nature Protection Agency who asked for this assessment, the main impact assessment on the ecological network. And then the ruling of the administrative court is mentioned, which in fact confirmed that Minister Coric was right. Yes, the ruling of the administrative court in the Croatian judiciary where today a fugitive of the Mamic judiciary testifys in court as a credible witness from his escape, from another state. With video he testifies, this is the Croatian judiciary. And now you tell me that the decision, because it was the decision of the administrative court, regardless of the same BIOM association that requested the procedure since the environmental impact assessment was requested, contacted the EU Commission in December 2018 on this concrete project. And I said that's where the directive doesn't apply. And that is why the EU Commission has made the decision. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u12057	The next individual debate will be the respected representative of Hrvoj Zekanovic, please welcome [[No one replicates, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, buddy.]] [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u12058	Dude, you dropped this sponge on your microphone, And it costs the same, and it costs taxpayers something, right? [[Someone dropped this from the microphone part.]] So here we have been arguing for hours about the Windmill Krsh-Paden. [[Agreement: Here is my colleague Zekanovic.]] I was in a debate outside the club saying that this wind farm is no exception. All wind parks have a similar agreed tariff, or price. We are now discussing, we have the Interpletion on this, but we must note that all wind parks have a similar agreed tariff, and it's only a question I would like it, here's colleagues from the authorities and there's a minister here who hears that they understand, we will often try to get here from this pay phone which political point so little, we will go a little populism and we will provoke a little bit, but here he would try to understand from this debate that something bad is happening, that we have a suspicion of crime, a reasonable suspicion of crime, and that we have contracts that are extremely harmful to our country, for our people. So with the same money here's a colleague Bencic talking about it, we could solarize, she used a new verb, whether it's solarizing, a city the size of Rijeka or Osijek in a year if I'm not mistaken, it's calculated. Well, I'll agree to that calculation, solarize the entire country for a couple of years. And here we spend money, as much as we throw it into the wind and give it to who knows what investors and even most often these investors are not Croatia. Okay. This poor one came from Croatia in the end, he is now a Croatian player, but 80%, 90% of these investors are foreigners. And then we always have that same absurd. In Croatian air, on Croatian soil someone produces electricity and sells it again to Croatians, and we give it a favourable tariff and we pay him to sell it. It's really not something. It's not okay. And I'd like to finally start talking a little bit critical about the ecological aspect of wind parks. So, wind energy, at least as far as our Dalmatia is concerned, where most wind parks are, is not any ecological source of energy, given that it devasts the landscape, that it's very much destroying ornitofaun, but not only ornitofaun and that access routes needed to build wind parks require a great devastation of landscapes. All those who weren't in front of some wind power plant's aggregates leave will remain in shock. When I first went to the wind power plant, it means under the aggregates, and when I saw that aggregate of 100 and more meters, I was really shocked. It's about who sees it and feels it can't say it's about organic energy production. Environmental energy production would be one solar plant on the roof of a family house that would have a daily hundred kunas. And that's how the responsible minister should behave, the responsible government treats its property. I mentioned here that the ministry, which is the same thing as the lacmus paper pays and 20 euros per square metre in Zagrebtower, means where Minister Zmajlovic signed the first contract, Minister Kukuriku coalition, so I received a message that HACOM pays 24 euros five and a half thousand squares. More? Is that possible? Here's the minister laughing... Mr. Bukarica, he's looking forward to something today. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So 24 euros 5 and a half thousand squares, so let's count it out. I don't have a fellow Pavic to calculate how much that would be. That would be more than 100,000 euros a month, perhaps 120,000 euros, a colleague, Pavic, will calculate it. So it's about Croatian money, it's about money from Croatian taxpayers. And if the ministry and state agencies are throwing money away in such a way, it is no wonder that we have various private entrepreneurs who come into some gray zone that will use them in a way that is so flimsy Croatian ministers.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u12059	The next individual debate will be respected representatives of Dalia Oreskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u12060	Thank you. Indeed, what is the price of one minister, which is the price of the Prime Minister or Government as a whole. It's not small. We've known this since the Borg affair that the Croatian judiciary has never clarified, nor has it actually been dealt with. Your colleague, Boric, looked back at Mrs Bencic and said she blamed HDZ for everything bad that happened in this country. You should not have been accused of this by Sandra Bencic or a complete opposition, you should have been accused of it by the Croatian judiciary if you had it truly ineffective, independently and strongly. But it's not. That is why some things must be established by the Croatian Parliament. The Croatian Parliament must establish all disputed decisions of the resolution ministers, decisions of the regulatory bodies as well as of all others involved in this major corruption affair, which is only one in a series of those whose organiser and user this authority is in its continuity from the previous to the present one. And although this debate is formally conducted as an interpretation of government work related to the project wind power plant Krš – Fallen, it necessarily grows into much larger, much more important issues and this is the way this country operates. This case is only one in a series of smaller or more similar corrupt affairs not necessarily in the area of renewable energy sources, but similar to that resulting from the same genetic code. I will point out what I consistently and continuously repeat throughout my political action, and before the policy of the same thesis and the same conclusions, I also presented in my public and professional work, which is that corruption is the result of a corrupt state-owned and public body, a by-product of clientelistic and corrupt practices designed by large political parties and leave such models to be inherited by the authorities during the shift. In addition, the fact that a whole series of MPs today called for the fact that this project dates back 15 years and that, through its implementation, governments changed even to 6 different mandates and called on. It is clear from what counterpart Karolina Vidovic Kristo said today, whose exposure I commend. It is clear from what counterpart Ahmetovic said whose exposure I also commend that behind this corruption affair is also the minister behind me today, but also Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic. And it is also clear that the DORH will not investigate their involvement in this affair since it is euthanized. We know that from the moment the investigative measures broke, and after that, the state's chief attorney had cheeks and not enough self-awareness to respond to a call from the Prime Minister to chat and drink coffee with him on Saturday. The fact is that corruption is protected by the corrupt parliamentary majority. And as long as that's the case, he'll stay on whoever's in the pit. Unless we all get together and deal with much more important topics than the one that imposes the text of this interpretation itself, which are our strategic documents. If we are talking about the energy strategy, from what is publicly available, in fact, our citizens cannot know what direction is, what are the objectives, what measures are even imagined, and how public policies are implemented. It's obvious that it's not even imagined that they go to the citizens for their benefit. They go in favor of the privileged, for the benefit of those whose interests are decided in some secret clubs. It is neither the first nor the last, unfortunately nor the only. The problem of the Krš Padjana project is not that the competent authorities did not pay attention to whether the company... has the capacity to monitor and implement new technologies so that the costs for Croatian citizens are as low as possible and the efficiency of production plants as high and high as possible. The problem of this project is justifiable doubts that in a whole series of decisions taken by the restoring ministries there has been a corrupt advantage as well as a very certain circumstance that the criminal proceedings that are under way will take a long time and that the views of the need to protect the public interest will prove to be in fact completely in vain. What I'm really up for is that we finally accept the fact that this case is just one symptom, one little accidentally discovered example of a bad and corrupt way of managing the state and shows that the system as such is designed so designed that corruption and clientelism take place uninterruptedly and continuously. The case requires that not only a new renewable energy strategy be adopted, but also a new anti-corruption strategy.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u12061	Thank you very much. A colleague of Zekanovic's seemed to have raised my request for a break. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u12062	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, I demand a break from the Croatian Sovereigns' Club to further consult on the interpretation. So here we have a few key moments. One of the key moments that has crystallized is Mr. Vrdoljak and HNS and I think fellow MPs are interested here and let's hear maybe from the minister who stayed here with us, who's to blame. Is Minister Coric guilty today, or is it solely Mr Vrdoljak's fault, or is it your fault, or is it no one's fault? I think it's someone's fault. Another key point that we need to point out here is that citizens, viewers must know and remember that we here pay kilowatts of power twice as expensive as we can buy it on the European market. So, the kilowatt clock we pay 78 lips, while the world market can even be found at 32 lips. As for the ecological aspect of the wind power plants they are here we saw through the debate quite questionable. In other words, although this energy source is shown to be ecological, it is definitely not ecological since it is causing an exacerbation of landscapes, that it is causing landscape damage, and that it is also harmful to its own habitats and habitats. And when we talk about environmental impact studies and environmental impact studies, I call on the government's representative and representatives of the ruling HDZ and SDSS coalition, given that Mr Horvat and the ministry in front of the SDSS are in charge of nature protection resources, let them tell me what impact study on nature has fallen. Then I'll confirm and prioritize that they're all gone.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u12063	Thank you very much. Of course I'll give the Rules of Procedure a break, so I'll meet you back here at... Well, we still have a break. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here you are, the esteemed representative of Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u12064	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Representatives' Club, we are also looking for a break to reiterate what we have been saying all afternoon, which is that the Government of Andrej Plenkovic, that the environment minister did not favor the investor in the case of Krs Padjana. We are witnessing that one part of this project had its own judicial affair and we at the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community support the state bodies to examine all the circumstances around, independent state bodies thanking Hrvoja, to examine all the circumstances surrounding this case no matter where he went and who was covered by this same procedure. But we do not allow opposition representatives of the government or the HDZ or the Registrar without arguments to be placed here in the Croatian Parliament. Because we argue that the tariff system that allowed not only this project holder Krš Padjana but also the other 6 project-like carriers, and at the end of 2013, enabled them to sell Hrote electricity from renewable energy sources at a preferential price. I have to say that I am surprised that the green-left coalition here in HS today is questioning whether and how the Croatian state should have joined the EU energy package to produce a large part of electricity in Croatia from renewable energy sources and at that time it was the price [[Intruder: Thank you.]] and be justified or not, she was who she was. [[Thank you very much.]] HDZ didn't establish it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u12065	Thank you very much. Since I don't see anyone else looking for a break, I'll give it to you now, but you can't anymore, I mean, we're done with it now, right? ... All right, all right, here you go. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u12066	As soon as my colleague Bacic mentioned the green-left coalition, I took a break, ask your colleague if you don't believe me. So I'm looking for a 10-minute break on behalf of the Green-Left Block Club to consult further on this Interpellation, interpolation, means like this. [[Okay, well, here, go ahead.]] As for renewable energy sources, the green-left block considers the main answer to the energy of the sun, but, yes, the wind energy is also an important part for the energy transition, it is under a. Sub b, we disagree at all with counterpart Bačić, who was former environmental minister, so he knows what he's talking about. That the necessary reduction in the number of aggregates in this particular location means something better, automatically for nature. Why? Because it's the aggregates that mean, even though they're more modern, and they're stronger, so they're not more than 2 or 3 megawatts, they have a larger diameter of shovels, so it means 125 meters instead of 82 meters as far as it was in the old project and on the higher pillars, 118 meters, instead of 70 meters, as it was in the old project. And not only that, but they've changed the locations, each of them, the microlocations of each aggregate. Access routes are also changing, and all these data are based on studies that were made 10 years ago. About birds and fauna. It means to automatically argue that only a reduction in the number of aggregates means better for nature, not allowing the procedure in which it would be determined is definitely a benefit to the investor. Which is what the EU has also said because the same BIOM association that requested the evaluation eventually informed the EU Commission about, and on this basis, the EU Commission did not initiate the procedure. It was based on the remarks it received from Croatia. One of these comments was from the other BIOM. In particular, not just for this project but also for this project. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u12067	Does anyone else want a break as well? ... No, no, if he wants anyone else, you said yours, we all heard it. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Does anyone else want to hang out? Then no. Then I'll see you at 10:00. [[It's 9:00 P.M.]] [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING AT 22:00 HOURS]] Here's a esteemed colleague and colleagues, and now we have the rest of them, the remaining replicas of the presentation of the esteemed representative Oreshkovic, so the first replica is the esteemed representative of the Habian, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u12069	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleague Oreshkovic, here I would understand that it is one of the MPs or advocates who is not a lawyer, who is not a lawyer, so that he does not understand until the end the principle of presummation of innocence. However, you, as an ex-legislator, as a lawyer and as former chairman of the Committee on Conflict of Interest, should certainly know that. You're investigating here, you're accusing here, ultimately you're condemning here, calling here "the corrupt majority", you're talking about corruption, etc., I think that's the least said quite worrying. You're also talking and talking about research, why you're going through impelation, so you have the possibility of an investigative commission, explore, search for documentation, but at the same time you're talking about corruption. It's simply your fixation on HDZ, the charges on HDZ, the epithets that you're sharing with all your colleagues here are really below each level. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u12070	The answer of the respected representative Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u12071	Dear MPs, MPs, I am not throwing away the rest of the opposition to HDZ as a political party, it was done by your members with a whole series of corruption affairs in which they participated. I agree with you, there is something called the principle of presummation of innocence, but there is also something called political responsibility, and there is something else called inefficient and dysfunctional justice, that is the number one Croatian problem. For such a situation in the judiciary, the most responsible is the power that is 30 years old, let's just say, we'll take away those 8 when the SDP ruled, had the opportunity to build laws, build institutions, set up our own people in those institutions. If it were different then there would have been more of those cases if we could say a proven situation is a corrupt, corrupt action. We'll see how your former Prime Minister Ivo Sanader goes. You cannot call for a presummation of innocence, establish political responsibility. As for the interpretations, a single initiative in HS was launched How did you react to her? [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u12072	The next individual debate is the respected representative of Nikola Grumoja. He's gone, he's losing his right to speak, so the next individual will be debated by the esteemed representative Arsen Bauk, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u12073	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I have to admit, we're in a rarely contradictory situation. So, 20 MPs from the Homeland Movement and MOST have given an interpretation asking the government of the Republic of Croatia to deliver some documents and we support it. And then the president of the HDZ Club says about the following that you asked nicely, you would get it, but when you're so arrogant and rudely looking for it, you won't get it, which, of course, gave us an argument that we voted for the impelation because it's logical if you gave it to them, but you won't because they didn't humbly pray, then we have to give it to them because they didn't humbly ask the HDZ government, that's one very clear logic. My colleagues have instructed, in my opinion, the interpretation motivated by the Krsh-Pade case because of what was happening to the lady. A Roman. I'm sure there wasn't that case that they wouldn't have made an impelation for Krsh-Paden, very likely. What is the government's defence line by HDZ? The defense line is approximately the following, if something was wrong with them, it happened in 2012 and the year '13. during the time, the alleged signs of the government of Zoran Milanovic. And the wording of the Government of Zoran Milanovic is the second in fact a name or another way this communication on the subject, it happened during our coalition partner Ivan Vrdoljak was a minister, and the entire HNS structure was in that part concerning these renewable energy sources. I'll try to explain, so you're talking about one Bermuda triangle where they smoke, blow all those winds, CHOT, HERA and the Ministry of Economy. All three of the tops of that triangle, none of them have anything to do with the SDP. The Minister of Economy at the time was Mr. Vrdoljak, who proposed to the government this tariff system from October 2013, the director of CROTE was a certain Mr. Županić, a pito minister, and I went googlat, of course, the one who signed the Croatian People's Party, the Liberal Democrats, in his property card, on the last day of 2013. So if he hadn't signed them, what, January 1st would have been cheaper this and the state would have paid less. So it's very logical for a gentleman to ask why you signed it on 31.12. If it was 1.1, it would be less money for the state. If he won't be asked by the state's attorney's office, let him ask him an investigative commission, we don't have a problem with it, here, if, if that's your idea, if you do it, I can't wait for that gentleman to come here so we can ask Mr. Vrdoljak, then the whole hierarchy. And the third, third peak of that triangle was certain, or not certain, so Mr. Jurekovic, who was appointed to the post, was also appointed in 2013, and was appointed in 2014. in HS. I will quote one part of the debate: “I must say that this seems to be the right man in the right place, at least as far as competence is concerned. ” During the debate on his appointment, MP Djuro Popijac, who spoke on behalf of the HDZ Club, then the opposition party, said. So it was such a good government proposal that even HDZ needs to praise it. So I don't think it's the smartest tactics or at least the right tactics to switch that kind to so-called. The government of Zoran Milanovic. When I say so-called. I don't think that the government was so-called, but that the formulation you're using to avoid the mention of its coalition partner, which Mr. Shakespeare himself said was praised by him from several checkpoints to go to 2017 with you in the coalition that it wasn't the smartest thing to do, that you'll always get an answer there, and you'll get it from the promoters of MOST, from the Homeland Movement and from us, and that here in the last 30 seconds I'll try to conclude. So, the SDP club will vote for the conclusion proposal. If we were to agree with everything that's written in the interpretation, maybe not, but if Mr. Bacic had already said to get those contracts, then we would really be ideologically blinded if we hadn't voted for something that you would give, they would only suggest it because the right party suggested it. Right? So that kind of ideological blindness we haven't had since the historical declaration from the 1990s that Racan suggested.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u12074	Thank you very much. We have a replica of the respected representative Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u12075	Thank you very much. Comrade Bauk, today we have seen from the stand-up of HDZ MPs - that HDZ is actually affected by the fact that the entire opposition stood together in the fight against corruption. What fell into my eye, no HDZ coalition partner today stepped in defense of nor Minister Cocric, nor the government of the Republic of Croatia. Why is that? Is it because they don't believe in fairy tales that are being taken out of their side here today or because they're transparent? Please tell me your opinion.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u12076	Dear Representative Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u12077	As far as their behaviour is concerned, it may best describe Ali Izetbegovic's statement in '92. For years, I quote, "It's not our war." It's really not their war. It may be HNS, but we'd be in the way, we'd be in the way. These HSLS, the SDSS, they'll support it because it doesn't matter to them. I'm more interested in one other thing. So they put into debate the plenary session of the impelation submitted by the Homeland Movement without any business obligation. So, one would say they're smoking, I don't know which wind they're blowing, it's one song, "Are we always going to do that"? So until 15 days ago, they were sponsors of terrorism and hate speech spreaders, and now they put it as a point with nothing caused. Well, you've got the agenda points all you want. Is that how you're gonna put our interpretations? We'll write them. If you're going to put them on, we'll write them. And as for the coalition partners, here I can, Mr. Vice President...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u12078	Thank you. And now we're going to go to the closing words on behalf of the representatives' clubs. First, the Green Left bloc representative club, the respected representative Tomislav Tomašević.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u12079	To proceed immediately to the last debate, what came into my eye, is that this debate began at three o'clock in the afternoon. Because I can't see, if you think in HDZ and that the Prime Minister wasn't even defending his minister today. So, we saw when you think in HDZ that the arguments on your side are what it looks like, the debate begins in the morning to see all the media, the prime minister is here all day in the Parliament and that's what it looks like. This is what it looks like to me, though, if the arguments are on your side that you put up the debate at three o'clock in the afternoon. So it's 10 hours past we're still discussing, there's no media, and the arguments are on your side. Yeah, yeah, yeah. We've seen what it looks like when you think the arguments are on your side. I'll be right back. So, as far as I'm concerned, Here's what they still get me to tell the truth. [[/Intruder Reiner: Please, colleagues and colleagues, let our colleague Tomašević say what he wants, especially what he will tell me that his time has been taken even though his time stands. Here you are, colleague Tomašević.]] If you weren't telling the truth, I don't know if you'd talk at all. Well, let me get back to the subject. So, as far as the platform is concerned, we can use renewable energy sources as key to green transition. However, in these renewable energy sources, we give priority to the energy of the sun. Why? Because we can decentralize the energy system, because we can have local property easier, because we can have smaller projects, more smaller projects than wind power plants where they're usually big projects. For another reason, we support wind power plants unlike colleagues of others who spoke to the right-hand side of the spectrum today, we support wind energy. However, everything depends on the project and therefore serves as an environmental impact assessment and therefore serves to assess the impact on the ecological network. Because maybe your colleagues don't know what they're not dealing with. However, each procedure in the environment is then influenced and decided whether a project and procedure from three key aspects will be allowed. One aspect is the location of the procedure, the other is the technology used and the third aspect is the size of the procedure and the capacity. So, specifically for energy facilities, a specific location is viewed whether it is good for the environment or not for nature, whether the technology proposed is the best possible for that location and whether that capacity is the same, that size of the project for that location is appropriate or not. And if it's not, the project's being rejected. If so, compensation measures are required to reduce environmental impact and nature. That's the whole point. So, specifically, I'm completely rejecting that just reducing the aggregates because this project has changed, has changed significantly compared to the old project in 2007. That first project didn't even have the same total strength. He had it then, then he had 110 megawatts in his first project, so it says everything in the solution, quote from the solution. And then later he only went to 144 megawatts, or 142 megawatts, only later. But I'm going to repeat just a reduction in the number of aggregates in this particular project means also a change in the microlocation of each of these aggregates means also increased wind turbine blades, meaning higher pillars, means also access routes by about 10 kilometers. It's all in the solution. I quote everything from a solution that's on the website of the Ministry of Environmental Protection. So that doesn't have to mean, and what I'm saying is based on the information that came from 2007, and that's also the BIOM Association and said in a comment that they're looking for, they're looking for a major impact assessment on the environmental network to see if this project has an impact or not, and if there's a way to reduce that impact. What was the problem was that it was allowed because Minister Dobrović made the decision, and then Minister Coric came and said in four months it won't be like that. Why did the DORH allegedly say that this would result in damage to the Republic of Croatia? I want to know exactly how much that damage would be. What would be the certainty that, because it might wait to see what the administrative court would say about the suit and the administrative dispute of the investor. So what is amazing to me is that there is no written clue for such an opinion of the DORH that it is required to annul the solution made by the previous minister, arguing that this will result in damage to the Republic of Croatia because the investor will sue her for damages. And for that, there's no written clue, it's amazing to me. So I repeat, every wind power plant project needs to be looked at for itself in terms of location, technology and in terms of capacity or size, and only then can we assess whether it is good or not for that location and if it is not possible to compensate somehow for these negative impacts.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u12080	Thank you very much. It was probably a lapse, it was megawatts, not megabytes as much as I know about electricity. But here, finally, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, the respected representative Branko Bačić will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u12081	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I will finally say a few words, but before I do, I must refer to my colleague Bauk's discussion. counterpart Bauk did not transfer the HDZ to the SDP government and then President Zoran Milanovic. You know who did this? Together, you were then a minister, in this House the first one to talk about it was I don't know if she was still your member, for a time there was a minister, Mrs. Holly, and then she was the president of the Orah, and now she was probably on the list again. I don't know if she's still in the SDP, but she was clearly calling the government back then that the then prime minister of the state had directed his brother Krešimir Milanovic to intervene around the OIV of renewable energy sources, and at the time he was in a business relationship with Mr. Inja Bašić, who is the brother of Mr. Bašić, who owns the Cemp, and that was that time, and that was her on several occasions and in the media, googling it when you were already googling before Mr. Ivor Zupanić so googling it and you'll see it. So it wasn't us, and I was, in fact, the chairman of the Environmental Protection Committee. I didn't deal with this project so much, I have to say, but I've been dealing with another project that I was more interested in, and it was an untransparent and illegal way of calling for competitions for the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons. It's another thing. I didn't say that we, that the government said she didn't accept the interpretation we support it. But what you're looking for we can't stop you, but you're looking for it the other way. You can, I'm all of this HERA's decisions I googled on HERA's web pages and I shouldn't have asked anyone at all. So you can also ask not the government to deliver any decisions, but type in, enter the Ministry's pages, everything will open up nicely for you. As far as HROTE is concerned, it can be asked of CROTE they will give it to you and HBOR will give it to you. Therefore, there is no dispute at all. No one will stop you from getting those documents. But after you ask her to deliver to you the government that in that same project you're telling her that she's corrupt, that she's favored here, etc. As far as the Krš Padjana project itself is concerned, I say, and I was saying this introducely on behalf of the club, there it is, in fact, in those two months, in the last two, three days and in 2013, nine projects were signed. Of those nine, they're all realised, they're all realized. There are only three within the time limit from the first... Hera. The rest didn't and without the government they realized everything. If Minister Dobrovic's decision remained that Krs Padjani needed a new assessment, the main assessment of the project's acceptability on the environmental network should be asked if they would continue according to the old project. Along the way when we talk about these 71 pillars, I'm sorry that there is no Mr. Zekanovic here, he says that when he goes home that is above Sibenik and Vodice is an illustration at night of a large number of pillars, wind of aggregates. We're his now, he actually got his hands on it. It's smaller now, smaller now. You can imagine what his illusion would be if there were 28 more pillars next to these 43. So when he talks about protecting nature in this way, he needs to be answered. As far as the price goes, I'm surprised at Mr. Tomasevic, who stands up like a green-left block. It seems to me more and more like it's going to be a left block, and that green one's going to get executed somewhere, that he's talking about how he appreciates it, how and how he falls. Prices were high. That's when they were justified. The more the system developed, the cheaper new technologies came in, the cheaper they were projects, and for a time it was 71, and 53. Now we're going to the auction system, to the premium system, and that's okay, that's understandable. If today from this position they saw how much it cost me a car 40 years ago and today, it was both the sky and the earth, and I guess you get that. I don't know why you're doubting it at all, and the fact that someone has at some point estimated that they can meet these conditions that he received from HERA with a smaller number of wind generators, the ministry has estimated that this is acceptable from the aspect of nature protection. You're saying there's no DORH findings there. But there are two courts that have confirmed the ministry's position on appeal of the Green Action.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u12082	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u12083	I haven't been able to tell you everything until the end, but I just...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u12084	Finally, the Honorable Representative Bulj will speak on behalf of the Representatives' Club of the Independent Lists Bridge.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u12085	Here I would like to thank the lady who wipes all day in front of us the cathedral, first of all. My colleagues and colleagues. Here we have listened to the praises, I think Mao Ce-tung has listened as from colleagues Bačić, you are the first prize, not far from you Boric, colleague Jelkovac, but I ask you once again, where is your Pupovac coalition partner, where is the Shimpraga who releases... the parish of Sibenik-Knin County in the coalition with the HDZ SDSS? Where are they? All day long here he talks about the problems of the Sibenik-Knin County, and he neatly raises his hands against projects of development, social development for the Sibenik-Knin County, its party your coalition partner. And there's no Jack's, and I can see that the lady ran away, and she and she sees what she's getting herself into. However, Milorad Pupovac, a colleague of Bačić, has been well-defiled, obviously, so that he simply doesn't need to come out to cry for this pay phone theatre as he represents the interests of the Serb national minority, regardless of what these people don't even have water supply in the area where HE is above their houses, nor he is before the people of the Serbian national minority in the area, nor is he interested in it. It is a business-related man with several hundred votes taking up office here, three parliamentary representatives so you allowed him and thus managed the Croatian State to harm, to the detriment of repeating the Croatian people. And the results are visible, the only result is visible according to the number of inhabitants. These areas where you are now building VE, where you encourage your political sponsors above all because surely political sponsors tell you colleague Bačić that he was not interested in this project at the time when he was chairman of the board. It's as if bigger bags are in the second project, it will be. You weren't interested in the project, you weren't interested in this project that caused the greatest damage to my Dalmatian Zagora, my Dalmatian Zagora, you board president were. So we pay you a billion and a half kuna without Krsh-Paden a year, we pay subsidies a yearly people, and that people have nothing. No kindergarten, no transportation organized, no literally nothing. These people do not have incentives for their agriculture, but they get incentives from those who, first of all, have opened the OPGs in Zagreb and literally what I say do not know what a cow looks like, get incentives in these areas. That area is dying out. Two-thirds of Croatia are literally extinct, and if we don't step aside, we MPs and if we don't stop dealing about these things on live, right, green, cafes, colorful or whatever, I think the Croatian people have the right to declare this Parliament an institution that doesn't work in the interests of the people. And all we can do is defend the interests of the people. I'm a man who's been alive for 13 years I stayed behind the Storm and Knina to work, 13 years as an employee, an officer of the 4th Brigade and this area to me especially after the birth of my children I think even this behind any time I saw with Dinara... The dinars in the direction of the Peacocks when I saw Knee's busiest day. Yesterday, when I walked from the direction of Sinj from Polaca when I saw these very gromads that have no interest in the Croatian people, it was not Končarova VE that was once owned by the state, which Končar had and somehow targeted my house, if it's in the interest of the people, if it's in the interest to win, and this is just sucking out pockets. And not just those regulatory agencies you're talking about, HERA, but that's the teleoper issue. Today there was a problem of 20 million kuna for people of our pensioners and with difficult social situations for that receiver, it's a big problem for the minister. He tells me himself it's a problem. And you forgave the teleoperators, for forgiving those who have a 40% profit in the Republic of Croatia for 50% frequency fees, that's 100 million a year, and they have 40% profit in the Republic of Croatia, 40% while for the 5G network Deutsche Telekom had to pay 2.17 billion in the German state, and in our teleoperators... /The speakers speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u12086	Thank you very much. We have one violation of the Rules of Procedure raised by a respected representative of Bačić. What did the Rules of Procedure get hurt in?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u12087	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. He's been injured. 238. The Rules of Procedure because Mr. Bull accused me of carrying bags. Mr. Bull, you know very well that I didn't carry the bags and you're always muddying me with the same thing. Everything I've done in my life has been in accordance with the law. But Mr. Bulj, remember one thing, as a Croatian defender, I, as a Croatian defender, have never abused my defence privilege, got an apartment for 20,000 euros from the MORH, and sold it for 80,000 euros. And everything I've done today and before has always been in accordance with the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u12088	Okay, I'd like to ask you, let's not start with the injuries of the Rules of Procedure now, because I'm going to take away the word from all of those, you all have warnings already, all of you have warnings about it, don't do it because I don't really have one or two left. I'll give you an hour's break. I really have to admit it gets on my nerves when you start abusing the conscious institution of a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, ma'am. Vidovic Kristo. Don't yell from the scene, give it to you at last, not to you, but to my colleague Bulju, finally behave once. Here you go, ma'am. Kristo.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u12089	I didn't get any injuries, or I didn't get any notice, and now I want to hurt the Rules of Procedure. 238, but I didn't hear you warn your colleague Bačić. If it wasn't for the bags then it must have been about the black funds and the money you kept in the drawer, even for a year and two days, and you never answered for it. I'll get a warning, but it's my first.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u12090	You'll get a warning of course, but don't do it, it really doesn't make sense, it really doesn't make sense. He didn't accuse anyone else, you directly accused him. Excuse me, I'm asking you nicely, please don't do this. Here you go, buddy Bull, you're also picking up... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u12091	Thank you very much. My friend Bačić, that you were carrying the bags, I'm 20 years old, when I was 20. He was an active officer and got an apartment as an active officer and bought it, bought it to a colleague of Bačić, and you were carrying bags full of EUR million to Ivy Sanader, and you didn't know that they were EUR million, and that, yes, they were millions.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u12092	Comrade Bull, you haven't even called, I'm giving you a warning by taking away your words. Based on an article. In 240th century, I give you a reminder by taking away the word until the end of the debate on this subject. Based on an article. 241st century 1st, I give you a distance from the session, please step outside. Please step outside. There's no second. [[Clip intrusion: Just a second]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u12094	Mr. Vice President of the Assembly, knight of Jerusalem's grave, I am full of your trespasses and your servants to Karamark, Kosorica, all of them.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u12095	Based on an article. In 241st century 3, I give you a measure of distance from the double-term session.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u12096	I'm sorry that you haven't met me in a month, but you've got the legitimacy of the knight of the Jerusalem grave that it's amazing.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u12097	All right, now, I'm gonna give you 15 minutes off before we move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u12098	That's the knight of Jerusalem's grave, that's the hero, the Istanbul knight. It's 10:00 P.M.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u12099	Dear colleagues and colleagues are running out of time, so finally, on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, the Honorable Representative Arsen Bauk will speak. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 22.45 HOURS]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u12100	I thank the esteemed Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here, after almost eight hours, because there's a final exposure, so those who haven't spent their replicas can replicate it. Are we anything smarter than knowing about the issue of wind power plants and Krš – We have not fallen, because we have mostly heard everything we have had or read in what the competent state authorities have discovered in the investigation or had the opportunity to hear about what the media have already written, and political parties have used in their discussions. So, on behalf of the HDZ Club, finally said counterpart Bacic, so in 24.6.2015, indeed, colleague Holly mentioned her conversation with the then Prime Minister in the context of a request to receive his brother for a meeting. She also said that she asked for nothing, but also said that it was related to some kind of channel on Pag, Pag – Košljun, and other projects, not specifically to these. On 31.3.2016, she also mentioned renewable energy sources, which was on the HRT website, on which Croatian Radio Television asked SDP and spokeswoman, Mrs Juričić then referred to the former minister of Vrdoljak. For information from colleague Bačić, Mrs Holly was our candidate on the list for the European Parliament and candidate on the list for the Croatian Parliament in the first constituency and, in any case, since you mentioned it here in a positive context, I also hold it as a positive context for the entire SDP. What is interesting, though, is that the thing that members of your party today mentioned to the coalition government of the SDP have already been in the media several times. So, you didn't, in this sense, learn nothing new from what was in the media today, and the very fact that it was public and relatively well known and used in political debates, and that the authorities did not initiate any procedure shows that this is not the case, however, as was the case here involving Mrs. Rimac and Mr. Basic where the Mr. from HERA who are now under investigation. In fact, therefore, Mr. Basic, who is under the influence of the Croatian judiciary, and I think he has now spoken to us in Bosnia and Herzegovina and defends the minister. I'm not saying that this defense isn't worth anything, but the situation is relative to our government or our party in my opinion much better than it is for part of the nomenclature of the current government, however it would like to be shown, of course, after 8 hours of each other attacking each other. So, first Mrs. Kristo said in the introduction that they had all started SDP and HNS and then looked back at HDZ and HNS and SDSS. You HDZ also attacked them to politicise us that we were in the government, and we were also defending ourselves, and I don't think citizens will get a good impression after this debate. But every debate is useful, because those who want to do bad things will at least in some way deter from doing it because it can also be the subject and debate in the Croatian Parliament which is not a very much of them an excessive problem, but also the interest of investigative bodies, DORH, USKOK and police which could be a bit of a bigger problem. Let me get this straight. Since the interpretation requires the adoption of the conclusions that the Croatian Government is obliged to deliver all relevant agreements to the Croatian Parliament within 15 days, decisions relating to the wind farm Krš – Padjene, which means the state of the windman's documentation on the day of signing the contract with HROT, all permits, consent, etc., the contracts of extensions of those concluded between the windmen of HROT and the decision of the Supervisory Board and the HBOR Administration do not see anything controversial. And we will vote in favour of the proposal of these conclusions, so if your fellow conclusions don't pass you by the law on the right to access information or on the Internet what Mr. Bacic said you would get.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u12101	Thank you very much. And now, on behalf of the promoter, she will speak to the esteemed representative Karolina Vidovic Kristo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u12102	Ladies and gentlemen, this debate has shown that there are two parallel Croatias in Croatian society, one of the ruling political elites, the judiciary and the mainstream media and another solid, working Croatia decommissioned from this first Croatia, which it still has to finance. An attempt to defamation and pretentious ridicule by individual HDZ representatives can be characterized by an old Latin proverb "Smart from the laughter of the half-wits cannot be defended". Just a few facts that are so exact that there's no room for any interpretation. The government of Andrej Plenkovic reports that on the basis of a construction permit for 55 wind generators each had a power of 2 MW, which means a total of 110 MW CROTE signed 3 total power contracts of 142 MW. So it's been established that the building permit was 110 MW, and the contract was signed for 142. Point. Therefore, the contract is illegal because the tariff provisions and the Law on Renewable Energy are a powerful building permit for the acquisition of a privileged producer and the conclusion of an electricity purchase contract. So, the 2013 Treaty is illegal. In order to determine this fact, there is no need to have more than 4 primary school classes. And Mr. Ćorić, Marić, Plenkovic, Vrdoljak, Pupovac, you knowingly violated the laws, consciously favored the individual and knowingly damaged Croatian taxpayers. However, this debate can be put into certain historical contexts that the governing structures need to be very well pictured. Although you are aware of the fact that the people are getting worse, as did the sparrows on the branch, they know how the judiciary is working out of today's debates by HDZ MPs is telling you an unprecedented level of pride. The last DDR chief, Erich Honecker, said before the fall of the Berlin Wall, that the DDR was one of the world's ten most developed countries. So today you claimed this project was clean, and you have the fact that the owner of the project is on the run from Croatian authorities. And you defend it as if you are not aware that the Croats from their own country are fleeing not only because of their indifference, but also because of injustice, and you are calling for the DORH and the administrative court. If it wasn't sad, it would be really funny. Something similar to when the President of the Constitutional Court, Sheparovic, otherwise the godfather of Vladimir Seks, is the ruler of the same judiciary, and Branko Bacic is his best man. There's all the godmothers. So sheparovic argues that JNA has been hired through a public tender, and a judge in Yugoslavia says he has become a public tender. Now that's what I'm gonna end up with. The level of credibility of the competition in Yugoslavia is equal to the credibility of your call for judicial bodies in the case of Krš Padeden. This way, I urge you to adopt a request from impelation and deliver all the documentation because once you have to know, through this and this kind of corruption, we will no longer cross. You can refuse this interpretation, and then I'm already announcing to you that we won't stop, but we'll also internationalize your corruption, so if there's a civil protest to be organised, even a referendum. I promise you we won't stop but we will end savage corruption and impoverishment of Croats.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u12103	Thank you very much. We have a replica of the respected representative Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u12104	I would just like to end up going back to perhaps what was the taste of this debate, which is that today it is unequivocally found that when the decision was taken to abolish the solution of its predecessor Minister Ćorić did not apply the legal framework of the Republic of Croatia and violated the law and regulation framework which also includes a habitat directive which is part of the Croatian internal law. This was directly apart from violating the law and causing the infringement procedure initiated by the European Commission this year and for which we will be able to pay the fines also enabled the realization of the project and the retention of the status of the privileged electricity producer in the 2013 tariff and thus broke out of the pockets of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia at least 1.2 if not up to 2 billion kuna over the next 14 years. In our opinion, this fact is sufficient for the political responsibility of Minister Ćorić whether it is corruption of convenience or bad governance. I hope you understand that and everyone sitting here.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u12105	Thank you very much. We have one violation of the Rules of Procedure, the respected representative of Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u12106	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Here's another article in 238 that we now had the opportunity to hear "cadiya and sue" by Mrs. Bencic said the verdict. She did not say how many years in prison, but here we were waiting for this moment for the lady to say who was responsible and that the legal system of the Republic of Croatia was not applied. They probably applied it in their own way and convinced us all day that it was... all false, with false accusations to be convincing. Nothing. Just nothing but a fake.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u12107	Col. Boric, of course, is not a violation of the Rules of Procedure, and you are aware of that. You're getting a warning. The answer of the respected representative Vidovic Kristo.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u12108	Thank you, Comrade Bencic. Yes, I agree, but I would add not only Minister Coric but also Minister Zdravko Maric and Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic. We can, of course, add all those other actors we've mentioned since the beginning, meaning since 2013. Some will say since 2007. I think it's important and we believe today we showed the Croatian public that really corruption is neither left nor right. It is a cancer-earth Croatian society and is on us as parliamentary representatives, as individuals deprived of any of these ideological problems and a sign to fight for the well-being of every Croat in this country to create a better state.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u12109	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate on this point. We'll vote on it when the conditions are met. And now we move to the next point, which is: - Report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission Please the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission of Mr Robert Jankovics to submit the report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u12116	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. The mandate-immunity committee had two sessions, we will report on two different decisions, or two different proposals that we table to this Assembly. The mandate-immunity commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 8th session held on 5 November 2020 a proposal by the SDP of Croatia for the appointment of Deputy Representative Rajko Ostojic, who submitted to the president of HS by act of 3 November 2020. The commission found that the stay of MPs' term of office for MP Rajko Stojić was the foundation of the article. 1st century. 1st century. 1st century. 1st century. 1st century. 1st century. Law on election of MPs in HS began on 14 October 2020. SDP of Croatia in accordance with Article No 42st century 3. The law on election of MPs in HS has set Domagoja Price for Deputy Representatives. The commission found that in the 2nd election unit, there are no candidates with won preferential votes on the candidate list with several political parties. This meets the law lays down the conditions for the start of the conduct of the deputy representative of Domagoj Price. Following the abovementioned Mandate-Immunity Commission under Article. 14th century 2nd and Article 2nd of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 11th and 42nd centuries 3. The law on election of MPs in HS unanimously proposes that HS decide on the start of acting as deputy deputies. Member of the Commission 9th century 2. The Rules of Procedure of the HS will begin to act on the day when the Assembly determines the legal assumptions for the application of the Exchange Institute.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u12117	I thank the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. ... Sorry, we're going together. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u12118	The second decision, therefore, is the Mandate-Immunity Commission of the Croatian Parliament, discussed at the 9th session held on 10 November 2020 the request of the attorney of the private prosecutor of the Croatian Luttria d.o.o. from Zagreb, addressed to the president of HS for the authorisation of the initiation of criminal proceedings against Davor Bernardic, a representative in HS, for the offence of the libel of art. 149.St. 1st and 2nd. Penalty law. Davor Bernardić is a representative of the 10th meeting of HS and based on art. 76. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the The Rules of Procedure of the HS shall have immunity and, without a decision by the HS against the MPs, no criminal proceedings may be initiated or conducted. No discussion of the Mandate-Immunity Commission of the Croatian Parliament on the basis of Article. 116. The Rules of Procedure of the HS unanimously proposes that HS take a decision, during the term of the parliamentary term of office, the authorisation to launch a criminal proceedings against MP Davor Bernardic at the request of the attorney of the private prosecutor of the Croatian Luttria d.o.o. from Zagreb on a lawsuit filed by the Municipal Criminal Court in Zagreb on 5 October 2020, received under the number K-1880/20 for the offence of the libel of art. 149.St. 1st and 2nd. Penalty law. The Court of Justice of the Croatian Parliament held that, at the request of the DORH as an independent and independent judicial body which is required to act against the perpetrators of criminal offences and other criminal offences, HS should propose to grant authorisation for the initiation of criminal proceedings in order to enable the Constitution and the law to carry out the judicial authority independently and independently. However, in the case of private prosecutors, it is mainly about the criminal acts of libel and the offensive commission has taken the view that HS will propose a denial of approval. In particular, it is the Commission's view that the Institute of Immunity of the Rights established in order to protect the dignity of the agent, not in order to protect the representative as an individual, and that the conduct of the criminal proceedings, as well as any actions that could be taken in connection with this, could also prevent representatives from acting as his regular representative of the office and thus affect the work of HS. The criminal proceedings may continue after the term of office has expired, given that the statute of limitations does not run until there are reasonable reasons why the proceedings cannot be carried out.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u12119	I thank the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. I am opening a debate on these two proposals, the Honorable Representative Arsen Bauk reported finally on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u12120	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Sometimes this dry legal term is actually a very life-long, private prosecutor Croatian lottery. I will repeat, the private prosecutor of the Croatian lottery. Croatia's lottery is usually a state-run company that the director tries to privatise in a way that he personally felt offended and defamed by then SDP President Davor Bernardic in dealing with then and current Prime Minister Plenkovic and because he said something about Croatia's lottery on the director who reported a bonus in the property card, this one decided instead of suing him as a private person, which he has the right to sue and, ok, decided to use the Croatian lottery funds to pay the lawyer for the lawsuit to the opposition leader at the time. That's outrageous. So, I think the director should be replaced and sent to a course of parliamentary democracy and the political system and freedom of speech. Have him sue him privately. I'm not sure that people started to bet less, less to pay the lottery, I don't know what else, take out the lucky ones because they felt because of this confrontation because there was a breach of reputation and the defamation of the state company private prosecutor Croatia lottery. I actually want to say that Croatia's lottery with its director's behaviour has introduced a new game of luck, which is a Russian roulette with freedom of expression, so now that we're talking about Croatia's lottery like this gun over its head with one bullet and we never know if in that Russian roulette with our freedom of expression, the director will decide to sue us for criticising it, and then one shot will be empty, and one bullet will probably be full. That's where it came from. That's where the Director's insult came from. I invited the president of the Croatian lottery assembly today to talk to the man, to explain to him that it is not his, it is the private prosecutor of the Croatian lottery, but it is a state-run company, that it is not his company, that neither he nor the lottery of it are defamed, nor, nor have any harm, but well, after the end of the term of Mr Bernardic may be willing, and perhaps not determined in court, perhaps the new administration of the Croatian lottery will not be so thin. But I just want to say that this is really outrageous. So, are you aware of what happened? The head of the state-owned company's money in parentheses that would otherwise be used for humanitarian purposes because the lottery benefits its income and decided to spend it on the humanitarian purpose of reducing the mental pains of the director because the head of the opposition in one confrontation, in his opinion, defamed him. So whoever slandered you sues for his money, not ours. Dear colleagues and colleagues, it's late hours, and I think it's getting more or less clear, and I wish you good night and the SDP Club will support both MIP reports, and the third one for Grmoya once it's on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-10-0.u12121	Okay, that concludes the debate and this point, we'll vote on it when we get the conditions. We'll continue to work tomorrow at 10 o'clock voting on discussed points. I wish you a pleasant rest of the night. SECURE Interrupted at 23.07 p.m.
