ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u202863	Mr. President, distinguished MPs and MPs. So, the government of the Republic of Croatia has established a proposal to appoint Zlato Hrvoj Šipek as chief state attorney. As 19 officials know, the chief state attorney resigned, after which HS made a decision to resolve the chief state's attorney. According to a new procedure prescribed by the New Law on State Attorney's Office, the State Attorney's Council has issued a public invitation where it has given a 30-day deadline for interested candidates who meet the conditions of the public. After 6 candidates came forward, the government of the Republic of Croatia made a decision to appoint a commission tasked with holding talks with the candidates, following a discussion, further analysis was carried out, and related to the discussion, so the answers that the candidates gave and an insight into the life of the candidates were made, and a special insight was made into their programmes. So this is for the first time that the procedure is different, that the procedure was prescribed in a way that candidates could report, that they submitted programmes, that they submitted all other documents prescribed by public invitation and law. After the analysis, the government identified as its proposal for candidate chief state attorney Zlato Hrvoja Šipek, who was also in front of the Justice Committee yesterday, the parent committee where she answered the questions of the board members. I can briefly say about her résumé, so all of her professional life she's spent in the state's attorney's office, actually first in the public defender's office, it's that civil section that used to be a change of constitution that was separate. After these two institutions have been joined by the State Attorney's Office and the Public Attorney's Office, she is working further in a single institution and we can say that throughout her entire working life she acts most of the functions and really participates in the governance structure. What's important to say is she's the head of the civil department for many years, she's also the first president of the State's Attorney's Council, that's the independent body we've established, that runs care and that makes decisions on the appointment and promotion of state lawyers. So it's about a person who knows the structure anyway, knows the processes within the state's attorney's office. And as for her program, the program is we rated it very fully, the program is good, the programme predicts activities in all fields regarding the work of the state's attorney's office in that criminal area and continues to focus on fighting corruption and continues to focus on handling war crimes cases. The candidate also participated and was part of the task force when a special law on the confiscation of the property benefit committed by the criminal offence was done. The programme proposes some progress in this area, and in particular it highlights peaceful dispute resolution because indeed the Republic of Croatia has no reason in particular with units of local self-government, municipalities, cities, counties to conduct long-term procedures. We think that this is about parties that should be agreed between themselves as indicated here and in the programme. A large space for progress and for further improvement of the system is also the representation of the Republic of Croatia before international authorities, arbitration, before international courts where a specific measure is also proposed. The programme states that it would be good to establish a special part of the state's attorney's office which I think would be a really good idea. We think that when we analyze her professional path, when we see that she's been acting all responsible duties within the state's attorney's office, that she knows the processes, that she knows the personnel she has, and that she's fully aware of those areas within the state's attorney's office where it's possible to make progress, we think she's the best candidate for this place. She doesn't have any professional work, no doubt points, no stains that would be visible where she would be questioned as a candidate at all. This is one and a precedent anyway, in a way, the first time we'll have it, if we choose HS, we'll have a woman headed by the state's attorney's office, and for the first time, it won't be from the criminal department, it'll be from the citizen's department. I know that the focus and perception of the work of the State's Attorney's Office is related to the criminal part, but there is no need to ignore this civic part where the interests of the Republic of Croatia are represented and which is extremely, extremely important. As far as criminal law enforcement is concerned, in all, a large team that needs to work together and where there should be synergy between the civilian part and the criminal one in order to actually make what works better. So here's the introduction. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u202864	Before we go to the replicas there are 13 of them, a colleague of the Grmoys is looking for a break. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u202865	Thank you. So, I think it's sad that we are discussing such an important function on the eve of Parliament's disbandment, that this trade coalition is elected by the attorney general. But I would like to request a recess because the HS yesterday received a play with new evidence that the DORH allowed the inspector of the foreign ministry of Christmas to participate in making a statement that was used to reject a criminal application that was suspected and the inspector himself of the ministry of Christmas. Remember that I sent Prime Minister Plenkovic an e-mail here 4 months ago confirming that I warned the diplomats not to report a violation of the law in Australia in 2016. I am not yet from Prime Minister Plenkovic, but neither did Minister Grlic Radman get a written reply on the documented cover-up of the reported violation of the law into the ministry. I also remind you that the DORH rejected the criminal application on the same day that I asked Prime Minister Plenkovic here in Parliament and when Prime Minister Plenkovic intervened and said such performances do not lead to anything. According to Art. 137. A member of the Government's Rules of Procedure shall be obliged to reply in writing within 30 days, and if a member of the Government does not respond within the prescribed time limit, then the President of the Parliament shall be obliged to request a reply within 8 days. I seek a break to consult on the suspicions that Prime Minister Plenkovic and Parliament President Jandrokovic deliberately violate the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament and abuse the situation to cover up corruption in our diplomacy in our embassies. I remind you, it's all according to Mr. Jandrokovic's principle, let's watch each other's backs. I'm looking for a break. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u202866	You'll get a break. And I can tell you that I reject the charges you've brought on me because they're completely inappropriate, unfounded and proven. So be careful what you say. Here's my colleague Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u202867	Thank you, Mr. President. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, I am looking for a break in order to reiterate the importance of the election of the appointment of the main state attorney representing an independent and independent judicial body in the Republic of Croatia. I reject all the charges that my colleague Grumoja has made in his request for a break because they are not flat and false and not true. What is important to say is that the procedure for selecting the main state attorney of Ms. Zlata Hrvoj Šipek is governed in accordance with the law, completely transparent and has shown that HDZ and this government are above all concerned that the DORH is indeed what the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and its position as part of the judicial authority are about. Therefore, it is good that this process has started, that it has been implemented in accordance with the law, it is good that the head of the DORH comes from a person who is familiar with the work, who has performed the most of the functions in the same law. However, for the first time, we face the fact that at the position of the first man of the State Attorney General, a person comes from the civil office, not from the criminal department, but in view of all the duties he has performed, that she was the first deputy attorney general is familiar with the work of the Attorney General, and I think her choice is practically normal, following her path, her duties in the main state attorney's office, and therefore we will support the club, and I think that's a good solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u202868	Injury of my colleague, Grumo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u202869	Your Honor. I should have responded to your observation because you have no right to speak your personal views here, and you have injured your colleague Bačić. 238. I didn't make any flat-rate accusations but documented charges. I have documents for every word I've said here, I can show them to you, and in the possession of these documents is the Anti-Corruption Council of HS. And if what I'm saying were true, or it wasn't a lie, I'd be getting travel orders from Australia that I haven't received to this day.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u202870	Comrade Grmo, thank you. So there was no breach of the Rules of Procedure, you replicated. And as for my intervention, I've responded to your very dangerous accusations that I'm influencing the work of the DORH. So I had to address you before and before my colleagues, but also in front of the Croatian public and tell you that it is not simple. Comrade Lovrinović, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u202871	Your Honor. I am looking for a break on behalf of the club Let's change Croatia and Live Wall about this topic because the choice of head or head of the DORH is the most important link in the fight against corruption and any crime. Dear citizens, as you can see, we don't have a choice here, there's not even a single candidate, let alone two candidates that we would question here in front of you in direct transmission, because the choice of the attorney general has to be directly transmitted so that all citizens can hear and see, and not that we serve on HRT as party television just what we need to hear and need to hear. So there's no choice here, we don't know by which filter one candidate was selected, and the others were rejected. This government shows that it wants weak institutions, it wants weak DORH, it wants DORH to collect dust on the most important items. No one important in this country for major crime and political corruption has been convicted. And what is particularly important, dear citizens, is the election. You see, the election of the attorney general in this case will be decided by the jury against which one or more or ten criminal charges are being conducted. So this isn't a state, this is a circus from both the Parliament and the state. So in the election that's coming, let's get rid of this... from the scene, the fight against corruption, especially political must be crucial in this country otherwise we'll never do anything, we won't get out of this misery. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We, the party Change Croatia, have filed criminal charges against the CNB in the case of Franak, against HANFA in the case of Factoring and means crime around bonds without cover. We filed criminal charges against Raiffeisen Bank because it wanted to affect the courts, we didn't even get an answer as to what was with these cases, dear citizens, it's all clear here.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u202872	Comrade Alexic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u202873	Thank you. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the HSU Club, the SNAGA, the independent representatives and the New Policy to discuss the proposal to appoint a new chief state attorney because the DORH obviously has a very bad public perception, it's obvious that they're running away from that job of people with a reputation and quality because we see that no significant number of candidates has applied, that's very interesting. So people have lost those who would like to fight for a better RH have lost all hope that something could be done. They have lost hope of being able to join the candidate election realistically, people are simply aware that they know in advance who will be elected and therefore do not run those high-quality candidates. The DORH has made it possible, together with the judiciary, to flee people with dual citizenship across the border, to prosecute crimes while a man is alive, so that when he dies, perhaps only then will the criminal process be completed. The Franak case, we know what it was like, there were banks like big corporate players robbing Croatian citizens for 20 billion kuna, there were several criminal charges, we have the free criminal charges from February, I filed that criminal charges. Nothing on this matter has been taken, unlike the Republic of France, in which, for example, the 2016 penal punishment was launched by the only bank that negotiated unfair loans and this year the prosecution was completed and the sentence was ruled. The bank that negotiated unfair loans there must pay the fine to the state budget, must pay people back the money, and finally, must even pay them immaterial damage. In the Republic of Croatia, it looks like science fiction, and that's why I'm asking for a break to take another look at the issue of the new chief state attorney.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u202874	Comrade Zekanovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u202875	Dear President of the Parliament. I'm looking for a break from the Croatian Sovereigns' Club regarding additional consultations with this law. The key question is whether the candidate is a member of some associations. She wrote that she didn't. If we remember the last case, too, we had information that he wasn't a member of the masseuse, we now have a situation here that claims he wasn't. We don't know that. I'd like to know if you've questioned it. So, is that what the MUP's been looking at? Do you have any reliable information that the candidate is not a member of some box, some secret organization? I'll be specific here, I'd like to know if a member of the Communist Party was once. It's not here, he says I'm not a member. Was it? I'd like to know the past membership, as well as the members of the government, if it's Mrs. Poirot. was a member of the Communist Party of Yugoslavia. Given the age and the functions she's been acting on, I'll say it's very possible that she was. I want her testimony, I want your testimony on this matter. I want you to say she wasn't, because the public has to know, or she was, because the public needs to know. And one question in particular to you, of course, and the lawyers who are likely to do this, the future state attorney who is watching this because you will choose her no matter what, what about the Cengic family? The Cengic family, a four-member family who was slaughtered in 1992 in the village of Ervenik near Knin who, if known, had killed them, the people who were processed, and I never, and I have already asked that here, neither you nor any member of the government nor the Government of the Republic of Croatia gave an invitation for those people who live in Serbia free today. They killed two kids, four years old, 11 years old, mother and father, and they know who they're dealing with, they're convicted, there's no warrant. Why isn't there a BOLO? Why isn't there a BOLO?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u202876	Thank you. Comrade Richembergh, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u202877	Thank you, Mr. President. On behalf of the GLAS Club, too, I am looking for a break in order to further implement the consultations, but also to underline the fact that the election of a new state attorney, i.e. the new chief state attorney, is taking place under unusual circumstances. First of all, the procedure for conducting this competition itself was carried out at a time of crisis that in itself limited the possibility of public action. On the other hand, it happens at a time when HS has narrowed the standards of democratic decision-making. On the third hand, it takes place at the end of the term of office, a few days before HS disbandment, and we cannot be taken away from the impression that, in these circumstances, and at that speed, it wants to actually find a single human resources solution that will not lead to any change. In particular, when it comes to the main state attorney's office and the Republic of Croatia, first and foremost, the first and primary tasks are a constant, continuous and uncompromising process of fighting corruption because of corruption, the entire society has a whole series of problems in its functioning. In the perception of corruption lies the failure of social institutions, the Republic of Croatia is very low-ranked for its reputation, the fight against corruption, and it is obvious that this solution should have been found by a person who will be a uncompromising fighter, who will fear nothing, who has behind the battle, but also by success. At this point, we think that those who propose this, first of all, the Government, are committed to a line of less resistance and to a solution conditionally speaking, which will not bring absolutely any changes to the better, but even, moreover, keep the status quo.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u202878	Is anyone else picking up? If not, we put it at 10:00. [[It's 09.52 hours.]] [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 10.02 HOURS]] Let's go with the replicas, first mate Bulj, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u202880	Thank you very much. Honorable ministers, respected fellow MPs and MPs. Is it normal in a democratic society to appoint a state attorney or a lawyer at the end of your term? So who drives you to the water? What have you done so far in your mandate on crime, corruption, which has been resolved by the State's Attorney's Office, except perhaps you'll be able to count what they've hidden so far in terms of corruption and crime? Answer the public. What have you decided so far in your mandate to appoint a state attorney so urgently, and Croatia has been robbed and devastated? From local sheriffs to top of government, full of corruption, full of fungi, mud, and that's why people moved out. Please give me a reason. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u202881	Here's the minister's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u202882	Thank you very much. Regardless of the end or beginning of the term of office, the DORH is without a leader. We've conducted the procedure, a public call has been called, the government has done everything it has to do and is proposing a candidate, this institution needs to get the man in charge. We think this is a good choice, we were on the board yesterday, and on this issue what she did in the fight against crime, you're actually going to have the most debate in the framework of the State's Attorney's Office's work report, you see shifts year after year. As far as I'm concerned, the executive authority is not acting because there is a trio of authorities, and we have, after a long, long time solved the issue of USKOK accommodation, so an institution dealing with the persecution of organised crime perpetrators and we have therefore given them better conditions to work.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u202883	Comrade Grmo, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u202884	Well, it's interesting that it's Mrs. Devereaux. Croatia's Šipek has just left the fight against political corruption out of its programme it presented yesterday in the Parliament. It seems that Prime Minister Plenkovic and Parliament President Jandrokovic have carefully chosen a new head of the DORH for their taste. I am here again asking the question that the President of the Parliament has persistently avoided, so he answered me twice, but he did not answer the question of what he did to get an answer to my parliamentary question that I asked the prime minister in January. And how it is possible that for two years I cannot get travel orders from Australia, which will be the ultimate evidence of crime in our embassies protected by the Prime Minister and the President of the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u202885	My colleague Bolmo, no matter what you think I can't answer, I have to answer, you're calling me to protect the crime. That's a hell of an accusation. And what argument do you make by the government not answering your parliamentary question? ... So, I've spoken more than once, I'll do it again now. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] On several occasions, I asked the government to respond quickly to parliamentary questions, to which she did not answer. To a large number of questions the Government has given its answer, some of them are not, and when they do not answer, then we from the Parliament are asking for answers. That's what's in my power. But for that reason to link it to the protection of crime, I think anyone reasonable will see that there is nothing but politics. Here's your answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u202886	The program contains provisions and it can be seen that her focus of the program is fighting against... There is therefore no special term for political corruption, corruption includes both political and economic and any other corruption. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And here I'm just saying that fighting corruption isn't just about fighting the DORH and all the judicial bodies. The fight against corruption is, in fact, the struggle of all members of society against this harmful phenomenon.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u202887	My fellow coat of arms, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u202888	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Mr. Minister. As my predecessor said, the candidate for chief state attorney has somehow left out the fight against corruption from her work programme, a concrete fight against political corruption. We asked her about it yesterday, and she said it was a stroke. However, when she made a statement, she said something that tells me that the candidate for the new chief state attorney has absolute awareness that the fight against corruption is not a priority. And these are the words that the fight against corruption is not conducted by criminal proceedings. Therefore, the candidate for the attorney general believes that corruption should not be prosecuted. Since you're here today as the promoter, and you were on the board yesterday, my question is Is it your view that we are not fighting corruption by criminal proceedings? [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u202889	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u202890	Your Honor, I said so. He fights and prosecutes, he fights corruption and court decisions, however, it is a much wider struggle and it is the struggle of the entire society, all the constituents of society, and especially those that prevent...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u202891	My colleague, just a little while, my colleague Zekanovic, a colleague of Glasnović. The rules are well-known, they all stick to them. I'm asking you two to keep making trouble. Come on, please, one of you has to get out of the hall. ... No, no, but we brought in a new Rules of Procedure to define how many MPs from which political options the club sits in the assembly. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So please, or colleague Zekanovic or colleague Glasnović, you must get out. Thank you very much. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u202892	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So, to repeat, it is very important to fight corruption, that segment where judicial decisions are taken, where actions are being initiated against those who have committed certain corrupt acts, however, it is very important that all components of society be involved in the fight against corruption because the fight against corruption does not include only a segment of the processing and sentencing of judgments. It is very important in those preventive procedures that are followed by the laws that Croatia has passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u202893	Let's go to a colleague of Jovanovic now, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u202894	Thank you very much, Mr President, the Honorable Minister and my objection and the question comes to this particular topic that has already been highlighted, it is perhaps a good thing that in this way we point out that the start of work by representing the candidate for the main state attorney has not begun well since she has made a very contradictory statement, and also in her programme, part concerning corruption. And we agree that this is the biggest problem of Croatian society, with the cancer of Croatian society, which is why people leave Croatia, and citizens have no confidence in institutions, especially the justice system. Therefore, it is not well done and it casts a shadow at the beginning of the work, and the additional shadow casts that, if elected, it will be elected by the votes of the jumper's chips. Therefore, this is a very bad start because without the voice of the jumper indictee, He can't become the attorney general. Please comment on that.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u202895	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u202896	Your Honor, I think the candidate we're proposing really, her professional career that she's had so far, her work programme gives us great faith that she'll be doing this job in the best possible way. And I can tell you again, as far as fighting corruption is concerned, I really think that this is an extremely important issue, and I have not experienced her answers as you have understood them, but in the programme she has made very clear progress, she has cited ways to improve the fight against corruption. I just want to repeat here, as I said in the previous question, it's not just about the measures taken by the judiciary. It's a struggle of society at all levels, you know it very well, and everyone in this fight against corruption must make a contribution.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u202897	Representative Ostojić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u202898	Your Honors Minister, I was surprised yesterday actually to see Mrs. who certainly knows the procedure and the structure doesn't know the law. The law on criminal proceedings because it gives priority to inspections and waiting inspections, and only then would the DORH's orders be followed, so I'm surprised that your reaction is missing because I asked you the same question. It's an independent body that has to do its job regardless of anyone else. If it leaves it to those who are not authorized or are only awaiting evaluation, then we are in a serious problem, so I would ask you to comment, in which way we can expect from a state attorney who does not know.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u202899	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u202900	Thank you very much. The main state attorney manages the system, manages the institution, she works with her team, she has a college of deputies, she has an extended college where county state attorneys participate. The State Attorney's Office is an independent and independent legal body defined as the Constitution and our law and the Law on Criminal Procedure and the Law on Police Authorities, precisely defined what the police are doing, what the DORH is doing. If you have any objections to any specific subject, you will, of course, be able to point out in some legal procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u202901	My colleague Pernar is looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u202902	Thank you. Minister Bosnjakovic insults common sense and insults me personally as a representative and all other people when he says the DORH is an independent body. Well, we've seen on countless examples that the political government is currently conducting to the DORH who needs to be processed, directed, allocated money for the persecution of certain people, etc. Here, that's just my suggestion, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u202903	Well, of course you earned a warning because you abused the Rules of Procedure. Hey, buddy of the Ice creams, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u202904	So, dear Minister, yesterday, the candidate in her address said that her fight against corruption will depend on what laws will be passed in this Croatian Parliament, whether they will be good or bad and you are now, during your presentation, talking about the fight against corruption. We have about 3.4 hours of one law in HS, which is, therefore, the publication of the register of all the costs of politicians that the government will refuse. Well, it seems to me that it is hypocritical on the one hand to talk about the fight against corruption and to reject good laws, and you know that it is necessary for Croatian citizens to know what their money is going to be on and that this law should be voted upon by some, therefore, other countries, so here you can comment on that fact.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u202905	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u202906	I can comment on the general level. Of course, good, clear, precise laws that determine who works, who is responsible for what, to assist in the whole process and the anti-corruption process. But what I'm going to do again and again and again, it's not just the fight of the DORH, it's actually the conduct of all the components of society.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u202907	Comrade Zekanovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u202908	Dear Minister. Here, I'd like to hear now the answer to the question I asked you when I asked for a break. Have you asked around, examined and established, because that's what I'm interested in, interested in the Croatian public, if it's by any chance Mrs. The candidate member of some secret association, did you make investigations and I was wondering if she was a member of the Communist Party of Yugoslavia? So these are two clear and simple questions, I want to hear the answer. Both.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u202909	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u202910	Your Honor, the candidate fulfils all those conditions that should have been met by the public call. I have not personally conducted any investigations in the résumé, and all that should be stated in the candidacy.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u202911	Comrade Bačić Ante, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u202912	Thank you, Mr. President, Your Honor. Yesterday I asked the candidate for the state attorney general, and now I'm passing this question to you because I think that in coordination on this issue, it's a staff issue in the DORH, I think you should cooperate together because the main state attorney tomorrow will be the one in charge of coordinating the entire state attorney's system, and in recent years we've seen a little high age limit in the DORH itself, but we know that the last 6-7 years have been no more significant reception of trainees into the system itself since it has been an obvious ban on the ministry itself, so I appeal to you, amongst the first meetings you have had with the main state attorney tomorrow, that it is precisely the staff issue and retaining of professional staff, and especially to accept as many trainees and young lawyers who have recently had no access to the DORH system as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u202913	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u202914	Actually, this is more of a suggestion than a question. I fully appreciate that it is also necessary to supplement the personnel structure in some way, exactly, she had certain comments on that yesterday. But let me remember, two years ago, a year and a half ago, we introduced 30 new deputy municipal state attorneys all over Croatia, it's all actually about people who were both counselors and who are already a great refreshment at these levels. From this higher level of DORH are prescribed and somewhat stricter conditions, but 30 people who then entered the system represent one significant, so to speak, human injection.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u202915	Comrade Culey, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u202916	Dear Minister. I, because of my views, came to a very unpleasant situation because of my parliamentary issues, and ended up at the DORH asking for a security check on one war crimes prosecutor and I have referred you six parliamentary questions in writing since 2017 that I have not responded to. I have also prepared the elaborates, two indictments for the new chief state prosecutor whose work I completely doubt will contribute to any improvement because it comes from the same track record that has kept Croatia in one direction for years that has not gone anywhere in terms of the processing of war crimes, on war damage, on the issue of political and other corruption and on many other issues, there is no movement Croatia needs one young, energetic [[Intruder: Thank you.]] capable and without any connections; and [[Intruder: Thank you.]] a link from the former system. [[Intruder: Comrade Culej, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u202917	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u202918	Your Honor, all the questions you've asked, the ministry can't do without the cooperation of other bodies. We'll absolutely insist on what we weren't delivered to deliver the bodies and we were already in the second notice. I have a completely different view, I respect your position, that it should be someone else's, but our assessment is that this is a staff solution and this is a major state attorney's proposal in order and that it will show shifts in work, and this is seen from the work programme itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u202919	Comrade Alexic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u202920	Thank you. Dear Minister Bošnjaković, yesterday I asked candidate Hrvoj Šiček whether she believes that traders, in this case banks, who systematically agreed unfair loans with 300 thousand people and robbed them for 20 billion kuna, believe that such traders, i.e. banks, should be prosecuted and I mentioned the example from France where France did so in 2016 and 2020, the bank that negotiated unfair loans, also received the penalty it must pay to the budget and must pay the money back to consumers and must pay even immaterial damage caused by mental pain and various other pains that people had due to the very, very increased wars and the candidate replied that there is no basis for such criminal persecution. Do you then feel that there is no basis for the persecution of such merchants as the banks? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u202921	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u202922	It seems that the question should be analysed whether it has a basis for persecution or not. This is the subject matter, actually, of making a state's attorney's decision on criminal charges, and it's in the DORH's jurisdiction, so on that side and the candidate gave the answer yesterday, I'm not going to reinterpret him here, but in my view these circumstances and those facts, and if a criminal application is made, the DORH in some teamwork, so where will the civilians who know more about the functioning of the banks and the banking system themselves, I think that's where the decision should be made, I can't see you from this position, and I can't tell you that or not. If there were any abuses, if there were such illegal behaviours, it is certain that the attorney's office should react. But as it was here, I don't know, I know about those things where they led mostly civil proceedings where there were actually transparent decisions.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u202923	Comrade Beus Richembergh, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u202924	Dear Minister, representing the candidate, you said it was a personal model state's attorney's career, you said she was an expert in arbitration matters. We know that such people must be people of compromise, so people who find medium solutions, who can satisfy as many sides as possible. Similarly, we know that the civic department is in charge of many issues, including disputes with local self-government units, including the preparation of large important laws, such as the Law on the Sea Good. After some phase of 3 years of DORH dying, we simply think the opposite is that we need a person of compromise but someone who has clear, firm attitudes, a person who is combatable, able to make a quick, efficient decision, which in that sense uncompromising And you obviously opted for status quo. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u202925	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u202926	Knowing the candidate, she is both uncompromising and determined and we expect her to act as such. But this part of the dispute between the Republic of Croatia and the units of local self-government, cities and municipalities, we don't think we should charge and bury courts with such cases. We think that it is good to settle these matters with settlements, with extrajudicial settlements, and with court settlements because we think that interests should in principle not differ this but rather the interests of both municipalities and cities and the county and the Republic of Croatia better functioning of the Republic of Croatia as a whole. And it is in her program that there is such a set where she feels that there is a need to actually make certain steps for such disputes not to occur.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u202927	Comrade Bačić Branko, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u202928	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Ministers, when opposition representatives here in the Croatian Parliament, ask you as minister and representative of the executive authority what you have done to prosecute the perpetrators of criminal acts, then, above all, it tells you about the communist mentality and the representatives and parties who ask you such a question and by taking down their political action on the syntagm of “cadiya and sudija, cadija and judge” and that the constitutional category of principles.../incomprehensible/... the authorities mean nothing but decorations in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. That's why I'm interested in you here to us and that's why I've raised a replica of what you're saying as a representative of the executive government, as the minister of justice in the government of the Republic of Croatia, to make one judicial body, an independent judicial body like the State's Attorney's Office did so that it could indeed be independent in its work so that their terms and methods of work could to respond to the challenge that is in Croatia today. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u202929	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u202930	Thank you very much. Your Honor, you have accurately addressed that we as executive authority cannot act in cases and we cannot do a certain step in this way. However, it is our task to ensure the material conditions for the work of the State's Attorney's Office, it is our job to make sure that the laws that apply to be effective in enabling good tools to function. We are after a whole series of years where our specialized State Attorney's Office that fights organized crime USKOK which had no room for work, which had very poor working conditions, we have secured space and they today have a good space and good working conditions. As you know, we have proposed here and amendments to the Criminal Procedure Act which contains certain elements and tools that allow for better treatment of both courts and state lawyers in order to be as effective as possible in the proceedings against the perpetrators of criminal offences.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u202931	And the last replica, fellow Muscle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u202932	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Ministers, knowing that the DORH has been an important institution for the past 30 years, I don't think the Croatian people are very happy with the work of the DORH, but why, because economic crime and war crimes have been going very slowly, in fact they have been slow to process and they haven't made those decisions quickly. I hope that this lady who is likely to be elected will change that perception, and we will see that at the end of her term. However, the work of the DORH so far, I do not think that citizens are satisfied enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u202933	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u202934	Your Honor, I cannot agree with you that the perception of really citizens on the work of the State's Attorney's Office, but not only on the work of the State's Attorney's Office but the whole of the judiciary is not positive, it is as it is. I'm always trying to point out that the truth is still different, and as far as this economic part is concerned, so the economic crimes and the persecution of the perpetrators, I expect this step, but very often it's complex criminal acts, very often it's actually very complicated processes, and on this side, even in its programme, there's actually one particular point that says that there's a lack of financial investigators, and there's a need to make certain progress so that the State's Attorney's Office has this subport of professional people about the economy. I expect that progress.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u202935	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? If we don't move on to a club debate. The first is SDP and MP Bernardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u202936	Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected ministers today are on the agenda of a proposal to elect a new chief state attorney. We in the SDP are in no way optimistic because of the government's proposal that the new chief state attorney become the Golden Croatian Ship because the DORH has not prosecuted corruption for the past 3 years, and today the proposal is a person who has never dealt with criminal law but exclusively with civil law. We were shocked yesterday by her statement that one of the main ways to fight corruption is not a criminal procedure, and by the arrival of Drazen Jelenic, which only strengthens the thesis, she has just become the first deputy. Therefore, we would not want to believe that it is a person who will actually continue the path of his predecessor, which is simply the way of closing his eyes in front of corruption. What is also particularly concerned is that the proposed chief state attorney in her programme has literally forgotten about corruption and the consequences that corruption has on the whole country and our citizens. Apolitical corruption, not to mention miracles. If someone hadn't whispered to her that this is the way it should be, or perhaps counting on the votes of those in the Croatian Parliament, on the support of those against whom the criminal proceedings are being conducted at this time. This is why this proposal, which comes today to the Croatian Parliament and which you want to vote on, is not good, because it will also participate in the vote for the new chief state attorney. The coins against which the criminal proceedings are conducted. I would like to remind you that in April 2018, Plenkovic's alleged removal of chief state attorney Dinko Cvitan, who is a convicted anti-corruption fighter, who is now unfortunately dating three bodyguards because he is being threatened by indictees from various corruption affairs. The reason for the shift was very simple, it was Plenkovic's appointment of his listener Drazen Jelenić who was actually supposed to protect corruption or not process it and protect HDZ in affairs. The more accurate his work proved, the more appropriate he would actually say in his not working because there were no indications of the processing of corruption, any corruption affairs that had been exposed by the State's Attorney's Office. So listener Jelenic's mandate marked the dissatisfaction of the main state's attorney's office on the processing of corruption. During his term of office, which is parallel to the government's mandate for the last four years, Croatia has sunk into society of the world's most corrupt countries, according to Transparency Interantional. Yeah, you heard right, in the world. As the coronary virus has warned in a short time period of time of all weaknesses and Croatian society and our economy, that we are not self-sufficient in agricultural production, that we cannot depend solely on tourism and only on the consumption of import products, that we do not have industry because it has been destroyed in the privatisation and conversion of the 1990s, that Croatia has not made any reform in the last four years which should make leaving the crisis easier, so corruption has constantly destroyed our country's chances of success. It consumes our society because of corruption many of our citizens have low wages, pensioners living in misery, investment has never been less, young and educational their futures see in our country. I am convinced that there was no corruption, the cancer of the early Croatian society so that the citizens of our country would certainly live much better. What's bad is the culprits don't process. Instead of DORH doing his job, to process those who are infused in corrupt operations, the DORH is actually doing nothing. The impression of this government's last four years is that the DORH doesn't exist at all. And such an impression is actually a contribution to the fact that corruption is as if it has become desirable in our society and something quite normal and we have to fight it. However, so as not to have such an impression in the Croatian public when Plenkovic's government is in power, which has become a synonym for corruption. In the history of our country, we don't remember a more corrupt government than this, and that's what countless affairs that are more difficult and counting because there were so many that every normal and honest man in this country must be shamed by such authorities. The confirmation that this has also come in the form of the rainstorm we received from Brussels and in a detailed European Commission report on the situation in Croatia, the European Commission is saying that one of Croatia's biggest problems in the mandate of this HDZ government has just become corruption. And you're wrong if you think the coronary virus will wipe out the citizens' memories of corruption and all the problems our country faces. And you, in a great deal, want to profit from the crown crisis, the only thing you're dealing with right now is the date for calling parliamentary elections because you hope that if elections are discussed as soon as possible that citizens will forget the most corrupt government in Croatian history and forget that they live hard. But don't underestimate the citizens of our country, the citizens haven't forgotten. The citizens did not forget that Plenkovic himself was soaked in the biggest corruption affair in Croatia's history in the Agrokor affair in which advisers pulled out hundreds of millions of kunas, which he acknowledged and confirmed the prime minister when he replaced Ramljak and Martin Dalic and invited advisers to return the money. The State’s attorney - general then did not even find it appropriate to examine witnesses of secret meetings in the government. My question to you, Mr. Bosnjakovic, as well as the new chief state attorney, is she going to deal with this case that was simply covered up by her predecessor. Citizens have not forgotten that the government had to leave at least 10 ministers because of its suspicion of corruption, citizens have not forgotten that Plenkovic's ministers have been rich, have not forgotten yachts, villas, expensive Mercedes, land re-use, former ministers' property that cannot be proven to be of origin. The citizens have not forgotten that HS has become the subject of political corruption by your merit and thanks to your coalition partner Bandic, and the Croatian Government, so-called. A coin coalition. Citizens have not forgotten that this government is being held in power exclusively by political corruption, or by buying MPs in the Assembly, some of them as the media has said. My question to the new state attorney, will the cases of property of respected HDZ cannot be proven to be of origin? Will he deal with buying MPs in the Parliament? Will he deal with the corruption that her predecessor covered up? Is it going to end up having fun and crowning the profiteers who are trying to use this crisis these days and earn money on someone else's accident, at the accident of citizens who are left without a job and who are living hard days at the time of the crisis, such as Plenkovic's mail director, who buys under the Public Procurement Act at twice the price of equipment for 131 million kuna, and Resore Minister Butkovic allegedly knows nothing about it, even though the government has suspended all public procurement or, for example. Like the head of HEP who, under the auspices of Minister Coric and under the auspices of the Coronary of the Crisis, allegedly meshetars of state property or as Chief State Inspector Mikulic, who, during the crown of the crisis, employs his own wife without a public tender at the salary of 17,000 kuna while people lose their jobs and are increasingly difficult to live? Will the state's attorney deal with the case of the House for the Elderly and Powerless in Split where 20 people died for trying to cover up the virus breach by Director Škaricic? I will remind you, this same director who was appointed and protected by HDZ political secretary Ante Sanader has been silenced for over 10 days by a nurse who, unfortunately, has been unsuccessfully trying to report the symptoms of home sufferers. And to avoid confusion, there are not some non-essential HDZ who have suspected corruption, these are all Plenkovic's first associates, his personal elections, his ministers in the government of Dalic, Zalac, Tolusic, Kujundzic, his first associate and former political secretary, Kuščević, it is by his appointed new HDZ political secretary, Sanader, those are his directors of public companies, those are Plenkovic's coalition partners, Bandic and HNS that's all his choice, so his choice is corruption. For the end, don't underestimate the citizens of our country. One thing is certain whenever there are elections, citizens will say no to corruption, they will say no to political corruption and chips, they will say no to the corona to the profiteers because the citizens have neither forgotten nor forgiven you. And don't worry about us, we're more ready than ever.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u202937	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, colleague Bacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u202938	Thank you, Mr. President. He's been injured. 238. HS's rules of procedure because Bernardic falsely spoke, accused, slandered HDZ deputies, and those who are not presently in the assembly, so I cannot answer, so I was obliged to state this. And everything the SDP does and when it comes to Mr Sanader and asking for the resignation of the HS vice president is actually talking about the impotence and desperate move of the SDP in this election campaign.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u202939	Thank you, Comrade Bacic. My colleague Bačić, regardless of what is said, I believe that there were no injuries to the Rules of Procedure, therefore slanders, lies, and that is part of what some MPs say, it is normal for them, and it does not fall under the violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here's a colleague of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u202940	Thank you, Mr. President. He's been injured. 238. The Rules of Procedure, because the distinguished Mr. Bacic, in his alleged injury to the Rules of Procedure, degrades the minds of all of us sitting here, as well as of all Croatian citizens, because of saying about Lovre Kuščević, for example, that he is corrupt is not slander but fact. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u202941	I don't know how you can say it's a fact, because it doesn't exist as a confirmation, we'll just see if it's true or not, but you obviously have that power to judge and judge in advance. These are some remains from some past times, but your right, your conscience. Here you go, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u202942	Thank you, Mr. President. You've hurt your ankle. 238. Rules of Procedure when you were talking like this about my ability to judge. I don't decide on someone's criminal responsibility, but I do see the facts, I see very much the evidence, I see what has been happening and I see what everyone else sees, and that is Mr. Kuščević corrupt. What you don't want to see, it's on your soul. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u202943	So we are not here to judge, we are here a representative body and a legislative body, and when people from representative and legislative bodies were engaged in such judgments, it was called tyranny, not democracy, mixing the two authorities that always went to harm human rights. Presumptions of innocence are part of democracy, you know it very well, and it is my duty to especially about those who are not here, and it is said of them in the way that you said to put them in protective custody, regardless of what the judicial authorities will ultimately say. Let's move on, we now have a representative of Marin Škibola on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Youth List. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u202944	Thank you, Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament. Honorable MPs, distinguished MPs. Today we are discussing the state's attorneyship, the new candidate, but everyone in Croatia knows that Croatia is one country of deep, huge, large corruption and that HDZ has not been accounting for corruption for 20 years, but that it is as a system of generators and corruption. At first, I must say that there are no clear reasons for Drazen Jelenić's resignation. I'm interested in why he's relieved of his duties. He is said to have resigned, but you do not say that you blackmailed him to resign. So the document says he volunteered to resign, and that's a reason. However, it is clear that Plenkovic was sending messages and that you from the government were sending messages that if Jelenic did not resign, you would replace him. So tell me officially what are the specific reasons why you replaced the attorney general? So since you don't say that in the official document yourself, you're simply misleading the MPs here. The role of the DORH itself as a body that curbs crime in Croatia is deception. Citizens know that this body is the main tool in the hands of the structures that keep the main circuit systems under control. During this election, we had six candidates, it was known in advance that HDZ would install someone from the system and thus maintain the continuity of not facing crime and tolerance. It would be too risky for HDZ to be headed by a candidate who is outside the system, who is not part of that system that does not know the system and who does not tolerate the functioning of such a system. Therefore, those six candidates who were, they were purely forms of work and there was a circus being created. However, you already knew in advance who you'd put in charge of the state's attorney. And then there's Plenkovic and Bozinovic playing some recruiting centres, they're like having talks, so they're like some jury, talking to candidates, so that's all a public play. And this play for the public, because of such a play for the public of our country's citizens, young people leave our country, the country fails, collapses in corruption and crime, and the system is constantly maintained, maintained, maintained and you don't see the problem. So you don't see the problem of finally facing crime in Croatia. What has to be said is that crime in the Republic of Croatia has crawled into all the pores of society, infiltrated the most important institutions of the Republic of Croatia, corruption in the judiciary is the biggest problem, and there is an urgent need to start cleaning up, then be dealt with with by banks that have washed billions of kuna in Croatia. We should start arresting people at the same time in institutions that were levers for the realisation of crime. So the State's Attorney's Office has to make a spot-on investigation into who it's favored, how it happened, and what people in the state institutions have done this indistinguishable state where the criminal structures actually took over our country. I wonder why you in the State's Attorney's Office are stopping an investigation into RBA cooperatives and I'm interested in who ordered you to do it? So who hitched those investigations and under what explanation? Because we have the power of judgments where people in front of courts testify that they were carrying bags of money across the border and it was registered to the State's Attorney's office, and the State's Attorney's office is doing nothing. For 15 years, the State's Attorney's Office has done nothing about it. And then how will the citizens believe in institutions, means how to believe in institutions that, as on the lager, reject all these applications. Will CNB leadership be responsible for the huge damage they have done to Croatian citizens by their inaction? Are you going to go to work or do we have a public play again because we've had enough of the show for the public. If you're not ready for this function, don't accept it, don't take it because who we're fooling around here anymore. People don't trust institutions anymore, the DORH has lost its absolute credibility, the more serious crime is being put under the rug, some democracy is being played out, we have 100,000 falsely reported fictitious residences that suddenly activate before the election, and then we're talking about some democracy. So, when are these fake residences going to start getting rid of, Mr. Bosnakovic? When's that gonna start? What kind of democracy is that? So to me, you're now looking to pick a top state attorney as soon as possible and then he's got a four-year term and nothing's been done about these fake residences again. So in Croatia, the foundations of the functioning of the system have been compromised. So the hygiene of the system's functioning, and that's democracy is compromised. If you wanted a farce, I'd give you that farce, and that farce would give you a way to keep all the opposition to this election until the problem of fictitious fake residences is solved. Simply to unite the opposition and tell you, if you want the farce here, let's just let HDZ go to those elections until you solve these fictitious residences you have 100% of those representatives, so let all the MPs in this assembly be HDZ representatives and then act that farce. Because otherwise democracy and going to elections where you have 100,000 fake residences doesn't make any sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u202945	It is now up to the HDZ Representatives' Club and respected counterpart Marija Jelkovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u202946	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear Ministers with an associate, respected colleagues and colleagues, here we are today with the proposal for a Decision on the appointment of the main state attorney of the Republic of Croatia, a hot topic as we have seen since the beginning of today, as well as a hot chair. Before I say anything about the proposal, I'd like to say a few words first about the state-law organisation itself because I think it's important for the public to follow us to get as much insight into the structure as possible, its competence, and thus to get a picture of the rights and obligations of the attorney general. The basis for the regulation of the position and authority of the State's attorney is the provision of Article 125(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. This constitutional provision defines the State Attorney's Office as an independent and independent judicial body as authorised and obliged to take action against the perpetrators of criminal and other criminal offences and to take legal action to protect the assets of the Republic of Croatia and to bring legal remedies for the protection of the Constitution and the rights. The Law on the State Attorney's Office, which is now new in force in 2018, provides for the organisation of the State's Attorney's Office, the authority of the State's attorney and the deputy state's attorney as well as other areas of importance for the work of the State's Attorney's Office. In addition to the provisions of the State Attorney's Office, the law contains certain provisions on the conduct of the State Attorney's Office in the procedures in which it participates as a party. The authority of the attorney general refers first and foremost to the area of the state's attorney's office. The rule is that every state attorney and deputy state attorney is independent in his work and responsible for his work and the decisions he makes. In a specific case, he himself is responsible for the outcome of the case and for all decisions he has made. Exceptionally, that independence may be restricted by the Head of State's Attorney or Head of the Higher State Attorney's Office by giving written and reasoned guidance for the purposes of the uniform application of the law, and only when such giving is necessary for the purpose of the uniform application of the law. In addition, of course, the Law on the State Attorney's Office also lays down the conditions and criteria for the appointment and resolution of the Attorney General and his competences. Since Mr Jelinic, as a former chief state attorney, was relieved of his duties as chief state attorney by the decision of this House on 28 February this year, the State Lawyer's Council issued a public invitation under the provisions of the law to appoint a chief state attorney and, after the expiry of the deadline for the submission of the candidacy, which was set by candidates who submitted the application and all those applications to the Government of the Republic of Croatia in accordance with the law. What I would like to point out is therefore a regular appointment procedure has been carried out in the event of the dismissal of the attorney general. The commission appointed by the government held talks with all candidates and subsequently set out a proposal to propose Mrs Zlata Hrvoj Šipek for the candidate. The proposal was discussed yesterday and the Justice Committee as the parent body of HS and adopted the proposal most of the votes. At the meeting of Mrs Hrvoj Šepek's board as a candidate, a number of questions were raised and we had the opportunity to hear how she thinks about improvements within the system and she was also aware, which was evident from her answers, and the problems that exist in the system itself. We have also heard that insufficient results are in solving war crimes cases and that this calls into question the satisfaction of justice at all, and what we all agree is that it is a very bad perception of the public about the conduct and impact and the state's attorneyship as well as the judiciary in general. I believe that, in this respect, the future chief state attorney of the Republic of Croatia is also a major challenge. As far as the proposed candidate is concerned, I would just point out a few words, so what the minister had already said in the opening explanation of the proposal, she spent her entire working life practically in that system, although at the beginning when she started as a trainee after the Law School began as a trainee within the public defendership system, which later after the amendments to the Constitution became part of this system today. So all the time she's been making some kind of natural progress within that system, and I think it's very important that all the jobs she's been doing in her resume, we see that she's been acting professionally and qualityly. She was also the first president of the State Attorney's Council, so she has insight into all parts and segments of the system. Of course, there have been considerations as to how her handicap for appointing this function is that it comes from the civil management department, not from the criminal department to this position, because it is the first time, but I personally think that this is not a handicap because, above all, the affairs of the attorney general are the affairs of the state's attorney general, and I think that apart from the professional, moral and ethical qualities in this regard, it is very important that the person has express management skills and that he knows the system and people well that he can make the most of all the resources he has in the system. What is also to point out is that it has participated in other professional organisations so far, it is also a member of the Examining Committee on Legal Examining, the International Commission for the Treatment of Foreign Investors' Requirements on Disputes stemming from bilateral contracts of the Republic of Croatia in the area of fostering and protecting foreign investment, is an educator at the Justice Academy of the State School since its beginnings and author of major educational materials and professional works. What I want to say in the end is that the chief state attorney is not Superman and he himself, like no leading man or system can do anything, so for the good functioning of the entire system, the whole system is important, each of its segments, and so are those external elements or systems that the system must cooperate with in order to achieve some results. Of course, today's perception in Croatia is that the problem is not to say the painful wound of the entire society, the state of justice and the state of justice and the DORH itself as part of the judiciary. However, we must be aware that all of us are also affecting the creation of perception. What I think is certainly a demanding task in front of the future chief state attorney, and that is how to change the perception of the public, how to achieve that the work of the DORH itself is more transparent to our public, in order for the public to gain more real and better insight into the results of the work itself, because when we look at the reports, the percentages still speak a slightly different picture of results than it is as perception in society. In the end, I just want to say that the HDZ Club will support Mrs. Zlata Hrvoja Šipek's proposal for the state's chief attorney and I personally wish her a lot of success in her work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u202947	Thank you very much. It is now the Club of Representatives of the Bridge of Independent Lists, or first Mr. Grumoja and then Mr. Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u202948	Dear people, Croatian people. Prime Minister Plenkovic's government decided several days before the HS's disbandment to install the state's chief attorney. They have chosen Mrs. Hrvojo Šipek as a person from the judicial system who, by political corruption, has no match in the EU since the government led it, so Vlad Plenkovic, Vrdoljak, Pupovac, Bandic and other chips. It is precisely the fight against the political corruption of the judiciary that Mrs. Hrvoje Šipek left out of her programme that she presented here at HS yesterday. I guess that's what I said in the replica that Prime Minister Plenkovic has carefully, by his own taste, chosen the new head of the DORH. There is no doubt that Mrs. Hrvoje Šipek will trust her colleagues from the ruling coalition, including those colleagues who have a rich experience in counterfeiting different documents, in misusing the situation in the criminal land change as well as other priorities of the current authorities on their way out. The government's mandate confirmed more than the obvious need to cut the umbilical cord that firmly connects the DORH with the ruling structure. But this umbilical cord cannot be cut by people from the system who announce continuity. Continuity is needed for those who use privileged positions of the corrupt system and those who place corrupt individuals in positions to guard their backs. We watch each other's backs, on one occasion he explained his life philosophy to the President of the Croatian Parliament Gordan Jandroković. Croatian citizens need the DORH to guard their backs and their property from corrupt structures, and they do not need the continuity of such a DORH. Croatian citizens need a DORH who rejects criminal charges on the same day as the prime minister publicly intervenes for his acquaintances. Croatian citizens do not need a DORH who refuses to call for a conversation and enables the suspect to cover up. Croatian peoples, the DORH cannot be reformed, the DORH needs to be decommissioned and created by a judicial system that will serve Croatian citizens and will not serve the maintenance of a corrupt structure. DORH does not need aesthetic treatment but needs an emergency surgery. The DORH needs to open the door wide, make a strong blow and let the fresh air in order for our Croatia to breathe. The current situation in the judiciary is unsustainable. We see this ourselves without defeating the indicators alarming us by the EU and the European Commission. The government's relativisation and ignoring of the political corruption of the judiciary in Croatia is unfortunately joined by the candidate for chief state attorney Mrs. Hrvoj Šipek with her programme and the intention of maintaining an existing system with which only those who are not ashamed of the votes of suspects and indictees from the ruling coalition can carry out this appointment of the main state attorney several days before the Croatian Parliament's disbandment. And lastly, I'm not satisfied with the state of justice. I don't want to continue this system, and I won't, and neither will the club whose president I am, it's the MOST Club, to support Mrs. Hrvoj Šipek's appointment as chief state attorney. He's going to continue his colleague, Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u202949	Thank you for your help. Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u202950	Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected ministers, Croatian peoples who expect you to get answers, which is why Croatia is corrupt, which is why the people do not trust the Croatian judiciary. We don't get a single answer from 1,000 questions. Only the existing condition is maintained. Dear Ministers, I expected you to explain why at the end of the term of office of this commercial majority you appoint a state attorney, instead of now at the end of the term to leave it to the next term of this assembly, high home, when the people decide who will be their representative here. You exclusively on the commercial majority want to protect here now the existing things you haven't done because the main reason, ministers, the main reason why people from the Republic of Croatia are 2/3 empty, which are empty, is mistrust in the judiciary. Clientism, corruption, crime blooms. All the values of the judiciary have been destroyed. The state's attorney's office didn't do their job. For years and years before I was a parliamentary representative, I gave criminal charges, I lectured, for weapons, for the defense of the Cetinski region, a million and 400 marks, I never got a solution whether to return that money to the people, when weapons needed more than bread in the '90s. the year it was slaughtered, burned, the Serbian army in those areas. That money where the Minister ended up? Your current candidate for state's attorney is from the '80s. years old, when I was 8 years old, she started working in a résumé, 8 years old, which she's done so far, which cases she's solved, which she's solved. Did she solve economic crime, did she solve the local sheriffs, did she solve what was happening in my Cetitian province that I reported, taking over the most powerful transport company Promet, which was trafficked in the area of the former Yugoslavia, which was destroyed and handed over to the hands without a kuna? Is it settled that those who had purpose, not intent, but was ready to pollute the river Cetina with various industrial wastes? I'm meant for it. Is the problem solved by those who I stopped, and these are Dalmatian workers? You brought me in, what I stood behind, no matter what I was then an active officer of the Croatian Army, which was destroyed by homes of health. And that's the result, Minister, which is not heard in maternity homes, but at bus stations, because of the DORH who doesn't do his job. What about my criminal application in 2017, where Todorovic was given that he could use the bonds without a 10 billion kuna cover for HANFA and HNB, 10 billion kunas used the bond without cover. 10 billion. Direct impact on the monetary system of the Republic of Croatia. High treason. Robbery. That's what the people know, you must send this message, as my colleague Grumo said. Unmount this system. You won't have yourself in this election, maybe you'll have something else, the next one won't have anyone to vote for you, except, in fact, only a few older people left. Slavonia, our plain, has been robbed of our ports, our maritime well-being. Coalitions in Split-Dalmatia County are created on the maritime good. The president of the Split-Dalmatia County Assembly has resolved his member with his coalition partner Boban and Sanader to get concessions on Benama, the beach, hey, the coalition is being resolved on our maritime good, our people, yet fence it, that they do not have the right to either to bathe or to bathe in Split or Sinjani or anyone. And another question would ask you. What about war crimes? What about the cry of Vukovar, the cry... with the cry of numerous crimes that were committed in my area of the Cetin area, what about it? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Do you hear that cry? Is it that you have become so natural under this light that the people who campers have been in Serbian concentration camps, they call me so that I have to lead them to the DORH, that they cannot resolve their rights?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u202951	Thank you, Mr. Bull. Now the position of the SDSS Representatives Club will be Mr Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u202952	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. The choice of the Attorney General is an important job of the Government in proposing and an even more important job of the Parliament on the acceptance of the one or the one proposed and the adoption of the annual reports of the DORH, as well as of this election, is the topic that deserves the greatest attention of this House. Because the DORH depends on a lot of things in our judiciary. It depends and depends today and will depend on the future, and for this reason it is no wonder that we hear the polemic tones, critical tones, because people are dissatisfied about the situation in the judiciary. Someone from this perspective, someone from one, but as well as a number of other things, after joining the EU, with us, the criteria for elections and criteria for appointments and for actions are starting to deteriorate, not to improve, and we need to be aware of that. And this choice and these candidates we've got, the candidates show that the growing number of those who.../incomprehensible/... are showing a serious interest in such functions as choosing a top state attorney. Unfortunately, so with other functions, people of profession, people of authority, for some reason stay away from these functions. And when it comes to the Constitutional Court, and when it does, there are key courts in the country, and we have to imagine why it is, and we have to do something to change it. So instead of having a process in this respect of progress, we unfortunately cannot conclude that we have a process of progress. DORH, and that is no wonder, was actually, in fact, only in some periods was the favored segment of the judiciary, either publicly, in terms of the political system, but the fact that the DORH was unfortunately treated as a third pig, the 13th pig of the judicial system. It seemed to be getting stronger. It seemed to help him develop autonomy, professionalism, and competence. In increasingly complex and increasingly numerous cases that can be carried out, from subjects related to economic crime to cases related to the traumatic and dramatic suffering of people under the circumstances of the war that we place in the dimension of international, violation of international humanitarian law. As I say this, I always keep in mind honest lawyers and lawyers, judges and judges who can think of them, but I don't. Most people do their job well and are paid weakly. He works under circumstances that are unprofessional, with funds that are often donations from other countries, not our countries. So when we choose, in this case, a new candidate for the main state attorney, we should keep that in mind, and if possible with all the reserves we can have, if it is possible to help this segment of the judicial authorities to work as well as possible, that as little as possible we hear complaints as to how someone influences it from political, but don't think only from political, there are other points that are influenced and that are no less powerful than perhaps the Government. When something comes to court who influences? The one who has the money, the one who has the better lawyer, the one who can swing longer. It exhausts and weakens the work of the state's attorneys and their deputies, all of which we must bear in mind and try when we adopt the budget, try when we design the functioning, improve the functioning of our judicial institutions to do something to change it. First of all, first of all teaming, first of all elections in key places are important examples. Because if an example in an important crucial place in the judiciary does not show its best, it is passed on. If we from politics send ambiguous statements or "For Home Ready" this or that, then what will the people who judge say? If we in politics believe that one war crime should be tried to the knees of the ninth, and the other one should not be tried because it could, could have been killed, could have been taken away, could have been expelled, deliberately speaking these words because it was prevented by the penalties of international humanitarian law, whoever it was. And now someone's gonna answer, and they're gonna say "Pop's only thinking about Serbs," I don't think. For me is the loss of Croats in Vukovar, Ervenik, which was mentioned by the Cengic family or in Škabrnja or anywhere else as painful as the death of Serbs in Dalmatian villages, in Western Slavonia, by cities at the beginning of the conflict. So we need to close that book in a way that we can create and allow the state's attorney to act autonomously, not to be blackmailed from our own political interests, as individuals do to come to power. And in a number of cases there were people that came from parties that came to power on this, and the government that comes to this cannot be good authority and cannot provide adequate justice, unfortunately. We have enough examples so far to confirm that. As for the particular election, I've already said, over the past few years, we haven't had any luck choosing a top state attorney. I'll just say that formula. The candidate we're discussing today and we need to choose, she should keep that in mind. For both ourselves and for our sakes, and above all for what they will do the duty. To restore the minimum trust to its deputies and deputies, to restore the minimum confidence of citizens in the Republic of Croatia who, unfortunately, are below the minimum. And at the same time, to convince the government that the state's attorney's office, to convince the judicial system, to cooperate with the police in a way that will not obstruct each other as it has been so far in a number of cases and to create assumptions that the State's Attorney's Office is doing as well as possible. In the end, when we're talking, each of us can say the extra word and I look at it like that, but when it's the extra one that's really ringing, it's supposed to say that there's no room today and it can't be in our country at the words they or we.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u202953	Thank you very much. Let's move on, now in front of the Living Wall's Club and let's change Croatia will speak Mr. Lovrinović and write Mrs. Sabolek.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u202954	Dear citizens, I address you first. And today you're probably following this session of parliament, you see here we don't have a chance to choose a major state attorney or attorney, she'll stand up. Dear citizens, isn't it the irony and tragedy of this society that about the state's chief attorney who's been proposed here, we don't know what filter because we can't hear her crucially deciding on a few MPs that the same DORH is investigating? Someone just said we haven't had any luck with the state's attorneys in the past few years, so we haven't had any since they've always been set up. It's a key person who needs to protect the order, the legality, the order in this country. But what does this government want? She wants her DORH, she wants her IRS, so she wants a weak state, weak institutions. That's why citizens or what people say feel, we feel powerless. We've had enough of these shows, the choice of a state lawyer is an important issue for every country and it must be for Croatia as well. DORH must not be a place where items are collected, where dust is collected. In front of the party We change Croatia I filed three criminal charges, one against the CNB in the case of Franak, the other against HANFA because of money laundering or uncovered bonds, the third against Raiffeisen Bank, who publicly sought the services of various PR experts to pressure courts and judges. Therefore, we see that there is lawlessness in this country. In this law, such people and such political structures are best equipped. That's why dear citizens, we individually feel powerless, but now that the elections come, that day we're each single emperor. You're writing that it's not worth it, it's gonna steal the election. Let them steal something, but they can't steal everything, but 47% can't sit at home when the elections are and expect us to arrange Croatia properly. We can fight a few of us here as lions and you are pleased to hear it, but we need your strength, your power, your voices to sweep this weed off the political scene in the next elections and finally turn Croatia in the right direction towards prosperity, peace and legality. This government and previous ones want weak institutions, they want the IRS weak. When I asked how many unpaid taxes there were in the memo, they answered 28 billion kuna. Imagine the IRS didn't charge 28 billion kuna so far, and we're choking on problems. Imagine if they only charged 50% of the amount and charged 14 billion, which would now mean something to us. Every year they write off a billion and a half to two, when I asked by what criteria they say we can't arrange it for you, it's a business secret, so discretion to our people. Is that on the party lines? We don't know. So I'm asking that the vote on the Secretary of State be exempt from those MPs against whom any criminal proceedings are being conducted. They'd have to do it themselves, it's the minimum morale expected here as parliamentary representatives. In that sense, if they do otherwise, it will be the highlight of mocking our citizens. So, respected citizens, I have nothing else to tell you, the DORH has no financial forensic experts, imagine how they will make decisions and investigate top financial malfeasance and economic crime. I can't, they're underpaid, they don't have enough room. Well, that's why they care, they'd rather not have the DORH, and if it's already there, then it should be theirs under control. I'm sending you one of the last messages from this pay phone because this House is about to disband. I call on you, understand already once, let us understand once that our vote is worth our vote and I call on you to change finally Croatia together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u202955	Thank you, too. Mrs. Sabolek, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u202956	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear citizens, colleagues and colleagues. The chief state lawyer Jelinic was removed, the state's attorney did nothing like the others before him, as neither did Mrs. Zlata Hrvoj Šipek. And why is that? Because they are chosen by this HDZ-SDP majority in the Parliament, they can also be replaced if they touch into the nest, keep them in their hands. And how such a politically appointed lawyer can do his job and put criminals in prison when these same criminals and their representatives in the Parliament place him on duty and decide his fate. Mrs. Zlata Hrvoje Šipek has been in this criminal system for almost 30 years, 30 years, and 15 years is the deputy attorney general. This lady has been watching crime for 15 years, watching them protect themselves, and not being prosecuted by heavy criminals, the child of this corrupt system, and should we expect to change from it? So only the Council of Europe's anti-corruption body, GRECO, warned this corrupt government to change the way in which the chief state attorney was appointed, as well as the Supreme Court president. Did they do it? Well, of course not, so they'd be the first to be prosecuted if the attorney general were a brave, moral and unsuspecting person. No offense, Mrs. Hrvoje Šipek, but you are ready for retirement, you have no desire and youth to fight criminals as you would have 10 or 20 years ago, perhaps provided you are allowed to fight by your political bosses. You're Mrs. Marionette, the person who's going to play the attorney general, and then you're going to retire and you're going to say it because you're definitely going to profit from this puppet position. And in the meantime, you're not going to do anything, it might be processed just for which you get the green light. What are you going to show your muscles only on the written-off Bandic? Prove that the judiciary is working, that the DORH is working, that the BOOK is working, that the judiciary is functioning? No, instead of setting your goal of processing 10 cases of corrupt crime annually and clearing up this criminal society, you put in your program a priority to make a deal with criminals. Do you think the people want hard criminals to get away with parole and fines? The people want you to put them in jail, on maximum-deserved sentences so that no one ever thinks that they're dirty and without hiding, harassing this country. What settlements, ma'am. A future state attorney? You can assure us how much you want to relieve the judiciary, the real truth is that you will continue to let criminals laugh at us from freedom and continue to rob our people undisturbed. Ma'am. Hrvojo Šišek, you still have time to give up your candidacy for the attorney general and retire with as much unsullied honor as possible. You know you're gonna be a puppet, you know you're gonna dance like criminals play, you're not a person to deal with crime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u202957	- Mrs. Crescent. Anka Dark Taritash will speak on behalf of the GLAS Representatives Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u202958	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished ministers with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues. According to the official review of the situation in the EU's 2019 judiciary, the Republic of Croatia is the last, last, ever since, 28 other Member States, and according to the impression of the citizens of judicial independence. As a reason for this impression, the citizens of Croatia state equally the pressures of politics and economic and other interests. The lack of confidence in the judiciary is tearing down the foundations of trust in the country. Basic principles such as equality before the law and the right to a fair trial have been questioned and that is a long time ago sign of a warning bell. Unfortunately, with these choices or the way they choose, it won't change, even moreover, it'll be the other way around. The election process comes down to the State's Attorney's Council calling and then the Allah's Commission, composed of ministers in the government, hearing candidates, it does not raise confidence. The more this is about a highly non-transparent procedure in which neither the public nor their elected representatives, parliamentary representatives, have any insight into all the information they should have. In fact, it all comes down to the following, several ministers, all members of the same party behind closed doors, deciding on the candidate and then the majority of the assembly, and the most common, so again a group of people from the same party and several MPs who are harvesters in the pocket of a multiple USKOK indictee, the decision confirms. And then we wonder why our citizens at least of all EU citizens believe in the independence of the judiciary from politics? In the whole story, it's actually unclear why we're wasting our time on acting out some procedures at all. - Mrs. Crescent. The Golden Croatian Ship may be the best candidate in the world for this place, but when it comes to this kind of choice, we have absolutely no reason to believe it. The Croatian State Attorney's Office does not enjoy the divine reputation or trust of the public, it is bad, we would all be happy if it were different, but we must be aware of the reality. People have the impression that pressures are subject to both political and economic powers, they're constantly talking about a selective approach in which some are not allowed anything and some are passing everything, about drawers, cabinets and rooms that are valuable employees filled with evidence of the crime of all kinds but are eventually stopped because of someone's political or economic power. In a completely bizarre case of a former state attorney and his affair with a February mass theater, the DORH certainly did not come out of a strengthened reputation and strengthened trust, even more. Next up, about Mrs. McNally. We know in fact very little, we know what she has already said, she has chosen a commission of six HDZs after which it is enough that these same HDZs are together with the MPs in the pocket of the multiple USKOK indictees, raise their hands in the Assembly and then be elected. Don't mind me if I don't think it's much of a recommendation at first. We also know that the lady has been in the system for a long time, actually since her first day of work, since the early 1980s, and to be honest with you until the end, we don't consider it a privilege. Suddenly, in the DORH or the DORH for a long time, not suddenly, this strange form of inheritance law prevails. That means that filling up the DORH lead police can only be from people who worked there and they inherit each other. DORH with all its problems and all the dissatisfaction it causes, we think the time has come for the perfect candidate to be someone "out of the way" and someone who would bring fresh blood and shake it all together a little bit. It seems to us that there are quite enough great experts in Croatia who, with their knowledge, experience and fresh energy, could give the DORH exactly what he needs, a new swing and a new view of things. The proposed candidate simply because of the nature of things as someone who has been working in the same system since the first moment, she simply isn't. The more the state's attorney's office is in charge of a different kind of case, not those by which the public will remember and what will be the basis of the work, and these are criminal cases. The program of work, or what we have been able to see and hear, also does not pour out any excessive trust. To be clear, that doesn't necessarily mean that the candidate is bad, doesn't mean he's tragically bad, but it's just not what we hoped for and what we expected. There's no new energy, no new ideas to solve the accumulated or burning problems. What is most in the eye is that when asked about the problem of corruption, the candidate responded and transferred it to someone else and stated that it is against corruption, it will not solve criminal proceedings but rather better legislation. It's simple, the statement the candidate made is simply disappointing. We can make such a statement in the assembly because from our perspective and our jurisdiction it is indeed an emphasis, but it cannot be said by the proposed candidate. The chief state attorney has in her hands investigations and criminal persecutions, they are her tools and weapons in battle, but if someone is already sitting on his post giving statements as if throwing a spear into thorns it doesn't really sound good. Especially when it comes to the main or one of the main challenges that awaits her. Corruption is largely a violation of the laws and regulations that we have whatever they are. The candidate's programme includes the idea of redefining USKOK's powers to make it more effective. In theory, it can even work, but with a candidate for such a high function we would like to see a little bit more, a little more serious details when the idea of changing the powers of such an important body such as USKOK is thrown on. Honestly, there are too many people in this country who, if we choose them, will establish a commission, and then the commission will draw conclusions, programmes and plans, and then there will be some additional commissions or some additional teams. If you are running for such a high function you should be specific, come up with ideas or not mention them at all if they are unsettled and undeveloped. To be clear, there are good things here. Reinforced work against domestic violence, environmental protection and health, stronger use of extrajudicial settlements or the like, but it's simply not enough. I think the DORH needs to shake new energy, thorough programs with more new and concrete ideas. The institutional continuity represented by Mrs. Zlata Hrvoje Šipek is simply a train of people from the system who replace each other at the head of an institution that simply does not serve a purpose. The purpose would be to finally hear that the DORH will ensure that it acts independently and independently against committing criminal acts, that's what it says at the beginning of the Law on the State's Attorney's Office. We in the Civil Liberal Alliance will not support this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u202959	And now first, Mr. Zekanovic, and she will speak in front of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns and Independent Representatives Mr. Glasovic and Mr. Hasanbević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u202960	I held her hair with my left hand, and I dragged the night to the height of the apple with my right hand. As I pulled the knife to the right on her neck, there was a very quiet sound that produced the knife in my hand cutting the skin on her neck. It was declared by Slobodan Kovacevic, who was legally convicted in Croatia for war crimes. And your ministry of State Secretary and Bozinovic's ministry has done nothing to get this man, or those people, to sign a warrant. I would like to hear the answer from the Government of the Republic of Croatia today and I demand that as a representative of the Government, I insist that I be answered today, and it is not the first time that I ask, why is there no warrant for the Cengic family murderers in Ervenik near Knin, January? Two children slaughtered, mother and father of the family. And there's no BOLO. Your headlines are full of warrants for Mr. Mamic in BiH, some of them. And why are we not talking about this? Why are we not talking about this? Because they are not there, because they are from a simple working Croatian family in the Sibenik hinterland or in the Knin hinterland. And nobody's talking about them. And murderers, and not just one, there are 7-8 I wouldn't want to make a mistake walking freely today under the same sun as you State Secretary. I demand an answer, I'm already in writing and oral today, so why don't we have a BOLO for these people? Would you like me to read again what one of the murderers of Slobodan Kovacevic told you before the court? He held his hair and cut his neck, and there's no BOLO. Are we a normal country? And then we'll bring one person here for the state's attorney will bring her to HDZ, bring her to Plenkovic, no problem called Zlata Hrvoj Šipek, but to me, '56. a year. To my clear question Minister just now whether a member of the masseuse or some other association, he answers, it meets the terms of the competition. Then when she finds out that you're gonna make her go away again. Have you asked around? Have you questioned the Secret Service's investigation? Did Mr. Bozinović investigate that? It's not. It doesn't matter, does it? The second question, I'd like to know, she claims here in CV in her resume that she's not a member of any association, and I'm curious to know if she was a member, for example. The Communist parties of Yugoslavia? So this moment has been released from the party's association, no matter what, I want to know if the lady who will be in one very important post tomorrow was a member of the KPJ as I would like to know about all the State Secretarys, were all ministers and were members of any secret organizations? But there's no answer to that, there's no answer. Please, this one for two questions, I want an answer. In the end I will end up in a slightly different tone, today I congratulate all the Splits, their women's day, the Day of the Holy Doom, St. Duje, but I would mention another extremely important fact, on this day of '91, a day after the Splits attacked the JNA command in Split, meaning how many years ago, 29 years ago, the Herzegovians in the Polog Golomki with tractors, cars headed by the Franciscans stopped hundreds of tanks and armored transporters from coming to Split, not to come to Dalmatia. Thank the Splits for what they did the day before, thank the Herzegians for what they did today. And once again, happy city day.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u202961	Mr. Glasnović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u202962	Dear ladies and gentlemen. The truth hurts. If you put a lie detector in here, it would melt. I can't believe that people are talking and that they believe what they're saying here, the DORH there have been changing since the beginning of the modern Croatian state from comforters to Masons. Who is this lady, I don't know, but I doubt it'll be the same thing. The old frames are the same mental set. That's why we can't move on. How long will it take to establish a legal system, a real legal system that works? As regards the implementation of the regulations, Croatia is 52nd, and you have sat there on the left, right wing of the party, 52nd by the regulation of 116 countries implementing the regulations. By corruption in 50, Rwanda and Cabo Verde are ahead of us and you're talking about democracy here. What democracy? This is kleptocracy, partocracy. You have a total separation between regulations and laws and enforcement. What are these legacy? Legal uncertainty, these contracts are written with a pen, deleted, constantly changing the rules that no one will invest. You've transferred all the faults from SFRY to this country, all the faults, and you fool only the people, you fool the people. From small appliances to the top of institutions you generated bureaucracy that generates corruption. Everyone's looking for money on every level, and it's already become a permanent procedure. You have now seen a video conference of the EU, a key word of the Western Balkans and corruption, which is what these here in Northern Europe are looking at. Sweden has the least corruption, and we are 50, etc. Land-book malversions, privatisation revisions and conversions, retroactive laws. The law confiscation of illegal property acquired, what about it? We've been waiting for decades. This is where we amnested the greatest crime against the Croats economically, the violently seized property after the '45s. What are we talking about? 5% of the land's books are properly booked, so let's keep quiet about it. All SKH materials were cleaned up there in the '90s. Where's the copy of the property of the social political organizations of the SKH, the union? This is just an act and an illusion. I know some people don't listen here, it doesn't interest Mr. Hrelja, but he'll say his own thing soon. We're going round here. Here's the spending of public money. One kran from three. Maya, also a part of the state-owned company, spent it, stole so much that his wife accused him. He spent 450,000 kuna on Team 3. May, and the workers are on the street. These communist... fugitives, directors, gave 15% of the state-owned shares to workers, they took 85% and to bankruptcy. We're here today. Here's who we should look up to? It's all written and spoken long ago. Romania, Romania forms an anti-corruption directorate, Romania rules 20 laws on the fight against corruption on the ground, laws. And of course, here we have what we don't have here, the public embarrassment of the princes of the shivering in front of the media and the confiscation of illegal property that has been acquired in an illegal manner. The person who launched the directorate today is sitting in the European Parliament, she is Romanian, she has launched that wheel, she has seen that the same thing happened in Romania that happened here that all the former personnel in the system have moved on to this system and have continued to work in the same way as the same mental set, and that's our problem, this mental heritage, that kleptocrat of the former system, and that's where the same people who have violated in this former system the worst ways of human rights, is that maybe that lady was part of that repressive system that's being run back then? Because we know that everyone has retouched their biography, some have changed, some police have changed their résumés when they've tied people to a radiator and beaten up for singing Croatian songs and today they're big cosmopolitans and Croats. I don't fall for those tricks and put a lie detector here.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u202963	Now it's Mr. Milorad Batinić's turn to speak for the Club of Representatives of the CNS, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u202964	Thank you, Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State with an associate. I'll read for the introduction what we all believe best, Art. 125. which states what the State's Attorney's Office, an independent, independent judicial body is authorised and obliged to act against the perpetrators of criminal and other criminal offences, to take legal action to protect the property of the Republic of Croatia and to submit legal remedies for the protection of the Constitution and the rights. I will also read what is written in the original foundations of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, one part, on the establishment of the foundations of state sovereignty in the period from II. svt. The wars expressed contrary to the NDH declaration, in the decisions of ZAVNOH, then the Constitution and also at the historic turning point in the rejection of the communist system and the change of the international order in Europe. I'm reading it as a layman, I'm going to tell the layman because I'm not a legal profession, so the State's Attorney's Office must be in the function of protecting the Constitution and all of those rights defined by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Today we are discussing the appointment of a state attorney, we at the HNS Club will support this proposal, but as with all the current state lawyers that we supported on the government's proposal, on the proposal of the Assembly Committee, it is a bianko confirmation. The examination of work is, too, every year, we will question and the work means the programme proposed by the candidate and see if the fulfillment is in that work that meets certain criteria. Now, here's the deal. I took examples here from what awaits the chief state attorney, a report on the work for the past year that will be the foundation, the beginning of her work and the results that she will be able to refer to in her new work, or about which we here in the Assembly will question. I will not talk about everything but a very interesting report for 2019 that shows a certain trend in several resolved cases, more urgency in solving the case, a smaller number of rejections, however, there is one in that report that is certainly what has already been said here in the assembly, it is a matter of the jurisdiction of the USKOK, it is a matter of corrupting crimes. What would certainly be suggested and suggested on behalf of the HNS club to the new state attorney, allow only a few pieces of the report, for corruptive crimes during the reporting period, meaning in 2019, 1003 persons, 988 natural and 15 legal persons in the structure, means a decision of 85%, the most represented solution on the rejection of the criminal application made in relation to so many natural persons and so many legal persons. It means a lot of rejections. 142 people have been made a solution to conduct an investigation, a total of measures taken by the state's attorney for criminal charges, meaning only 14% and a direct indictment has been brought against 8 people. That's what we're talking about when it comes to the perception of corruption in the Republic of Croatia, which is extremely high. Compared to trends, we always compare ourselves with other countries, so the suggestion in front of the HNS club is, there is further talks that are very generally formulated, I hope that in their work and writing in both the code and the law itself, and perhaps more openness about the work of the State's attorney, says a large number of rejections in the structure of applicants of criminal applications. In a number of cases, citizens are dissatisfied with the decisions of courts and other state bodies, with reports showing that their submission is motivated by the achievement of certain personal interests and are also completely flat-rate. Now, I'm going back to the Constitution and all its provisions of the Constitution, the citizens are obviously, having a feeling that their rights have been violated, and I wish in the report the next one that will be, unfortunately we can't, before for 2020, get more committed to this very structure. The fact is that a large number of us citizens of the Republic of Croatia are rightly and justly identifying, but if I am a layman, I watch what is right, it doesn't have to be right. It is tried on the basis of the law obviously, and it is the same proposal in front of the HNS Club that more attention, in that report, is devoted to this particular, this work of rejection because it is an extremely high number of rejections. And that is the basis of the perception of corruption. I believe there's a large number, I don't want to guess, I don't want to be a flat-rate estimate of how many unreal, unobstructed or out of spite, or I'm going to hurt you, etc., but it's obvious that it's the basis for creating a perception of a negative and against the work of the State's Attorney's office. In this way, the legal foundations of the country are destabilised. I believe the new state's attorney will read all the debates. We are well-intentioned, we seek to improve the work of the State's Attorney's Office, and this is the interest not only of us as parties but also of all citizens in the Republic of Croatia. And one question. The last time there was a debate about a former state attorney who resigned for membership in the association, I see in his resume it's not a new state's attorney member of any association, but my question was then, and then I'm going to ask that same question to the new state's attorney, or to the members and members of the State's Attorney's Council, who makes decisions regarding the deputy state's attorney because it's the law that when his automatism stops, he becomes a deputy attorney. And I'm asking the exact same question. Mr. Jelinic resigned because he was a member of an association that registered under the law, but her work was secret and there it was, he threw confidence in the institution, he damaged the State's Attorney's Office, I wonder if he could continue to work if he was still a member of that association as a deputy state attorney? Because the deputy attorney general is a state attorney. Whether something needs to be changed in the law itself or not, I don't believe that the State's Attorney's Council can make such decisions without consulting the state's attorney. Here, these are some dilemmas. Once again, the HNS Club will be supported because we will discuss the work in the coming years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u202965	Thank you. Mr. Aleksic will, Goran Aleksic will speak in front of the Club of Representatives of HSU, SNAGE, Independent Representatives and New Politics. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u202966	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the distinguished representatives of the ministry, yesterday at the Justice Committee, I asked the candidate Hrvoj Šipek, does she think that traders in this case, who knowingly, deliberately negotiated unfair loans with Croatian citizens with them 300,000 and thus robbed 20 billion kuna using unfair contract provisions, does she consider this a criminal act? And I compared it with France, where the French state prosecutor has been chasing banks since 2016, sued them in a criminal court, and this year the criminal court has reached a verdict by which the French banks, the French bank that has negotiated such unfair loans, had to pay the fine to the state budget, must pay the people what they robbed and still have to pay them compensation for immaterial damages. That's what candidate Hrvoje Šipek told me that we in our laws have no basis for what the French have. I was deliberately in a criminal report that I filed against the banks this year because of what I described I didn't write about what kind of crime it was because I don't have to do it, it has to determine the DORH. So, the State's Attorney's Office has to determine what kind of crime is being committed if someone reports someone for a crime as a layman, and I'm a layman, I'm not a lawyer, but in the Criminal Code there's pretty much a basis for what I'm talking about, there are crimes that are being committed here, and they're a crime of fraud and a criminal offence of trust abuse. Therefore, on the basis of such provisions, the French also prosecuted their bank and it is precisely in France that it is a criminal offence of fraud and a criminal offence of trust abuse and a deliberate failure to display information to consumers. Same thing as in the Republic of Croatia. So candidate Hrvoj Šipek is wrong when he says we don't have a foundation. We have the same foundations as the French and I believe our laws are not too different from the French laws. It's just the details. So I'm going to say a little more detail here what these traders are, and these banks in the Republic of Croatia have done, which is why they should be held accountable and why the Croatian State's Attorney's Office should be required on the basis of my criminal application, but as far as I know, there were still these criminal charges, to launch a prosecution of banks already convicted in the collective process for the negotiation of unfair loans, but in one part they haven't yet been convicted collectively, and that's the part concerning the euro and kuna loans, where they have also negotiated unfair interest rates. What were the banks doing? The banks also agreed between 2004 and 2008 on an unfair currency clause, which they were condemned for, they also agreed on unfair interest rates, which is why they were also condemned, and what they were not yet condemned because there was no collective process in that sense, no collective process was launched because of unfair interest rates from the euro and kuna loans because at that time when we started the collective litigation was not yet, there was still no awareness among the citizens that the banks were taking them also due to interest rates. What happened because banks negotiated unfair contractual provisions? It happened that in the last 15 years banks have taken 15 billion kuna from Croatian citizens on the basis of unfair CHF loans and another 5 billion kuna on the basis of unfair interest rates from the euro and kuna loans. This impacted negatively on Croatian demography because Croatian citizens are thus impoverished, many families are poor, their purchasing power has fallen, and as a result of the fall of purchasing power, it is lower and GDP is lower and the state budget is lower than it would have been if banks had done fair business. On the contrary, banks had extra profits due to the use of unfair contractual provisions, due to the illegal arrangement of contractual provisions, they had extra profits for the 15-20 billion kunas I mention. What are the consequences for Croatian citizens? I've already said, they've been poored, they've lost their purchasing power, there's been marital shipwrecks, there's been marital crises, there's been a variety of psychological traumas, a large number of citizens, unknown how many there are, there's a kind of PTSD, post-traumatic syndrome, which doesn't have to be just wartime, it can be caused by any kind of trouble in life, this time by foreign-owned banks. I must point out that the Croatian Postal Bank, which is state-owned, has not negotiated unfair contractual provisions. This should also be noted, so these banks, which are owned by foreign banks, thanks to domestic representatives in these banks, have just negotiated such unfair contractual provisions because in banks, the banks of mothers located in the mother countries of those daughters, such contractual provisions on unfair interest rates were not negotiated because they are not to be negotiated, as they are not to be negotiated either in the Republic of Croatia. Due to these psychological traumas, some people raised their hands and committed suicide. In addition, there was an unknown number of actions because when people stopped paying their contractual obligations because they couldn't because they grew up, even to 100%, people stopped paying because they couldn't pay because they had no place to pay because when your contractual obligation grew 100%, it was hard to do something there and it can't be said that these people were then economically, financially illiterate. If you grow a contract provision 100%, it has nothing to do with financial literacy but it has to do with fraud. What exactly does this deception consist of? Here, I will very plastically explain to you the example of only one consumer. Any one of them. The consumer wants to set up a loan to buy an apartment. And at that point, various loans are offered, loans are offered with the euro currency clause, kuna loans are offered, not everywhere, kuna loans were not that much at the time and are offered as a new product, a super product that came from space, an amazing product, a product, a credit with a Swiss franc currency clause. Advertises, for example. Hypo bank, little hippo horses, as children go to kindergarten, advertised with lots of flowers, all smiles on their faces, something beautiful, the interest rate is lower than the euro loans. And this lower interest rate is negotiated in the same way as in the euro loan, is changed by the bank's decision. And now, part of the citizens, let's say, the consumer is not creditworthy, many were not creditworthy for the euro currency clause, but it's creditworthy for this currency clause CHF because it's a lower interest rate and it's not that much, for one percentage point. For example. This one is 5%, and this one is 4%, but thanks to that only one percentage point, man is creditworthy. So what's the bank doing now? Having agreed on an illegal interest rate, it has already increased that interest rate to 5% after half a year. Well, after a year at 6%. The interest rate followed the interest rate from the euro credit all the time, therefore it was not much lower, but only at that very first moment it was lower so that man could raise a loan that he could not otherwise raise. And what's going on. With CHF growth, growth and interest rates. It would make sense if they fell, but they didn't fall, they grew, and what happens? People are growing wars after the growth of exchange rates and interest growth even up to 100%, and as a result, people come into all these problems that I have explained and now to our state candidate, our state attorney, this does not fall into fraud, it does not seem to be an abuse of trust, and unfortunately, to such a candidate I cannot give my vote, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u202967	Now it's Mr. Zeljko Lenart's turn to speak in front of the Club of Representatives of HSS and Democrats, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u202968	I would like to thank the Honorable Vice President, Secretary of State, ma'am. Gold. The issue of the election of a state lawyer, the main state attorney in the Republic of Croatia, is a topic that should be of interest to all citizens, especially all those who deal with the economy in particular those who deal with politics and who participate in the conduct of public affairs that should be done in favour of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Croatia. Unfortunately, here I am just reading the Freedom House report that says that Croatia has not made any progress in the development of democracy. And today's topic is proof of that, the choice of the attorney general, i.e. Lawyers, it is certainly not a democratic act and it is not certain that something that could say will improve the next state of the Republic of Croatia when Freedom House delivers a new report on the state of democracy in the Republic of Croatia. The Republic of Croatia has become the most corrupt of new EU members and can say almost all EU members. So, unfortunately, people out there who are not even referred to all the topics that are being addressed today and all the facts, but it is very clear to all of us that there is political corruption, we are aware of these parliamentary majority that are based on the tokens that were so called M. Bandich, which are all obviously bought because for many, it is not possible to say that they simply changed their political beliefs if it is not a material benefit or some kind of convenience that they would change their party belief. Many have also bought real estate in a very short time, but despite the DORH's application to USKOK, nothing has happened until today. I think there are few citizens who think these chips have become chips because of their beliefs. I think 90% of the citizens are convinced that they have received some material goods, employment or anything they used to do. There's corruption in the units of local and regional self-government, it seems to be a obviously normal thing today, and who's being processed, who's being convicted? Unfortunately, no one, almost no one, because there is one that is mentioned by counterpart Bacic, "when you are sued, cadiya sues you", and counterpart Bačić, that's exactly how it is in Croatia, unfortunately, that's what the citizens look at and simply do not hope for justice from Croatian laws, from Croatian courts. Corruption in the judiciary, that's one thing that's the cancer of this society's wounds. You can't cast out justice today if someone wronged you, if you don't have a lot of money for lawyers, if you don't have some sort of connection and God forbid he's a more prominent member of the HDZ, you'll never get out of your justice or it'll go awry or you'll be counter-judged. A colleague of Zekanovic here asked the minister if the lady was a member of the KP of Yugoslavia? I think it's irrelevant, the lady was born, educated and worked at a time when she was a normal thing and if she was a member, she shouldn't blame it, so not all the members of the KP were criminals or worse people even though they existed, and we clearly saw 90,000 members of the Alliance of Communists of Yugoslavia in the early 1990s moved to HDZ. So that would be normal and shouldn't be a problem. As far as the work programme is concerned, the work programme is a dead letter on paper, often for more significant positions, the work programme is written by various services on behalf of those who need neither elected, and that is all normal in Croatia. No one believes in Croatia today that a state lawyer can be independent, independent and can implement his programme without the intervention of HDZ, their pillows and power centres operating in the Republic of Croatia. And that's a fact, it's mostly our citizens know, unfortunately they don't go to elections many, so then obviously they don't want to change, obviously that's how it suits them, so let's make it so for those who don't want to go to elections. The cover-up of cases by both the State's Attorney's Office and other institutions is evident. There are reconnaissances set up with deliberate reconnaissance failures, so today we have children of various powers who trample on the road, kill them with angry cars so they don't even get prosecuted, not to be convicted, to cover up the facts of these events, to have officers' reconnaissances be with great failures, and when the facts disappear, when the evidence disappears, it's too late to ask for the right. And in my county there is great injustice and political corruption in the form of Mayor Ivo Žinic and his deputy Roman Rosavec who also have a number of applications for various criminal acts. But their cases are also in the drawers, stalling, they are the director of the Sisak-Moslavina Police Administration unfortunately put on a short leash and run it as a small sand, I'm sorry man, but apparently they're protected as face bears. I have also asked the president of the HDZ many times and members why they do not respond to it, but apparently they support such a way of working. So remember the Klancir case where Zinic sent the police, a private lawyer paid from the budget to file private charges for him. And not to mention, there is much to be said to the future state attorney I want a lot of success in the work, I hope that what I was talking about will be and it is wrong that she will really shake this criminal lifestyle and lifestyle in Croatia and she will expose many who destroy both business and business, and because of which young people leave Croatia from which we have become the poorest and by all parameters the last EU member states even though both Czechs and Slovaks and Romanians, Poles, Hungarians have looked back years ago, we have been the West and an example for them even though we were a communist country, but nothing has been achieved. And today I read that Orban put on his official Facebook profile maps that drew the former borders of Hungary with parts of Croatia, Serbia, Romania, with the Croatian coast, but I did not read anywhere that the political summit was responding. It is not the first time that Orban has shown his appetites for Croatia in this way, to show or joke, but I would not take it as a joke, I expect that the state summit together with Prime Minister Plenkovic and all those who are relevant responders to such provocations by Viktor Orban and, obviously, the Hungarian sides. If we're going to see these provocations peacefully, then we don't deserve anything but to lose what we've fought bloodyly and what's called the Republic of Croatia, whatever it is. The HSS will not support this choice, not because of Mrs. Zlata Hrvoje Šipek's person, but because of the way and the structure that this choice is made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u202969	Mr. Grbin was looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u202970	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. He's a respected colleague, I hope he didn't intentionally hurt Article 238. Rules of Procedure on the work of the Croatian Parliament when it presented one notorious inaccuracy, one thing that does not stand, which is that the state summit did not react. The president of the Republic of Croatia has reacted very strongly to Orban's provocations, but those who have not responded were representatives of the government and the foreign ministry. So there are in this land those who will react, and God and those who will be silent.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u202971	Thank you very much. It was a replica, right, not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but we're moving on. We're moving on to individual debates, here's Mr. Branko Bacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u202972	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State with an associate, respected colleagues and colleagues, I signed up for an individual debate to support Mrs Zlata Hrvoje Šipek's election as chief state attorney. It is a matter of national law as a monastery and an independent judicial body in Croatia and, therefore, given its constitutional position, it is extremely important to choose, appoint a person who will fully act in accordance with the Constitution in his work and in the work of the State's Attorney General, which is that it will be independent of all other segments of the government and carry out and do affairs just as the Constitution and the laws of the Republic of Croatia are prescribed. What I'm trying to say is that for the first time in Croatia, this transparent procedure has been conducted on the basis of a public call from the main state attorney. After which the government, after which it called the State-Law Council, after which the government carried out a triage and a basis for the talks, interviewed the candidates with the proposal to appoint Ms. Zlata Hrvoje Šipek. What I can say is that Mrs. Zlata is a prominent lawyer with a rich state-law experience and that there is no stain in her career that would compromise her in any way that the Croatian Parliament supports her in her appointment. Certainly, the appointment of a top state attorney is a couple of excellent political issues, it has no dispute. Our law stipulates that the main state attorney, or chief state attorney, should in this case be appointed by the Croatian Parliament on the basis of a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Croatia. That it's a couple of excellent political issues, as I said, speak also ways of electing state attorneys around the world and Europe, where it's somewhere in the jurisdiction of parliaments, somewhere in the jurisdiction of the government, somewhere like in the United States even going through elections, so it's an absolute political issue in the state. But what is important after the elected attorney general or, in this case, the attorney general, he or she in her work must be absolutely impartial from politics and enforce the law in the preservation of the property of a state whose principal state attorney, or attorney, and also act ruthlessly in persecution, in the prosecution of all those who have sinned against the law. What we can witness here in the Croatian Parliament, is that there are among us fellow parliamentary representatives, especially those who come from the left political spectrum, professional applicants, as a rule officials from another political option. Is it irrelevant, according to the Attorney General, whether according to the Committee on Conflict of Interests, but in any case, slowly grows up among parliamentary representatives of persons who, according to their habitat, are professional notifiers and after applying their colleagues, raise such reports to the level of political case, which is why they are looking for a quick, spotty response because they are right and are looking for almost, I would say, a public trial, a guillotine or a fire to the persons they have reported, and for which they generally have no arguments or evidence whatsoever. And they're very loud when they report, but they're silent, they don't say a word when their application is rejected, then they're silent, they're gone, and they never apologize for what they are, what they're doing. It is their constitutional right to report, all records or criminal acts, but we are participants and witnesses that there is a lot of roadways like this. [[I'm sorry, but...]] [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]] [[Intruder:...time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u202973	Excuse me. ... I apologize to everyone, but you'll have replicas, then. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Now, if you don't stop talking, I'm gonna take a break, I'm gonna go get some coffee and I'll come back when you guys finish your debate, okay? Okay. Mr. Gordan Maras, come in. ... Replica. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u202974	Okay. Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Col. Bačić, you mentioned in your debate, you are probably a little itchy, one situation that when you say something publicly that everyone in Croatia sees, here's to say that you do not take any responsibility for the disaster that took place in Split, where almost 20 of our citizens died because of the incompetent management of the home, i.e. the human-involvement of the HDZ Škaričić, a graduate. archeologists in that place and you probably think of such cases, but unfortunately in Croatia that's the way it is. HDZ has closed the judiciary and judges only those who suit them, and on the other hand, those who should be processed and looked at what they have done, protected. Especially if they're HDZ. Well, Sanader hasn't got the verdict yet. Scissor's innocent. Says Minister Berosch, it's the virus. Look, the only virus that does damage in Croatia is HDZ. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u202975	Answer, Mr. Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u202976	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Maras, you speak of others from your own political experience. The fact that you, yourself and the SDP are willing to frame each other, sue, urinate to the judiciary, that's your problem and your way and modus operands of SDP's conduct you're trying to transfer to another. And because you SDP have requested the resolution of the vice president of HS, vice president of the representative body, vice-president of the legislature, because the virus entered a home in Croatia, it is unmarked in Croatian politics. It's a hypocritical attempt by the SDP to try to score a cheap, disgusting political point on the tragedy of some people who died because of the coronary virus. I'd be ashamed of it if I were you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u202977	Thank you. Mr. Batinic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u202978	Thank you, Vice President. When you mentioned the rejection of corrupt activities, I believe that you will support the part I said in the debate that the state's attorney's report should explain in more detail the reasons for the rejection of corrupt applications. .../incomprehensible/... precisely because the creation of a feeling, or perception of corruption in the Republic of Croatia, is currently resting on it, to a large extent, you assume. So I believe that you will also represent that view, that opinion, and in the report itself, and that we will all work together through the debate to get as much quality information as possible for the very reason of the rejection.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u202979	Mr. Bacic, the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u202980	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Batinić, I agree absolutely with you. I am a supporter to select, however, a person who is professional, moral, quality and suitable for the performance of that duty and very important duties in Croatia as the main state attorney or attorney. But I am also a supporter that in no way do I or my political party participate, do not put any pressure on the independence of that judicial institution. The principle of tridivision must be a sacred principle in Croatia, that the independent judicial authority is executive and legislative, it is up to us to make it in the Croatian Parliament, make a legislative framework for which the State's Attorney's Office will have to act, the task of the executive is to ensure that this work is better, better and more effective and that I see the impact of the legislation on this independent judicial body.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u202981	Thank you very much. Let's move on with the debate, Mr. Gordan Maras, come on in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u202982	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, I am glad that just behind Mr. Bačić I have the opportunity to speak especially after this replica where he and I have admitted that HDZ does not want to take responsibility for the tragedy in Split, of course when the results are to be praised, when the campaign is to be done, when Minister Berosa should be pushed into the first plan, they have not been given a representative anymore, then the crown is good, then the whole situation is appropriate, but when it is necessary to take responsibility for the love of Škaricic in his home in Split, and then do not mention it, it is not ok because HDZ cannot take over the responsibility, colleagues and fellow citizens, for its members who have done criminal acts, it is well known by Mr. Bačić because Sanader has not yet been responsible for his misdemeans, HDZ has not yet returned 30 and some million stolen from the Fimi media, that Mr. Bačić, and then says that someone presses the justice as if we have pressed their members of HG to the white man and to the Croatians to the white man. And that's why we're not gonna get tired and we're not gonna stop talking about it because people figure out what HDZ is like. People have to understand that Minister Beroš at the moment when he said the virus was guilty, stopped being watched by Croatian citizens to worry exclusively about their health, showed here that he cared about HDZ because they sent a message, Minister Beroš sent a message, that HDZ should not be responsible for mistreatment in the crown, should not be Škaricicic, must not be the false president of the Boban headquarters, it must not be the one who appointed them all together by Ante Sanader, HDZ must not be guilty and, in fact, downstairs in a home in Split is the sole culprit of what happened, the bad organisation and political humanisation of the HDZ. Everybody knows that. This is what the Splitans know, all of Croatia because laughing at Croatian citizens when they say the headquarters is a profession and everyone in the headquarters is HDZ, so is it possible that out of 4 million people in Croatia no one outside of HDZ is professional enough to be in the Civil Protection Headquarters and to represent Croatia at that time? Well, that's basically the paradox of the whole situation, and that's what needs to be responded to, and to what needs to be warned, is not Croatia, you're not protected from irresponsibility, you've been stealing Croatia for years, at this point you're stealing Zagreb's protection of Bandic in the City Assembly, you've sent today not only the prime minister who was there to talk about how MPs in the City Assembly should not show their dissatisfaction but also other "power of order" to dissipate these people. You will not succeed, people realize that you use the crown for yourself, that you are doing all of this to help yourself and protect HDZ from various indisputables that have occurred in the past in both the city of Zagreb and Croatia. You'd better talk about how you're gonna pay back 30 and some million kunas you stole in 2008, where are the verdicts? Where's the justice here, gentlemen of the HDZ? And maybe that's why the state's attorney doesn't have in her program to fight, the future state attorney, excuse me, there's no part in her program that relates to political corruption because it doesn't answer to HDZ. They are not responsible for the conduct of this type of corruption because they live on chips, on Bandić, on services, on non-transparency for 4 years in the Croatian Parliament, this is not the case for HDZ, it is not to be discussed. The opposition can talk about it, and it is not embarrassing to Mr. Bačić, because if everyone is silent in the Republic of Croatia, HDZ will do whatever it wants and it must not be allowed and the most important proof of this today is the relationship of Prime Minister Plenkovic to the Zagrebs, the bahato, with the high, what you have to do here, which you represent the representatives of the opposition in the City Assembly. There is no law on the restoration of Zagreb, you have left the Zagrebs at bay, you have given them crumbs, Štromar 20 000 kunas, so people have spent hundreds and hundreds of thousands of kunas each to solve their chimneys, to solve their buildings so that they can survive and you are telling us here about some justice. You should be ashamed of Mr. Bačić, HDZ is the one to be ashamed of in Croatia and not the ones to be warned about it, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u202983	The first line has Mr. Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u202984	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I can see that Mr. Maras is excited, but here's the thing, he'll come to his senses by the end of the day. Mr. Maras, whether or not the Civil Protection Centre is a profession, this is best said in the data on an outbreak of the coronary virus in Croatia, this is the support of the citizens. According to all relevant public opinion studies, 80% of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, 87% of the population of the Republic of Croatia support the professional work of a professional body such as the Civil Protection Staff and the fact that they are part and members of the HDZ, that only speaks of the strength of the HDZ and that is your problem, especially the jealousy of someone who knows how to do it much better than the SDP would, and on the other hand, the fact that in this crisis, the Government, with its measures, has been able to respond to another challenge and to preserve the Croatian economy. And that's the problem with the SDP, which is why they are this sharp and poisonous arrows from you from the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u202985	Thank you, thank you. Mr. Bacic, thank you. Mr. Maras will answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u202986	You can tell me everything, Mr. Bačić, but if I'm someone who's not in HDZ, look, I'm proud of what I don't have, and in the future I'll have contact with HDZ, so I can't be jealous of it. On the other hand, the headquarters built and lost its expertise when Mr. Beroš said the virus was guilty in Split because HDZ must not be guilty, when Capak said he did not remember, that he did not know if HDZ was a male and would not talk about it. So that's when headquarters lost its professional credibility. When he estimated you couldn't go to the movies or theaters, but you could go to church. That's when headquarters lost its credibility. Well, I didn't, you'll see how the time goes, Mr. Bacic, how much the headquarters will have to support their work that is now working. That's why you're in a hurry to go to parliamentary elections, if you weren't in a hurry, they'd be in. Nine months. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u202987	Mr. Ivan Celic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u202988	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Maras, I don't know if you are in a campaign for the City of Zagreb or for parliamentary elections. So what the profession has done in the Republic of Croatia, those results are the pride of Croatia at global level. This is whether or not a member of the HDZ is entirely secondary. On the basis of the profession, political decisions have also been made, and on this side I understand that some believe that the National Civilian Headquarters also has a political dimension. But to say exclusively that in the headquarters, that only people who are from HDZ do not stand up to you. You're a well-known professor. Branko Kolarić, who is a prominent member of the SDP, is one of the most professional epidemiologists in the Republic of Croatia who is very much engaged in this story and very media presence related to the software "Andrija" I will remind you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u202989	Mr. Maras's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u202990	Thank you very much. I'm saying, Mr. Celic, it's an insult to Croatian citizens to say that the only way to do it is to be in HDZ. Everyone at headquarters is part of the HDZ, everyone. Look at the world's few epidemiologists, look at the American epidemiologist who is one of the world's greatest experts on science, you don't think the Zagreb college is stronger than Harvard or Stanford or other American colleges. That man's been at the head of their service for 35 years, Faucie's name isn't in any party. Look at the German epidemiologist the main same at the head of the Institute of State Science, the well-known whole world quotes it, no party has. Do you know if Andrija Stampar was a member of the party? I will tell you, he was not a member of the party, as an independent man from the party he was also at the head of the Academy of Science and Arts and at the head of the Zagreb Medical Faculty and Rector of the University. So on that side, look. A little bit how it works. [[I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry.]] Only in Croatia, only in HDZ must you be HDZ to be a profession, which is a shame, it is a shame for Croatian citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u202991	Mr. Stevo Culey now has, has a replica. Mr. Stevo Culey has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u202992	Because of the sins of one in the family, you would have executed the whole name according to some of your old habits, and I, as Zagorac, in Andrasevec, burned six protégés home, whether it was my Zagorac Hajdaš or Doncic, replace him and he's guilty of something. Is it your fault the White-haired woman got burned twice, let's ask ourselves that? Let's get all the Marasses out of here for that. Ha, you're a weird guy.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u202993	Replication response, Mr. Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u202994	More important than what you said is even more important than what you said it is very important, and the only thing more important is the support of Boris, because if he supports it then it means that it is the top of the discussion in the Croatian Parliament and he is known as the top orator and the debate is done here, no. So congratulations on supporting Boric. Uh, on the other hand, I wanted to say Mr. Culey, so you yourself admitted here that Scissor is guilty of the sins of one in the family. Because of the sin of one in the family, thinking of Skaričić, the whole family should go, so HDZ stands behind Škaricic, HDZ stands behind Škaricic and is a scandal, which is what we warn, and all the people in Split and Dalmatia must know that HDZ is firmly behind archaeologist Škaricic at the head of the home for the elderly in Split. [[Please, no, please.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u202995	Thank you, thank you, we're done with the replica, and now there is, now has the word Mr. Peja Grbin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u202996	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State, when it became clear that we were going to choose a new chief state attorney or a more media lawyer asked me who I was seeing in that position. I've never reached for a specific name or last name, but every time I set one clear criterion. That it must be a person who has proved herself in the fight against corruption in the past and who has shown that he will know how to repel any conflict of interest that is too common in Croatia. Unfortunately, the procedure that preceded today's debate, the procedure in which this candidate was proposed, was all but transparent and all but without conflict of interest, and as if it were not enough candidates in its work programme to forget political corruption because it is obviously not a problem for Croatia. But let's take the turn. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the procedure in which candidates for the main state attorney of the Republic of Croatia are questioned in the government by members of the government, and behind closed doors is not transparent. However, he is a negation of transparency, he is a reflection of what a modern, democratic state should not be. It is the negation of the rule of law because none of us or I apologize, none of us on this side of the assembly know what arrangements you have reached there. Such a procedure and priori for me means that for the candidate that this procedure has been carried out, I can't raise my hand, but that's not enough. We have a candidate who forgets political corruption and the fight against political corruption in her work programme, and when the media ask her to explain it, she says that we do not primarily fight corruption by criminal proceedings. We don't fight criminal proceedings. Well, it's clear why it's the candidate's position. Because she knows that she needs to be raised by persons who are being prosecuted, who are being treated by the State's Attorney's Office. But not just people. So here in the Croatian Parliament we have a party named after a person who is a jumper and for whom the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia today, the dead-cold says that relations with him are good because I guess that's the most important thing for him right now. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I felt that the choice of the attorney general should not have to wait. To me, DORH is an important institution. An institution that defends the Republic of Croatia against crime, which is to fight corruption, organised crime, against everything that bites the functioning of a modern and democratic state. And I felt that this choice must happen because that institution is the government body, and the DORH is the government's body, it cannot be left without a leader. However, after this procedure has been conducted and after a candidate such as this, I fear it would be best for Croatia to wait for the election because such a choice, completely non-transparent, completely behind closed doors with some kind of promise that we do not know what they are, with the fact that the candidate only applied to the competition after she spoke to the Prime Minister and behind closed doors. This procedure guarantees that we will be back in the 1990s when everything but rights ruled in Croatia. When there was a system in Croatia that was the most important of which political options you came from and we know what was the political option and we know how it returned to us, I will not say small but big door. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the proposed candidate for the main state attorney of the Republic of Croatia has good sides, that is a fact. Its knowledge of civil rights, including the knowledge of procedures conducted in front of international institutions, such as EU arbitration or courts, or the European Court of Human Rights, is high. And that confession should be given to her. However, it is not enough to run an institution such as the DORH. This does not guarantee that we will get a person who will be willing to face organized crime and corruption. And that, dear colleagues and colleagues, is the most important thing right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u202997	Thank you, too. The first replica was sought by Mr. Maria Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u202998	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear counterpart Grbin, was the procedure of appointing the chief state attorney when he proposed him to be the ruling SDP more transparent than this? So for the first time we have this way where there was a public call and where everyone could apply for a public call, the first time we have through the law introduced this kind of procedure. And on the other hand, yesterday, as chairman of the Justice Committee, you had the opportunity to hear the candidate's reply, and today you insinuate that she was at a meeting with the Prime Minister to agree to apply to this, to this duty, and you heard her reply that it was about the case they currently have and which she is dealing with, as the current official of duty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u202999	Answer, Mr. coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203000	Dear colleagues, yes indeed, yesterday I asked the candidate if she was in a meeting with the Prime Minister and her answer was that. She tried to get away with the content of the meeting, but the fact is that even she did not dispute that only after that meeting did she decide and submit to the candidacy. But the content of that meeting is that neither you nor I can talk about it because it was held behind closed doors and when you ask me if, for example, Mr. Cwitan's run for chief of state attorney for the Republic of Croatia, which happened in 2000, it seems to me that for 13 years, it was more transparent than this, my answer was yes, it was. It was. Because the criteria why the successful director of USKOK was proposed as chief state attorney of the Republic of Croatia were clear, and we do not have the criteria today. We only know about the meetings held behind closed doors, where any agreements were made between the candidate for the attorney general and the Government of the Republic of [[Intruder: Thank you.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203001	Mr. Ante Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203002	Thank you, Vice President. A fellow coat of arms, the same question, regarding your objection to the non-transparentity of the procedure itself of selecting the attorney general. We were just changing the law to put in the public call itself and the government's commission to conduct interviews, just what you mentioned about a former state attorney, you say were clear criteria for the proposal. But who suggested it then, and who suggested it now? I think this choice is much more transparent. When we take back the process ourselves, I think the bigger problem with this hierarchicalally highly minded system, who's going to run at all, who has the conditions for candidacy. So, when we see who ran for office, the choice wasn't very controversial. So I don't know why you think in the previous law that it was more transparent, more open, the choice process itself than today.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203003	Answer, Mr. coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203004	Dear colleague, the basic act on the basis of which the main state attorney is elected is unchanged and now and before 2, 6, etc. year, which is the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which clearly states that the Government is proposing, and the Parliament is choosing with the co-operation of the Justice Committee, and no one is questioning that part. However, it challenges the part that precedes the government's decision to run for office. I'm sorry you don't know enough law because if you knew then you'd know that the commission formed by the government wasn't foreseen by the State's Attorney's Law. There is no mention of this commission in the Law on the State's Attorney's Office. This commission is formed by the ad foch decision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and this commission has implemented a procedure which is not foreseen by any law. If you really wanted to be transparent, the government of the Republic would have proposed all six candidates, and we would have listened to them yesterday, 12 hours, 12 hours, but all would have They heard and knew what they were running for. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] and what he's offering. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203005	Mr. Culey has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203006	Dear comrade Grbin, yesterday on the Committee of Justice that everyone in the opposition may have been present perhaps the candidate might not have received enough hands because I will be restrained for one reason. Every peasant in his barn when he makes a reproductive line on his animals he chooses from the mother’s throat the best specimens and then selects several groups. You have line 1 or line 2 and then you pick from that top what you get. So you'll get the same thing, there's no change, or they'll give more milk, or they'll give more calves or less, the mass stays the same, the same one stays the same, there's no change.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203007	Mr. coat of arms, no. Let's move on, it's Mrs. Lukacic in the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203008	Thank you very much. You're questioning Mrs. Zlata Hrvoj Šipek's ability to lead the State's Attorney's Office, so she's a state's attorney. And yesterday you asked her that, and she explained it nicely to you, from her resume you can see that she was also the first deputy and that this was the time since the state's attorney's ex resigned well and well led the State's Attorney's office. I mean, because she's a civil law expert, you can't talk about her inability to become a state's chief attorney. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203009	Mr. Grbin's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203010	Dear colleagues, I'm sure you won't hear from me because I don't think that the head of the State's Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia should be someone from the civil branch of the judiciary. However, it seems even good to me because in one segment it might shake the system. However, what bothers me in this case is an election process that was completely non-transparent, and the second is what the candidate listed, and even more what she did not mention in her work programme. At a time when chips must vote for it, at a time when USKOK's indictees must vote for it, when it must be supported by a party bearing the name of the USKOK indictee, do not mention political corruption in its work programme means or do not know what you are running for or calculating for, and frankly, I do not know which one of these two options is up to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203011	You, too. Mr. Miro Bulj has his word now.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203012	Respected representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues, the people expect justice from the judiciary. Unfortunately, it is the judiciary and injustice in Croatia that prevails from justice. The Croatian state was devastated, I was robbed only when I looked from where I came from how much of it was robbed I always mentioned the money for the weapon was alienated in '91. when it was more necessary than bread, when it was the greatest major Serbian aggression, I filed criminal charges and I never got an answer where the money was at the defense of Sinja and Cetinski's end. Nor did I get the bill that money was returned. Whatever it was about me or Tedescho, there's no answer. When the blood was spilled, the judiciary didn't do its job or the State's Attorney's Office. Given that in the Republic of Croatia 2/3 is empty due to, 2/3 of Croatia is empty because of lack of confidence in the judiciary, it is by all surveys, it is in all talks and it is a key problem. If it stays the same in the state's attorney's office, what do we get? The continuation of the same policy. If it's one of the '80s. The year so far in the State's Attorney's Office and has not dealt with criminal law but quite another, whether it will resolve it from local sheriffs, to the top of the government in the economy, war criminals, will not. I'm sorry to say that. Neither will they hear the cry of the Dalmatinka worker nor the Auto Transporter, nor the Jugoplasty, nor the Zadar Association Solidarity, Bagat, where 2 billion kunas have come to the OTP Bank, our Hungarians have given, nor will they hear of the INU of our energy company, nor will they hear of the Cengic family cry from Ervenik, nor of Škabrnja, nor of Vukovar. They won't hear because the current policy doesn't want to hear the cry of these people from those who created the state and they want the stability of the system. If this state has.../incomprehensible/... I don't know, but I know that when I was 8 years old, I'm interested in what she's done, I'm interested in what she's done except for the deal she had with Andrei Plenkovic, what she's done. We have absolutely no answers about war crimes, the honourable secretary of the government and the assistant minister. They came to me personally as MPs, people who were under Serbian camps, who defended Vukovar and Borovo, I led them to the State's Attorney's Office. They know the name and the name of those who have been harassed, oppressed, terrorized, killed, raped, slaughtered, no one reacts. No one responded to one good man, Schreter, Dr. The sretter who founded your party and who called people of Serbian nationality to his brothers, no one reacts because M. Pupovac's coalition partner depends on whether the state's attorney will pass and Mr. Pupovac knows everything about Dr. Pupovac. Well, let him finally tell us where the bones are in the state's attorney's office. Schretter. This system was demonized by the Croatian people, the people know it, unmanages it, worse than all the occupiers, by Turks, Milk, Serbs, communists, fascists, Nazis, you have more demonstrated the Croatian state in blood created in the community of Croatian peoples, in the community than all those tyrannys that have passed so far. It was saddened to pass to the Croatian empty because of people and young people who because of their mistrust in the bodies of the judiciary, however, the State's Attorney's Office because it is a purely and exclusively political body that works in the interest of political oligarchy in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203013	Thank you, thank you very much. You have one replica of Mr. Ice cream.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203014	Thank you. Dear colleague Bulj, it is clear that this is all a farce and that nothing will happen after the election of the state's attorney. We have all the time swearing to fight corruption and when some anti-corruption law comes to the Croatian Parliament, then it is rejected. In a few hours here, it will be held in this parliamentary debate of the Law on the Registration of Costs of All Politicians who will be rejected in moments when Croatia awaits a major recession, when people will wait in front of the soup kitchens, ruling not to announce what politicians spend their money on. So, a very simple thing. It is about politicians throughout the Republic of Croatia, employees and directors of state-owned enterprises, city institutions and a large amount of money.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203015	Answer, Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203016	Not only that, they've politicized the epidemic. When the people, when they saw the footage of course, naturally fear the disease, we need to protect ourselves from the disease, when those people who brought the experts into the political waters, have now prescribed the elections, and to preserve the formations of the county, in order to preserve where the virus entered, when we were all in the bunker, when Minister Beros called everyone in the bunker, the lords lock themselves up, babes, doi, all of them, there's no exit of the virus, where did the virus go in? According to Major Mayor Omis, director of the Skaričić nursing home, the virus entered us in '95, in extensions, where he shouldn't be and where Boban and Sanader Ante are responsible.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203017	Thank you. Thank you very much, we continue to discuss the point of the motion for a decision to appoint Zlata Hrvoj Šipek to the main state attorney of the Republic of Croatia, and now it is up to individual debates and the first is now up to Mr. Marko Šimić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203019	I thank the Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, and I welcome the representatives of the Ministry of Justice who are present at this session and distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Today, we are discussing a proposal for a decision to appoint a top state attorney, or chief state attorney. We are all familiar with the fact that in February 19th, the attorney general resigned from the post and that at that time we set out to elect a new state attorney, i.e. the need was created to choose a person who would act as the attorney general. Until this election, we had a law that had been in force for many years and by which they were elected, so far elected top state attorneys, today I heard a lot of criticism in the debates of my predecessor colleagues about the transparency of this election so far for the attorney general. At the beginning of my debate, I must say that we should just remember how elected predecessors were, and not so long ago we chose Mr. Jelenić by the same principle, we chose Mr. Cvitana and Mr. Bajic by the same rules and then in 2013 there was no explicit objection to non-transparentity and someone would be offended that we respected them the right to therefore position at the time that the people chose, to challenge their right to choose the attorney general. I must point out that these amendments to the laws that entered into force on 1 September 2018, if I am not mistaken, have really contributed to the transparency of this procedure, have introduced a public call issued by the DORH 11. 3. In 2020, we know that we have all arrived at the CVs and programmes or reports of that public call, passed on to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, in what circumstances this election took place, we know that we have faced the biggest pandemic in the last 100 and more years and the Government of the Republic of Croatia has reacted in a way that has not been difficult with the selection of the main state attorney, so within the shortest time possible, a commission of the prime minister and five ministers most often co-operated, communicate with the justice system, and so the commission has heard candidates, reviewed the CVs and the programmes that have been delivered to them and their opinion, its court on everything, delivered to the Government at its meeting on 30 April 2020, so a few days ago, or a proposal for a decision to appoint a state attorney. For the reason that I have been involved in the debates, therefore, of the report by the attorney general, in the last 4 years of this term, I must say that we have also pointed out very often in these discussions the recommendations of the European Commission. I see that they are very often abused today, that there was something that really does not stand in them, I will say that there are certain measures in these recommendations to achieve therefore better quality and better transparency, or the effectiveness of Croatian justice, and that this government has really respected them. This is not an assessment of the Croatian judiciary in 2020, it is not an evaluation in 2019, it is an assessment of some previous periods, and this government I am sure has made the greatest efforts to not only the institutions of the judiciary in the Republic of Croatia but all the institutions of the state and local strengthening. How? This government, I must point out, has strengthened the primary financial structure of these institutions, human capacitation, and we can see by the number of DORH employees that today more than there have been in some previous periods, we have investment in infrastructure, for the first time the issue of USKOK has been resolved, digitisation, information that really helps in this period of pandemic, human education. It's really been invested in all kinds of spheres. The most important thing is what we HS do, indeed for every institution, and for both the DORH and the judicial institutions, we had on several occasions packages of measures that we reformed, modernised the work of these institutions, especially these DORH institutions. Personally, I will support this proposal, or a proposal for a decision on the selection of the attorney general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203020	Thank you very much. Mr. Ante Bacic has his first line.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203021	Thank you, Vice President. As Vice-President of the Justice Committee, I am pleased that you have just reiterated in your debate the course of elections and the procedure for the appointment of the Attorney General, you have participated in the same course and for the former state attorney, you know how it goes. We see that most of the debate on foreign opposition has been precisely on the non-transparency of the proceedings itself, now with the amendments to the law and the introduction of the commission that the government has appointed, do you think that we can further improve it or that this is sufficiently quality and transparent as far as the appointment process itself is concerned? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203022	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203023	Dear colleague Bačić, I thank you for your replica. Yes, and I've looked back on the inaccuracy in calling for non-transparency during this election. I must say that in the last two elections as many as I was a member of the Committee on Justice and where I participated in asking questions or popularly called candidates for chief state attorneys, never before have the candidates received that number of questions, never have those questions been directed in this way and never have there been such transparent and certain answers. As for earlier proceedings, the government of the Republic of Croatia would sooner choose a man, choose a lawyer who meets all the qualifications set and proposes his appointment as chief state attorney. Today we have a system in which everyone interested in conduct and duty could file their application, give their programme and résumé, and I believe that we have chosen the best this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203024	Mrs. Ljubica Maksimchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203025	Thank you, Vice President HS. Dear fellow Shimic. In your debate, you spoke about the programmes or the selection of all the members so far, that is, the president of the DORH, but of course also about the election of Mrs Zlata Hrvoj Šipek, but what I particularly welcome is that Mrs Šipek put in the focus of her programme the crimes of family violence and crimes against the environment and health. And secondly, for the first time at the head of the DORH, we're going to have one woman and I'm sure that if and because of everything else, and all of those other competences of hers, and because of this, we're going to prove that a woman can lead and be the head of the state's attorney's office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203026	Thank you, Mrs. Maximchuk. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203027	Thank you, Mrs. Maximchuk, for the replica. Dear MPs, I must point out that the government of the Republic in the selection of all the top men in office in this term has really fought for the most professional and professional and qualitative people to come to them. When it is a woman and we welcome it and, in fact, in the Republic of Croatia, there is no doubt that women are equally valuable and equally competent to perform certain duties. We have just finished with a session of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and a political system where we have had a proposal to amend the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Ombudsman, where the institution, or the institution, is headed by the same woman. We have a committee to decide on a conflict of interest whose head is also a woman. You know, I believe that in the Republic of Croatia, by choosing women as president of the state, the Croatian people actually showed how much they value women and that there is no gender difference. I would also like to emphasise that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has shown in its work so far that all efforts are being fought against violence, even sometimes at the expense of its ratings.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203028	Thank you very much. And finally, Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203029	Thank you very much, Vice President. Comrade Simic, you have mostly looked back on transparency in your debate. So, the fact is that this tender was carried out somewhat more transparently than the previous basis of GRACO's amended law, however, this transparency was actually reduced to this particular public tender, everything else was... transparent. And when your colleague asked you if something should be further improved, I am also asking you this question because GRECO has made it clear that this transparency involves very clear, objective and transparently presented criteria based on which the attorney general will be elected. We didn't hear any of that. So, what were the criteria by which the proposed candidate was the best? There is a key problem when we talk about the transparency of this process.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203030	Mr. Simic's answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203031	Dear colleague Jovanovic. I thank you for the replica. A little earlier, your colleague coat of arms referred to this issue and this subject in his discussion. Yes, according to GRECO's recommendations and the criteria set out in these recommendations, the Government of the Republic of Croatia in this election and when making a proposal for this decision was led precisely by these criteria which GRECO stated in its recommendations. Your colleague Grbin said in his debate that your government was guided by some criteria, but she did not then say to the public what the criteria were and today we did not hear what special criteria and special abilities were in earlier state attorneys whom I heard today that the most criticism on the work of the State's Attorney's Office was just coming from your club of representatives and you yourself were the state attorneys, by some criteria only you were elected to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203032	Thank you very much. Let's move on with the debates, it's Mr. Ante Bacic's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203033	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Secretary of State, esteemed advisors. I'm glad we're here in this last debate and I think that's how it's going to go to the very end, back to the very essence of this motion decision, which is just the appointment of Zlata Hrvoj Šipek to the main state attorney of the Republic of Croatia. The first few discussions, in particular on behalf of clubs, were more politicised and debated about the work itself, the DORH as if the point was the report by the attorney general for a certain year which we had had to discuss in the Croatian Parliament, and I am glad that we have returned to the methodology and the very terms of the selection of the attorney general and how it is going, that with the amendments of the law and that we have introduced this very public call for this very high judicial duty for which few of us have just met in some way conditions, which we also see by the number of candidates who have applied this year for the position of the chief state attorney, we know that the last chief state attorney has resigned in this place, we know the very reasons and I think it is good that we are doing a certain continuity and for the knowledge of the state attorney's system itself, which we also have to point out that it is very subtle and hierarchicalized by the fact that the fact that the fact that the fact that the right of the system in which the Committee, the right of the fact, the right of the right of the right of the matter of the matter of the matter of the matter of the matter in which of the matter of the business of the business of the business of the matter of the matter of the matter of the business of the system of the system of the system of the system of the system of the system of the system of the system of the system of the system of the system of the system of the system of the system of the system of the system of the committee of the system of the system of the system of the system of the system of the system, which of the system, which of the system of the committee of the committee of the committee of the committee of the system of the committee of the committee of the committee of the committee of the system of the system of the system, which of the system of the system of the system of the system of the system of the system of the system of the system of the system of the system, which of the committee of the system of the system of the system of the system of the system of the system of the system of the system of the system of the system of the system of the system of the subject of the system of the system of the subject of the system of the system of the system of the system of the subject of the subject of the subject of the subject of the system As for the State Attorney's Council and its public call, the candidates themselves later joined the discussion before the Committee appointed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, here we have seen recommendations on whether this commission should have been approached, that this interview, that it may have been public or that all candidates should have been invited to present their programmes, I think that from the moment the Government of the Republic of Croatia was elected, it was not necessary to explain at all how a particular candidate for the main state attorney is coming to this day when there is still a public call and a certain commission which is being examined by candidates who, after that main candidate elected by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, came to the Justice Committee itself and here today in the debate in the Assembly, I think it is a major and quality shift. There have been a lot of grudges, not a grudge, but some instructions and suggestions why, at the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the main state attorney of civilians and not a criminal, we can discuss it although I think it might be a little different perspective, most of the DORH we look through criminal law and criminal proceedings, so it will be interesting for a civilian to go a little bit into the arrangement and organisation of the system itself and we will see normal, and the changes that will bring it. At the Justice Committee itself when we had the opportunity to discuss and discuss with the candidate for the main state attorney and ask her certain questions to which she was giving us answers, I stressed that we should definitely return and strengthen the Institute of Agreements, especially from a sector from which the attorney general comes and that is the civil part of the State's Attorney's Office, we have a large number of state litigation with citizens and related to and... and land-book issues where we know in advance about how this lawsuit and how this dispute is going to take place, there we are wasting a lot of time and money and citizens themselves but normally and the system of the State's attorney, so I believe that the new state's attorney will put a great emphasis on the process of the settlement itself and what I initially mentioned, and these are the trainees. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think this is positive that 30 counselors have been in the last two years, i.e. 30 deputy state attorneys have been promoted for the last two years, but we definitely need to get a large number of trainees into the state's attorney's system, we can't just extend to the state's attorneys so they don't get angry until 70 years of their work, I believe we have to work on a young man who's going to put out the system himself, which we have to admit, and a lot of people come out of because it's normal, it's easier to be believed, and more liquid to be a lawyer than a state lawyer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203034	Thank you. Mr. Maras has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203035	Thank you very much. Mr. Bačić, you said in your debate that the situation which Mrs. New State is going to be proposed for a new state attorney, in the future, will continue the project on the work of the attorney's office and that the debates so far have acted at the beginning not to go in that direction, to deal with a topic which is on the agenda rather than with other matters. I'm interested in what you think you're coming from Split, whose responsibility is for nearly 20 deceased people in a home in Split, do you think it has anything to do with Mr. Škaričić's unhappiness, dipl. The archaeologist who runs that home and do you think someone should answer for it? Do you think as a representative in the Croatian Parliament that the state's attorney should have something to say? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203036	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203037	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Maras, I think the State's Attorney's office definitely has its word on it, and that's exactly what she's up to, so all these reconnaissances that the two ministries have done and their findings on this information now, what we have, they're being sent over to the D.O.R.P.D.P.P.D. In this course, normally no one from DORH will speak any details because these findings are at this point, i.e. Their reconnaissances at the moment, secrets. Anyone they evaluate and see in these findings that is responsible in this system is likely to be prosecuted, so I don't think I see any problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203038	- Mrs. Crescent. Maximchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203039	Thank you very much, Vice President HS, dear colleague Bacic. We could see that in the DORH report for 2019 that there were only 16 trainees and you referred to that number in your discussion. It is also said that no judicial officer is under 30 years of age, and it is evident that all later conditions for the appointment of deputies are met, do you believe that there is room for progress?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203040	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203041	Comrade Maximchuk, thank you for asking. Thanks for that replica. There's definitely room, I think we've heard from the minister himself, but also the candidate for chief state attorney that this system of advisors and deputies in some future is not good about the system itself, it takes a lot of steps to develop into a strong deputy or strong state attorney. We must stress that for seven years, there has been no employment and training in DORH, the last two years that something has moved. We have a decade of quality lawyers who don't have access to the DORH, and I believe they would contribute a lot, not only to the DORH, but also to the courts, so I hope that this year that will follow there will be years of training and rejuvenation, not only of the DORH, but also of the courts in general.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203042	And now it's Mr. Stevo Culey's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203043	Your Honor, Vice President. Talking about this topic is relatively easy. Especially if you have four approaches to this topic because this morning when I was thinking about what I'm going to say today, four topics have opened up for me. But first, I haven't seen a candidate here, the first topic of waste, I can't ask a question. Then I got the minister out of here, and the subject goes down. Now I've got two more, so I'll try those two... I don't want him to come to me any bigger, so I wonder if I forgot anything to say here. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Six questions I haven't answered since 2017, and when an honest friend tells you, don't, what you need, don't wave, don't, you'll burn. That's the DORH, that's the judiciary and that's what I'm gonna talk about. What's her name, Laura Kövessi, the state prosecutor of Romania. She prosecuted the prime minister, 5 ministers, 16 MPs, 5 senators, 90 mayors, 32 directors of public companies, 500 people in administrative positions and is now the EU's chief prosecutor. Why don't we have one Laura Kövessi or one, as she was called, but it doesn't matter. Orleans. Virgin Orleans, we don't have it in Croatia or ever have it, you know why? Because always as soon as one of them runs forward, the other one behind him, pulls it out, don't, don't, we got you here and there. If you do that, we'll do that to you. For what? Because they have, because long-term friendships and other relationships are connected, they will never do it. Should I talk about war crimes? It's already minor, I'm already tired of it and my show down there is called Don't throw your pearls in front of the pigs. It didn't go to all the MPs in HS, but mostly those who needed 5 meters or one minute to come to my exhibition, and they didn't behave to come, but they ran to Borovo Village to insult the memory of those there. They're gone, to answer me. Here, I thought the Minister would give, here is a photograph of an old man and an old woman in Tenja sitting on the stairs, and they are kept by one volunteer Chetnik, these old people, Croats and Croats, losing every lead, and he is a witness and lives in Croatia, has his own address. Who should I give it to? I won't give it to you. Let it stay on your conscience. Think about what I'm saying, what I'm saying will be written down. This is what people will see because time is technique, no more keeping quiet. Here's the paperwork on Mr. Pupovac, and look what this is. This is the whole lab I've made for him alone. With testimony, with his co-operation with the murderers of Dr. Šretera, this is Vesmar, Pavić Branko, Veljko Jakula, all those who met him in the Chicago River in '91. Who cares? I handed it over to the police, handed it over to the DORH, asked a representative question, among these six. But there's no answer. You know why there isn't? Because we still need it, we might spend it all the way, we'll give it millions, he'll spit on the Croats and the Croats through his news. But he should. But those who take off don't need them. I know my adventure in HS was short, but it's fertile. People heard, people won't forget. There will be others who will continue these stories. Those who continue to call the responsible will remain. Until there is a Lady Orleans or Laura Kövesi in Croatia who will come, not tired, tired like this, in front of retirement, old people who are just trying to pick up where their predecessors stopped, and the same were, says Jelinic, I am the child of the DORH. You're a little too much for a DORH kid, and is this DORH's mommy? Mommy, retire. Keep your grandchildren safe. Not here. There are many of them, but there are those who would like to work in Croatia, young forces who would be able to change the situation in the Croatian judiciary that is most corrupt, as far as we can see we are worse than Romania, and they rose from the Balkan mud, only we can't because of the mud on our feet that we drag away from those happy ones.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203044	Thank you, the next individual debate will be the respected representative of Stjepan Curaj, he is gone, he loses his right to speak, and the next one will speak to the respected representative Sasa Djujic, who is not there either, loses his right to speak. The next will then be a respected representative of Domagoj Mikulić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203045	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President, the esteemed Secretary of State with an associate, a fellow Parliamentarian. The poor attitude and perception of the public about the operation of the DORH and the USKOK, as well as the whole of the judiciary, is a fact. The reasons are, to the most extent, a lack of transparency is cited, and perhaps it is because only those sensational cases that have been going through courts through the media for decades, perhaps some cases that do not always end as they wish and as the public wishes, there are certainly bad decisions that are being followed more strongly, and this negative perception is being created. The reason comes within the system, the candidate herself pointed out, refers to the problem of the people, the problem of the resources of the material conditions, and it is good that the future state attorney has detected it, is aware of it and announces the improvement of the conditions and the reorganisation of the system and I sincerely hope that the ministry will follow it. The ministry has taken the first step towards transparency or more transparent work when choosing a new state attorney in a way that is now being made public and that is the fact that whatever others think about it. Today we are discussing here the competences of the person we have as the candidate's choice, ma'am. Hrvoje Šipek from whose CV and programme we see how it is a professional with a continuity of development and advancement within the DORH as well as throughout her career. It is good in view of this situation that we have a candidate from the system to date who will not need additional time and adjustment for effective action. Given the great experience and the fact that the candidate herself cannot go into a new re-election, I want to believe that the state's attorney will do her job the best she can, independently unburdened about potential pressures, either from the public, the media, politics or any other pressures. Since this also represents the crown of the career of Mrs. Croatia Šipek, this is also a message to people in the DORH system that they can expect progress by their professional activities and, of course, that in the term of office the lady would like to see more significant involvement of the younger population in the DORH system and in general in the judiciary where practically very few younger populations and young trainees have been involved back in the last 10 years. What may be less important but certainly represents one change is the fact that the candidate is a woman and will also be the first woman in such a great position. As far as the work programme itself is concerned, I am pleased to see that the work of the future state attorneys stands two newspapers, or more intense persecution for two more crimes, related to domestic violence and crimes against environmental and health damage. It is precisely for the crimes of domestic violence primarily violence against children that the public needs to be sensitised, it is necessary to educate state lawyers and experts who work with victims of these crimes because it happens that criminal charges are withdrawn, victims under the influence of fear use the grace of non-compliance, and the violencees ultimately remain unpunished, which is absolutely unacceptable for our society. It is also very interesting that the candidate also points out the crimes committed to environmental and health damage, which is one positive newspaper especially if we refer to the necessity of preserving our environment and nature but also the situation we have with the COVID 19 virus and it is obvious that these crimes will also be important in the future. The frequent criticism of the work of the DORH, we heard today, is aimed at non-processing war crimes, therefore it is a commendable decision to specialize state lawyers in this important topic and to make the operation of the DORH more quality and efficient, I think it is more than necessary, here just a few days ago we marked the slaughter in Borov village, a terrible massacre against Croats for which no one has been processed and it would have to be since this act announced war on Croatia. In the future, we must all return and strengthen the confidence of the citizens of the institutions by our work and action, today we are discussing the competences of the candidate she certainly has, and in the future we will discuss her reports or her success or failure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203046	Thank you. We've got a few replicas, the first respected representative of Maras, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203047	Thank you very much. I am interested in your position on the process of electing a state attorney for the first time in the history of the Republic of Croatia, the Croatian Parliament, HDZ or the Government of the Republic of Croatia closed the process from the public eyes and we couldn't hear that the interviews of the people who made the call to the competition had passed. So so far, the procedure is if our fellow citizens don't know it was like this. An interview took place, people appeared, and an interview took place before the Parliament's Justice Committee and eventually the parliament voted on the government's proposal. Now, for some unexplainable reason, the whole procedure has taken place in the cabinet of A. Plenkovic, so he personally chose and managed the selection of a new state attorney, and the question is why and what is your position on it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203048	Please, let's all stick to time, shall we?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203049	Yes, of course. Dear colleague Maras, I thank you for your question. I believe that you are familiar with this, a public call went from the State's Attorney's Council, passed through the parliamentary board, will pass through our assembly, and we will be elected by the people chosen by the people, elected by the state's best attorney for the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203050	The next replica is the esteemed MPs Maximchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203051	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleague, in your discussion, you spoke of a negative perception in public when it comes to DORH and other institutions. How can the DORH be more transparent and closer to the citizens, and how do you think it can change the current position on all of this?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203052	Dear Representative Mikulić. The next replica is the respected representative Simic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203054	I thank the vice president of HS. Dear colleague Mikulić. In your debate, you have already highlighted the perception, i.e. the negative perception of DORH, colleague Maksimchuk also pointed out in her replica something similar. I'd just like to draw attention to the fact that most often when we talk about the negative perception of DORH, we're talking about one part of it, and that's exactly the criminal section, the most common processes that end in the media and that we hear about the negative facts, the negative things about their course. So it comes from that area of criminality. In fact, I am pleased that the head of the DORH is most likely to be brought by a person who runs a civil-government department on which we do not have so many persuasive issues, we do not have such a negative perception, perhaps it will influence, by its experience, expertise and professional knowledge precisely on the change of perception of this, in total in the institution of the DORH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203055	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Cellic. And I'm sorry, the answer, the esteemed MP Mikulic, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203056	Thank you, Vice President. Well, well-respected fellow Shimic. We've determined that this perception is what it is, for several reasons, we have processes that last for decades, we have processes that some people don't fit by, when we talk about how they end up. But I am deeply convinced that in the future, the new state attorney will find strength, find ways and reorganisation, but also improving the conditions in the work of the DORH itself will change those trends, as positive ones, and that in the future here in the Parliament, when we have the opportunity to discuss its reports, we will have even more positive reports, even more positive cases solved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203057	And now, the esteemed representative of Cellic, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203058	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear counterpart Mikulic, there have been talks today on how the main state's attorney's election is being chosen, so this way of elections will never completely satisfy all sides. What is definitely encouraging is that it is a person with a rich experience and work within this institution, some would ask the question that today, if today wasn't a choice, what was waiting, some say, now there is a disbandment of the Parliament, why you rushed, so there is always a problem. What happened to me during the presentation, so when she spoke, and that's important everywhere, and that's what's important about these jobs, and that's the question of dialogue, dialogue with the government, if it's about the values of the state property proceedings that the government is actually continuing to manage, and the DORH protects, so that dialogue is extremely important. And that's what she pointed out. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203059	Dear Representative Mikulić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203060	Well, dear fellow Cellic, I think it's important to mention who's calling. They call those who chose the state's attorney as they wanted, and that was democratic enough for them at the time, and today, when chosen through a public call, where virtually all those who meet the conditions can and report it, it is not democratic enough for them. In the end, the state's attorney will be elected by us as parliamentarians who have been elected by the people and elected by us as our people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203061	Thank you very much. The next individual debate was supposed to be a respected representative of Željko Glasnović, who is not there, who is losing his right to speak, and the next one will speak to the respected representative Zeljko Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203062	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate. Here, at the very beginning, I must say that this is an important point, that the choice of the attorney general or the State's attorney is very important in view of the negative perception that the entire judicial vertical in Croatia, and of course, it is always important to make sure that citizens are not fully aware of the role of the DORH, which is the judiciary in that some processes last so long and that we are not in any way coming to a conviction. So it will also be one of the tasks of the new head man, the wife, the DORH to explain to citizens who are the specific role of the DORH, which is the particular role of the judiciary throughout the story. In principle, I believe that this corruptly stolen state, the attorney general must come from the ranks of criminal and legal experts, and therefore I am not happy that the proposed candidate does not have such experience. I believe that legal, professional, procedural and political, therefore, this is not a good solution. We talked a lot about transparency, I have to repeat that GRECO has asked that very clearly the objective criteria for selecting the attorney general, which is not the case, and this is some conclusion that in the future and there is a step that has been made without any dilemma with a public competition for the leader. What is certainly not good again for the future chief state attorney, which will bring crucial votes in her election to the chips from the USKOK-indictee's club, which then creates another bad picture of the relationship between USKOK-indictees and politicians and potential political corruption. So these are immediately the initial problems that the state's chief attorney will have after choosing her. What is clear, therefore, is that it does not come from the criminal justice sector, so that its part of the corruption programme, its first anti-corruption statements, are bad and I hope that this will make it much more convincing in its walk in order to fight corruption. I also welcome that she pointed out that in her future job she will pay much more attention to some criminal acts that have been ignored so far, so by criminal acts committed to environmental and health damage, she will have a very quick real test, so the Split House of Retirement with 20 dead protégés, will be the first test of how seriously the chief state attorney thinks to act in his work. She also stressed that we also welcome, that she will also stress on the protection of women and the prevention of domestic violence, but we are also disappointed with the rather discouraging and amazing findings on the role and position of women in the society in the work in which she speaks in the programme. I think that, too, let's hope that it's some sort of initial awkwardness in public appearances. What I must further highlight, which I read in one piece and in its programme, but also in the report that we have not yet received in the debate, but we received it about the work of the State's Attorney's Office in 2019, in which it says that the structure of the appropriations for the work of the state's attorneys is 66.7% made up expenditure on employees, to the most extent, expenditure on salaries. However, this is nowhere near enough, so the State's Attorney's Office has no expert on financial analysis in very complex cases. Therefore, I expect the Ministry of Justice, as well as the main state attorney, to fight to achieve greater coefficients for such important positions in the DORH system that are completely incomplete, so the question of how can we possibly expect to achieve quality shifts in very complex investigations of economic crime at all. I hope that the main state attorney will also support with her authority the proposal for a legal solution offered by the SDP as regards the fight against the crown of profiteers, since it is indeed equal to war profiteers and I hope that we will be successful in preventing wealth to the detriment of poor and sick citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203063	Thank you, we have several replicas, the first respected representative of the Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203064	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Yes, you're right, colleague Zeljko, the State's Attorney's Office should also be teamed up with people who can do financial expertise because it's fundamental evidence of embezzlement. For example. I'll give you one, public one problem in which the state has remained in addition to health insurance for over a billion and 600 million kunas in the last 10 years. At the same time, this system lives because millions and 600,000 citizens regularly pay 70 kn each month, but what happened? The state used their money to maintain the supplementary health insurance system without paying its dues. What do you think this deserves is a fat investigation and the responsibility of the state by a state attorney if he has the courage to help something like that, but obviously it's a robbery.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203065	Thank you. Dear Representative Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203066	Thank you. A colleague of Hrelj, therefore, is really a serious problem, is not the only case, the state when it comes to the health system, does not meet a significant part of the obligations arising from the basis of the Obligatory Health Insurance Act, but here in the programme presented by the future state attorney, points out exactly that segment of the crimes at the expense of health so that your replica can be an incentive to examine this area, if it has an adequate expert who will be able to carry out a quality financial analysis.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203067	The next replica is the respected representative of Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203068	Thank you, Vice President. counterpart Jovanovic, the new state attorney will probably be elected but remains a major problem and this is a problem of political corruption where she did not exactly point out in her programme that she will fight more significantly against political corruption and it is not only a problem that those large fish who have been tried for years will not be tried for a powerful indictment but rather a problem that no kuna has been returned to the state budget. And then with the right opposition asks us where the money comes from for more people employed by the state administration, at the State's Attorney's office, better infrastructure if there's no money, here's the money, just give us finally these trials to finish, condemn and find where the money is, get them back to the state budget, that's what the people expect, and on the other hand, these big fish are laughing at us from the cover, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203069	Dear Representative Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203070	Yes, I agree with you, therefore, without the rightful judgments and the full confiscation of property acquired by criminal acts and in particular by corruption, there will be no improvement in the perception of the fight against corruption in Croatia and the ability of our judicial verticals. So again, to say that there is a need to share the judiciary with the judiciary, I think the judiciary is an even bigger problem than the State's Attorney's office in over-the-counter process, and therefore, in one piece, I agree with the proposal of a future state attorney who says that some legal solutions should also be amended, the procedural rules to speed up the adoption of powers, judgments or acquittals.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203071	The next replica is the respected representative Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203072	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleague. You listed as a handicap the proposed candidate coming from the civil department, I'm convinced that you had to find something as a negativity so that anyone, that comes from the criminal department, would already find some negativity. I personally believe that this is not a minus, the proposed candidate will not solve the case of Agrokora or any other subject, these are not her powers, she has a whole team of deputies who will handle criminal cases as it has been so far and every state attorney and deputy are independent and in solving the case and in making decisions. What the candidate proposed also stated in her programme, and obviously you didn't notice it, and she said so yesterday at the hearing, so she also has a position on resolving corruption in Croatia and has also proposed something that I think would really contribute to the work of USKOK, which is that USKOK deals only with the most extensive cases of corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203073	Thank you. Dear Representative Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203074	So, colleagues, I really want the future state's attorney to be as successful as possible and to do his job as well as possible. I don't have any fences to support a high-quality man and my remarks, I said, in principle, because I think it would be better if he came from the area of criminal law. I have worked very well with the President of the Anti-Corruption Council and Mladen Bajic and Dinko Cvitan and Jelinić for many years, so it is my desire to make the DORH as successful as possible. And who is at the head of the only thing that interests me is the ability, courage and willingness to resist any pressures from the lines of tokens and similar ones that try to sift in and prevent the normal conduct of the state's legal and judicial affairs in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203075	The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Tomislav Zhagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203076	Thank you, Vice President HS. Dear Secretary of State with an associate, co-workers and colleagues. The State Attorney's Office and its position are defined by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and has the tasks to protect the interests of the Republic of Croatia, its Constitution and its laws. Simply defined task, but extremely important, not only for the Croatian judiciary but for the survival and functioning of Croatian democracy, state and society. Countries that do not have a functional state's attorney's office are doomed by the government of corruption and crime. It is not difficult to conclude that Croatia is on that path. What's going on now? We have the main public outlaws who mock Croatian laws, who mock the Croatian Constitution, who destroy the spirit of society, who destroy the culture of work and who make fools of Croatian citizens. The choice of a state lawyer must not be a party issue, this is a question of the existence and development of Croatia's state and society. The Croatian judiciary is among the worst in the world, Croatian citizens do not believe in the Croatian judiciary, Croatian companies and Croatian entrepreneurs do not believe in the Croatian judiciary, foreign firms do not trust the Croatian judiciary, international organisations do not trust the Croatian judiciary. But you know who believes in the Croatian judiciary? The biggest criminals who are a bigger virus for Croatian society than the crown, for them Croatia is the Wild West and can do whatever they want, and the Croatian judiciary allows them to do so. This is a critical moment in our society, young people come out of Croatia not only because of low wages but because of the state's dysfunction, because we don't have the same rules for all citizens, but that powerful people can do what they want, and ordinary citizens who respect the laws feel unprotected and ridiculed. We have a secret society networked with various interests, and the main feature of their secrecy is the public money that finances them. Public competitions and exaggeration are being set up, employment tenders are being furnitureed, and the biggest criminals are laughing at citizens, entrepreneurs, the institutions of this state, and even the institution of the state's attorney, because they know that no one can do anything to them. Let's just look at what the city and citizens of Zagreb have been doing for 20 years. Zagreb has one of the most corrupt public procurements across Europe, we all see crime, corruption and enormous injustice in the assignment of public money and public procurement. Where's the state's attorney's office? A state attorney's office that is unable to condemn obvious corruption, such a state's attorney's office, we don't need. We need a brave man, a righteous man, a man who first belongs to the Republic of Croatia. We can't go on as old as we are young democracy and we are now through our decisions here in HS we have an opportunity or we act positively to build an independent state attorney's office or continue with an old song. More people believe in fairy tales than in the Croatian judiciary and the impartiality of the state's attorney. Why do I doubt anything will change? Because this is the continuity of the same system and the same way of working that instead of building the institutions of Croatian young democracy he violates the rule of law and the foundations for a prosperous fair Croatia. On what I can base this conclusion, I'll say in the end. It is unquestionable that the state's attorney's office is a key institution for the functioning of democracy and for the prevention of crime and corruption. As in other countries burdened with corruption and crime, when the state's attorney's office does not work responsibly and impartially become its own, that responsibility belongs to journalists. Now at the time of the crown crisis when journalists are exposed to pressures because of a uncertain economic situation, who's going to investigate large criminals? Tell me, is it normal that Ilko Čimić, a journalist of one portal, has discovered more crime and corruption in the last four years than the state's attorney's office? Is that his job or the state's attorney's job? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203077	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Mira Kovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203078	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here we heard a lot about Mrs. Zlata Hrvoje Šipek's candidacy and I have to say what came into my eyes positively, is that Mrs. Šipek was honest enough in her program, and as we talked about perception here, she identified what was not good at the work of the state's attorney's office so far, i.e. what should be fixed. So it's to praise that she was self-critical and that in this first block concerning the persecution of perpetrators of criminal and other criminal acts, which is what we as citizens are most interested in when we talk about the work of the DORH judiciary, that she clearly identified that we have the sub-capacitation of the DORH. And this is usually a pain when it comes to not only Croatia but also some other countries that have been in socialism, that we have not built enough institutions. So I must commend Mrs. Hrvoje Šipek that she clearly said in her program that, for example, We do not have financial investigators in the departments for the confiscation of property benefits obtained by criminal acts in USKOK, but also in state attorneys in Split, Zagreb, Osijek and Rijeka. It is also... that the crimes clearly identify Mrs. Zlata Hrvoja Šipek that there is sub-capcitation and I quote "that strengthening human resources is necessary also because of the current phenomenon in the process of working crime cases relating to an increasing number of complex and extremely large cases of war crimes that we are also dealing with". Therefore, if we want to have a more effective judiciary, if we want to have a more efficient DORH, then it is necessary to have appropriate personnel. It is commendable, I say for the second time, that the candidate has seen it in her program in her communication to all of us. The perception that exists in Croatia can be justified and does not always have to be justified, but is rooted in the people. That it doesn't have to be that way, for example. The case of Germany, a German foundation made one survey of a thousand voters, and it turned out there, "that the professions most respectable among citizens are doctors in the first place, so the professors are university, third place are judges" means people who are in the judiciary. As with us and Germany, the most unpopular politicians, at least the respects challenge, have little more respect for even journalists than politicians themselves. What do I mean by that? If we in Croatia want to develop our economy, if we want to be on a global stage competitive, then we have to have strong structures, we have to have enough good personnel in our structures. We now see from this pandemic that they are in charge of solving the crisis of the national state. Some of them got better, some of them got worse, we're fortunately in the category of countries that got along very well because obviously we have a system, we have a health care system that has proved to be working well. So health care wouldn't have gotten such results if we didn't have enough professional people in key health places. The same goes for our judiciary and the DORH. So we understand this appointment, this procedure as an appeal to pay much more attention to strengthening Croatian institutions in the next period, strengthening the staff needed in key places in the Croatian judiciary, otherwise in Croatian society. If we want to be more economically powerful in the long term, then we will have to have more systems for predicting event simulations in the future, so that in time we restructure our economies not to be long-term, for example. depended on only one sector such as tourism to that extent. I'm personally glad that Mrs. Hrvoje Šipek set herself up like that and I'll support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203079	Thank you. We have two replicas, the first respected representative of Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203080	Thank you very much. Dear colleague. I'm glad you touched this important element, and it's people in the system. So, I'm in the debate on behalf of the club to emphasize it is I think that in every system it's the most important element and that the first man of any system can't do anything alone if he doesn't have the whole system well and capacitated. I think it is also important in this case to say that it is important and how much the salaries of the people in this system are and whether these people in Croatia today can use the same calling for a much bigger monthly salary in another sector. So we have to take care of all this. And I also want to say that in this term last year, we appointed 50 new young people in this system of state's attorneys, and for years we've been neglecting it, and I think we've seen it and we're headed in the right direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203081	Dear Representative Kovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203082	Thank you, Mr. President. I can only confirm my colleague Jelkovac's thoughts. If we want to have a long-term strong, efficient state administration, we'll also have to have adequate salaries for people who work in the state administration. It's not logical, it's not normal for people to compete to make less, it's natural to want to make more money, not to compete with someone making less and it's very positive. So we need to stimulate people, and for quality people, we need to have enough money at our disposal. For example. in this case in the judiciary, but also in health care, in education, I said that when there was an ongoing strike, we must adequately pay our teachers. I'm so glad we agree on this point, and I hope that on that DORH plan, we will also strengthen capacity and personnel.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203083	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203084	Dear Mr. Kovac. My opinion is that the worst crime that happens in Croatia is the one that is legal, and in my court to ban people from working, to take away their means of living by my court is equal to crime because you took people what they have the right to, and the right to work is constitutional law. I would like to point out to you the problem of carriers currently banned from work, meaning people who have buses, whether they are in line, cross-city transport or simply dispersing tourists, they can no longer work today because Beros and Bozinović have banned them from doing so. And worst of all, the wars of leasing continue to come to them for payment, and they have no place to pay them back, they will run out of existence, no means to work, etc. And I'm curious as to how long do you think you're going to support this policy that Plenkovic is doing or are you just ready to finally say enough of this madness? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203085	Dear Representative Kovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203086	Thank you very much. Comrade Pernar, I think you see because of this pandemic that it had to be partially quarantined, so we did it in Croatia. We can be satisfied with the achievements so far when it comes to measures concerning the protection of our fellow citizens' health. I agree with you that the time has come to loosen these measures and leave now with relaxation. It is very important that regardless of the costs that will be incurred to make enough money available for job protection, so have many others in Europe and the world. It will be expensive and burdensome for our budget, but I am convinced that every kuna, every lime we have spent on protecting jobs in the long term and even in the medium term, will pay off, even when it comes to our carriers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203087	Thank you very much. The last individual debate will also be the respected representative of Davor Vlaovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203088	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State with an associate, co-workers and colleagues. Here's the state's attorney general's gonna probably get elected, and we want a lot of success in her work. However, we in the HSS and I will not personally vote for her choice for reasons which have already been said here many times, first of all because in an untransparent way the proposal came here to the assembly. It would have been more correct if all six candidates had presented themselves and their programme to the council board, if we had heard them and their programs here in the assembly and then we could decide on it. This is how when the proposal came from the prime minister's office and where most must vote, the suspicion remains of a transparent, independent work by the future chief state attorney. It is undeniable that she is a long member of this system of state's attorneys, that she has competences, that she has knowledge, that she knows where the weak points of that system are, and even as Mr. Kovac said she was self-critical enough to admit it. However, the Croatian people and we do not expect it to be just self-critical, but to be brave and determined to make moves to change things in the system because the fact is that the system does not work, that the big problem is that we have too many laws that change too often. And what is crucial is not to be conducted in Croatia towards all equally. We are not all equal in front of the Croatian judiciary and the judiciary, proof that it is dozens of large court proceedings that last and large fish still today do not have a judicial verdict. And the key question is whether the money is no kuna or very little has been returned to the state budget. And then it's normal that there's no money to hire in the state's attorney's office, to get paid, to equip courts that people have the elements for their work quality. Unfortunately, that's the way it is, and that's why we can't be for this choice. And it's important that the whole system works. One of the important wheels of the corruption perception index in Croatia, as the European Commission warns, is that citizens do not believe in the system, and they do not believe because the bodies that are part of this system have not become their own in the right way. So here are the latest examples and practice of the State Inspectorate, which was re-established with the aim of controlling the implementation of legal work in Croatia, we see that it already doesn't work well at the beginning, that Mr Mikulić is already in a series of affairs from hiring his wife without competition, from hiring at the student centre under suspicious circumstances, so here is now the merger of state administration and county where there have also been employment under strange circumstances, although the announcement that a state apparatus should be cut, the costs are reduced and you continue to be employed without competition. And then, of course, the system shoots at the seams and people don't believe it. One of the important points of public perception is the finding of a state audit that we often listen to here and I have repeatedly praised the work of the State Audit and their findings often indicate irregularities in the functioning of certain state bodies, public companies, local and regional self-government and we have never received a report of what the State Attorney's Office has done, who has been condemned by the basis of the findings of state audits. I expect that a new chief state attorney and this one will get caught up in business because everything is already prepared here, there's not much work to be done in research if the state's audit has already established the facts. And apparently there has been no will or interest so far. Is there always a cover-up? The state's attorney's office should also represent the state and protect the state's property, so I'm asking you how is it possible that a large number of apartments owned by a local state are used by individuals without paying rent or compensation? Will that change the state's attorney, since part of the system is already familiar with that? I'm afraid not. Also when it comes to the problem of state agricultural land, the state's attorney's office should also protect the interests of the Republic of Croatia. So I ask you, in the case of Agrokor and the transfer of concessions to Forten's group, did she play a real role in protecting the state? It is not because it was transferred to the concession on the basis of a settlement which had the power of the executive document without the Forten Group paying the State's obligations. She stayed in debt to the state. And none of our O.P.G.s can extend the lease or concession to not pay the final lease or concession. That's why I'm saying we're not all equal before the law. And the key question is also the stock reserve, there are still disputes about missing wheat in Đakov, there is no telling who's guilty, peasants aren't rewarded for their efforts, they're eaten by pigeons. In the ship, polluted water, I guess pigeons drank water and polluted water. I don't know what the state's attorney's done about it. And here's one big one fled to Medjugorje and now we're waiting for him to show up again in the Croatian judiciary, so public perception about corruption in Croatia is like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203089	Thank you very much. I would like to conclude a debate on this point, and we will vote on it when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203090	The motion for a decision on the appointment of Zlata Hrvoj Šipek to the main state attorney, is proposed by the Government, the debate is closed. In accordance with the previous opinion of the Committee on Justice, I am voting on the motion for a decision to appoint Zlata Hrvoj Šipek to the main state attorney of the Republic of Croatia, please vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that most votes, 80 for, 40 against, have been made a decision on the appointment of Zlata Hrvoj Šipek to the main state attorney of the Republic of Croatia. Congratulations to the new chief state attorney and I wish her a lot of success in her work.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203091	We are now moving to the next point, which is: - Final proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Law implementing EU Regulation No. 528/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council in connection with the making available on the market and use of biocidal products, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 839 The Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Articles 172, in conjunction with Article 17(2). 190. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. On the occasion of the debate on this agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply, and amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and by the Committee on Health and Social Policy. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear State Secretary at the Ministry of Health Tomislav Dulibic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203092	Thank you very much, Mr. President. This legislative proposal lays down the conditions for making available on the market and the use of biocidal products in the Republic of Croatia containing the active substance of art. 89.st. 2. Regulation (EU) No 515/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 December 2013 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 2111/2005 (OJ L 348, 30.12.2013, p. 1). 528/2012 and the obligation to keep an eyewitness in accordance with the specific regulations governing chemicals. Provisions relating to the powers of the competent sanitary inspection of the State Inspectorate in relation to the conduct of inspections shall also be complemented in respect of the establishment of restrictions established by the authorisation granted in the national authorisation procedure, as well as in the case of imports of biocidal products from third countries in respect of biocidal products which are not authorised, provisions on the collection of data on poisonings and occupational diseases involving biocidal products and infringements of the applicable law. In addition, provisions on the notification of a biocidal product, provisions on the list of biocidal products to be published on the website of the Ministry of Health in place of the National Journal, subject to the continued update of the list, erasure of certain products and the introduction of new products, and provisions on the collection of data on poisoning and occupational diseases involving biocidal products, shall be amended. The final proposal for the Law in relation to first reading is further regulated legally and nomotechnically in accordance with the proposal of the HS Legislative Committee and with the observations submitted by the Ministry of Administration and the State Inspectorate. Following all of this, the adoption of this legislative proposal is proposed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203093	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists Most, a respected representative, Slaven Dobrović, was to speak, is not there, is losing his right to speak, and will speak on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, the respected representative Ivan Kirin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203094	Vice President of the Parliament, Your Honor. Biocides are the means to destroy living things. In European legislation, the biocidal product is defined as a chemical substance or a micro-organism intended to destroy the deterrent, to make harmless or to control the impact on any harmful organism by chemical or biological means. When it comes to biocidal products, there is a difference between biocidal active substance and biocidal products. Biocidal active substances are mainly chemical compounds, but can also be microorganisms, for example. bacteria. Biocidal products contain one or more active substances and may contain other inactive common additives that ensure efficiency as well as the desired pH, viscosity, the color of the smell of the final product. Biocidal products are available on the market for the needs of professional and not professional consumers. Biocidals are used in municipal hygiene, the concept of 3D disinfection, disinfection, deratiation to maintain personal hygiene, to protect materials, for example The walls of the fungi and other intruders, seaweed ships, wood from different pests. Biocidals are used mostly in medicine, agriculture, forestry industry. Many biocides are synthetic, but there are also those that are classified as natural biocides derived from e.g. bacteria and plants. With us, this area is regulated by the European Regulation on Biocidal Products. The law implementing Regulation 528/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council as regards the making available on the market and the use of biocidal products shall be laid down by the Ministry of Health as competent authority and as competent authorities for the implementation of the Law implementing Regulation 528. The inspection of the implementation of Regulation 528 and of the law shall be carried out by a sanitary inspection of the State Inspectorate in accordance with the provisions of which the work and powers of the sanitary inspection and the control of chemicals are regulated. Regulation (EU) No 515/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 December 2013 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 2111/2005 (OJ L 348, 30.12.2013, p. 1). 89.st. 2. Regulation (EU) No 515/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 December 2013 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 2111/2005 (OJ L 348, 30.12.2013, p. 1). 528 It is prescribed that the EU Member State may apply its current system or practice to make a specific biocidal product available on the market no later than two years after the date of approval of the last active substance to be approved in that biocidal product. How Regulation 528 applies to biocidal products with evaluated approved substances for biocidal products containing active substances which are still subject to the evaluation process of the Regulation, allows for the authorisation, placing biocidal products on the market in accordance with national rules. In accordance with its national rules, EU Member States may authorise that only biocidal products containing existing active substances that have been evaluated or evaluated under the EU Commission Regulation are placed on the market on its territory. In relation to the applicable law, the legislative proposal prescribes the conditions for making available on the market and the use of biocidal products in the Republic of Croatia containing the active substance referred to in Article 2. 89.st. 2. EU regulations. Provisions on the notification of a biocidal product are amended and a newspaper shall be introduced to indicate the number of authorisations from the register of biocidal products of the EU as well as to indicate the classification of approval on the product’s own notification. Legal and natural persons carrying out the activities of the production of imports or the introduction of biocidal products shall be subject to the obligation to keep an eye on them in accordance with specific regulations which also have regulated chemicals. In accordance with its national rules, EU Member States may authorise that only biocidal products containing existing active substances that have been evaluated or evaluated under the Commission Regulation are placed on the market on its territory. In the event of a decision on approval of an active substance, the EU Member State may continue to apply its system or practice to make biocidal products available on the market by no later than 12 months after the date of the decision not to approve the active substance, as specified. The legislative proposal further amends the provisions on the notification of biocidal products and introduces a newspaper to indicate the number of authorisations from the register of biocidal products of the EU as well as the indication as well as the indication of the classification of the authorisation mark on the very notification of the product for biocidal products approved in the national authorisation procedure. Furthermore, the provisions on the list of biocidal products to be published on the health ministry's website instead of the National Journal, with the obligation to constantly update the list, delete certain products and introduce new products are amended. In order to clarify the applicable obligations of legal and natural persons carrying out the activities of the production, import or introduction of biocidal products, the legislative proposal provides for the obligation to keep an eye on the specific rules governing chemicals. The legislative proposal also complements the provisions on the collection of data on poisoning, on professional diseases involving biocidal products in such a way as to prescribe that the Centre for the Control of Toxicity of the Institute for Medical Research and Medicine of Work is sending data on possible poisoning to the HZJZ, and that the HZJZ complements these data, together with data on professional diseases involving biocidal products to the Ministry of Health and, of course, for the purpose of submitting reports to the European Commission on the implementation of the EU Regulation. The implementation of this law does not require the provision of additional financial resources in the state budget. The HZD will support this law, which is an obligation in view of EU membership. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203095	Thank you very much. The next club of representatives was supposed to be Croatian sovereigns and independent representatives of Željko Glasnović and Zlatko Hasanbegovic, and spoke by Croatian representative Zekanovic, he is not, he is losing his right to speak, so the next Club of Representatives will be the SDP on behalf of which the respected representative Zeljko Jovanovic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203096	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP representative club supported this legislative proposal in the first reading, and since there have been no changes in the meantime, I can only say briefly that we support a legislative proposal that prescribes the conditions for making available on the market the use of biocidal products in the Republic of Croatia. What I would just point out from the whole of this text is the part relating to the jurisdiction of the sanitary inspection, the part that concerns that it will now be published instead of in the National Journal on the website of the Ministry of Health that it will be up to date and that it will be useful. It is also important to highlight the part concerning the collection of data on poisonings and professional diseases involving biocidal products, we believe that this is important that it is introduced into this legislative proposal. Otherwise, my colleague asked me what biocidal products are, are they pesticides, therefore, biocidal products for destroying living things and cover all pesticides other than plant protection. So, both biocidal products and plant protection products are pesticides, we use them in disinfection, deratiation and disinfection, to maintain personal hygiene, to protect materials, ships, for example, but also to destroy harmful fish and birds. In Croatia, there are 4 groups of biocidal products that are disinfectants, protective agents, protection against intruders and other biocidal products, and there are 22 types of these products. Here I won't list you can find on HZZ's network pages. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203097	Thank you very much. We move to an individual debate, the first should be the respected representative of Miro Bulj, he is not there, he is losing his right to debate, so he will speak to the next respected representative Mladen Karlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203098	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, here's almost everything said. In front of us, the Act amending and supplementing the Law implementing the EU Regulation, which was adopted on the basis of the European Parliament and the Council on the making available of the market and the Regulation on biocidal products. In order to be well understood, in fact, this whole proposal is necessarily exactly what is already said, known as biocidal products, which are by definition substances and mixtures made in the form in which they are supplied to the user who consists, contains or produces one or more active substances whose purpose is to destroy, deter and make harmless, prevent or control any harmful organism in any way other than physical and mechanical activity. And in that group, here, as a colleague previously said, we have 22 kinds of these products that are disinfectants, insecticides, pesticides, fungicides, wood protection products and various other things that serve means in communal hygiene, which serve disinfection, disinfection, deratiation, maintenance of personal hygiene, the protection of materials, the protection of walls, the houses of fungi and other pests, ships of locusts, of algae, wood from different pests and for the destruction of harmful birds of fish. The most commonly used in medicine, agriculture, forestry and industry and of course disinfection in swimming pools as a means. They may be, these substances may be synthetic products, but there are also those that naturally report and classify as natural biocides derived from plant bacteria. So biocidals can be pesticides and antimicrobials. The law implementing this Regulation No 528/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council has laid down that the Ministry of Health as a body responsible for the implementation of this Regulation and making available to the market and use of these biocidal products, and the inspection of the implementation of the Regulation is carried out by a sanitary inspection of the State Inspector in accordance with the rules governing both the part and the powers of the sanitary inspection and the control of chemicals. This Regulation of the prescribed Member State may continue its current practice for the placing of a specific biocidal product on the market no later than 2 years after the approval of the last active substance on that product and thus the State may be authorised to place exclusively products which comply with the 2007 European Community Regulation. This proposal also complements the provisions on the collection of data on poisonings and diseases involving biocidal products and provides for a centre for the control of the poisoning of the Institute of Medical Research to send prepared data to HZZZ, which is supplied to the Ministry of Health of the Republic of Croatia. Here, we as a member of the HZD will support this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203099	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Ivan Celic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203100	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, that Regulation 528/2012 therefore concerns the placing on the market and use of biocidal products, is the competent authority of the Ministry of Health. Biocidal products are necessary for the control of organisms that are harmful to human or animal health and for the control of organisms that harm natural or produced materials. However, because of their intrinsic properties and associated uses, they can pose a risk to humans, animals and the environment. Compared to the previous Biocidal Products Directive, the legal definitions, technical compliance, the competence of the European Chemicals Agency based in Helsinki, the new types of biocidal products, the general principles for evaluation, the different types of approval, and what is particularly important is the electronic application R4BP3. The purpose of this Regulation is to improve the free movement of biocidal products in the Union while ensuring a high level of protection of human health and animal health and the environment. Particular attention should be paid to the protection of vulnerable groups involving children and pregnant women. The Regulation is based on the precautionary principle in order to ensure that production and placing on the market of active substances and biocidal products have no adverse effects on human or animal health or unacceptable environmental effects. From 1 September 2015, the manufacturer of the active substance must be listed in order to be on the EU market. If the active substance is not registered for a specific purpose and is not listed on the manufacturer's list, it cannot be marketed. In order to achieve a high degree of protection of human and animal and environmental health, the active substance with the highest degree of harmfulness should not be authorised for use in biocidal products except in specific cases where the authorisation is considered justified due to the negligible risk of exposure to that substance for the protection of human health, animal health or the environment or for disproportionate negative effects on society in the event of non-approval. Since 1 September 2015, all companies which place biocidal products on the market in the Republic of Croatia shall provide evidence confirming that the supplier of the active substance contained in the biocidal product is included in the list managed by the European Chemicals Agency and the evidence is a written certificate. Users of biocidal products should check that they are approved. Biocidal products shall only be used for the purpose for which they are registered. So, there have already been several speeches about these basic groups of biocidal products and I think that today in the time of the Coronal Virus epidemic these biocidal products are very important, very current and very important that there are declarations because in this time some have tried to go with disinfectants without proper certificates and therefore it is very important to respect this regulation when we speak and disinfectants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203101	Thank you very much. The next individual debate was supposed to be a respected representative of Gordan Maras, missing him, losing his right to debate. I will conclude the debate on the wheel, and we will vote on it when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203102	Final Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law implementing the EU Regulation No. 528/2012 EU Parliament and Council on the making available on the market and use of biocidal products, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 839., the applicant is the Government, and the debate is concluded and I am voting on the final proposal of that law. Please, let's vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that most votes, 114 for and 3 abstentions have been passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203103	We are now moving to the next point, which is: - Final proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Law implementing EU Regulation No. 528/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council in connection with the making available on the market and use of biocidal products, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 839 The Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Articles 172, in conjunction with Article 17(2). 190. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. On the occasion of the debate on this agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply, and amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and by the Committee on Health and Social Policy. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear State Secretary at the Ministry of Health Tomislav Dulibic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203104	Thank you very much, Mr. President. This legislative proposal lays down the conditions for making available on the market and the use of biocidal products in the Republic of Croatia containing the active substance of art. 89.st. 2. Regulation (EU) No 515/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 December 2013 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 2111/2005 (OJ L 348, 30.12.2013, p. 1). 528/2012 and the obligation to keep an eyewitness in accordance with the specific regulations governing chemicals. Provisions relating to the powers of the competent sanitary inspection of the State Inspectorate in relation to the conduct of inspections shall also be complemented in respect of the establishment of restrictions established by the authorisation granted in the national authorisation procedure, as well as in the case of imports of biocidal products from third countries in respect of biocidal products which are not authorised, provisions on the collection of data on poisonings and occupational diseases involving biocidal products and infringements of the applicable law. In addition, provisions on the notification of a biocidal product, provisions on the list of biocidal products to be published on the website of the Ministry of Health in place of the National Journal, subject to the continued update of the list, erasure of certain products and the introduction of new products, and provisions on the collection of data on poisoning and occupational diseases involving biocidal products, shall be amended. The final proposal for the Law in relation to first reading is further regulated legally and nomotechnically in accordance with the proposal of the HS Legislative Committee and with the observations submitted by the Ministry of Administration and the State Inspectorate. Following all of this, the adoption of this legislative proposal is proposed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203105	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists Most, a respected representative, Slaven Dobrović, was to speak, is not there, is losing his right to speak, and will speak on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, the respected representative Ivan Kirin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203106	Vice President of the Parliament, Your Honor. Biocides are the means to destroy living things. In European legislation, the biocidal product is defined as a chemical substance or a micro-organism intended to destroy the deterrent, to make harmless or to control the impact on any harmful organism by chemical or biological means. When it comes to biocidal products, there is a difference between biocidal active substance and biocidal products. Biocidal active substances are mainly chemical compounds, but can also be microorganisms, for example. bacteria. Biocidal products contain one or more active substances and may contain other inactive common additives that ensure efficiency as well as the desired pH, viscosity, the color of the smell of the final product. Biocidal products are available on the market for the needs of professional and not professional consumers. Biocidals are used in municipal hygiene, the concept of 3D disinfection, disinfection, deratiation to maintain personal hygiene, to protect materials, for example The walls of the fungi and other intruders, seaweed ships, wood from different pests. Biocidals are used mostly in medicine, agriculture, forestry industry. Many biocides are synthetic, but there are also those that are classified as natural biocides derived from e.g. bacteria and plants. With us, this area is regulated by the European Regulation on Biocidal Products. The law implementing Regulation 528/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council as regards the making available on the market and the use of biocidal products shall be laid down by the Ministry of Health as competent authority and as competent authorities for the implementation of the Law implementing Regulation 528. The inspection of the implementation of Regulation 528 and of the law shall be carried out by a sanitary inspection of the State Inspectorate in accordance with the provisions of which the work and powers of the sanitary inspection and the control of chemicals are regulated. Regulation (EU) No 515/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 December 2013 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 2111/2005 (OJ L 348, 30.12.2013, p. 1). 89.st. 2. Regulation (EU) No 515/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 December 2013 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 2111/2005 (OJ L 348, 30.12.2013, p. 1). 528 It is prescribed that the EU Member State may apply its current system or practice to make a specific biocidal product available on the market no later than two years after the date of approval of the last active substance to be approved in that biocidal product. How Regulation 528 applies to biocidal products with evaluated approved substances for biocidal products containing active substances which are still subject to the evaluation process of the Regulation, allows for the authorisation, placing biocidal products on the market in accordance with national rules. In accordance with its national rules, EU Member States may authorise that only biocidal products containing existing active substances that have been evaluated or evaluated under the EU Commission Regulation are placed on the market on its territory. In relation to the applicable law, the legislative proposal prescribes the conditions for making available on the market and the use of biocidal products in the Republic of Croatia containing the active substance referred to in Article 2. 89.st. 2. EU regulations. Provisions on the notification of a biocidal product are amended and a newspaper shall be introduced to indicate the number of authorisations from the register of biocidal products of the EU as well as to indicate the classification of approval on the product’s own notification. Legal and natural persons carrying out the activities of the production of imports or the introduction of biocidal products shall be subject to the obligation to keep an eye on them in accordance with specific regulations which also have regulated chemicals. In accordance with its national rules, EU Member States may authorise that only biocidal products containing existing active substances that have been evaluated or evaluated under the Commission Regulation are placed on the market on its territory. In the event of a decision on approval of an active substance, the EU Member State may continue to apply its system or practice to make biocidal products available on the market by no later than 12 months after the date of the decision not to approve the active substance, as specified. The legislative proposal further amends the provisions on the notification of biocidal products and introduces a newspaper to indicate the number of authorisations from the register of biocidal products of the EU as well as the indication as well as the indication of the classification of the authorisation mark on the very notification of the product for biocidal products approved in the national authorisation procedure. Furthermore, the provisions on the list of biocidal products to be published on the health ministry's website instead of the National Journal, with the obligation to constantly update the list, delete certain products and introduce new products are amended. In order to clarify the applicable obligations of legal and natural persons carrying out the activities of the production, import or introduction of biocidal products, the legislative proposal provides for the obligation to keep an eye on the specific rules governing chemicals. The legislative proposal also complements the provisions on the collection of data on poisoning, on professional diseases involving biocidal products in such a way as to prescribe that the Centre for the Control of Toxicity of the Institute for Medical Research and Medicine of Work is sending data on possible poisoning to the HZJZ, and that the HZJZ complements these data, together with data on professional diseases involving biocidal products to the Ministry of Health and, of course, for the purpose of submitting reports to the European Commission on the implementation of the EU Regulation. The implementation of this law does not require the provision of additional financial resources in the state budget. The HZD will support this law, which is an obligation in view of EU membership. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203107	Thank you very much. The next club of representatives was supposed to be Croatian sovereigns and independent representatives of Željko Glasnović and Zlatko Hasanbegovic, and spoke by Croatian representative Zekanovic, he is not, he is losing his right to speak, so the next Club of Representatives will be the SDP on behalf of which the respected representative Zeljko Jovanovic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203108	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP representative club supported this legislative proposal in the first reading, and since there have been no changes in the meantime, I can only say briefly that we support a legislative proposal that prescribes the conditions for making available on the market the use of biocidal products in the Republic of Croatia. What I would just point out from the whole of this text is the part relating to the jurisdiction of the sanitary inspection, the part that concerns that it will now be published instead of in the National Journal on the website of the Ministry of Health that it will be up to date and that it will be useful. It is also important to highlight the part concerning the collection of data on poisonings and professional diseases involving biocidal products, we believe that this is important that it is introduced into this legislative proposal. Otherwise, my colleague asked me what biocidal products are, are they pesticides, therefore, biocidal products for destroying living things and cover all pesticides other than plant protection. So, both biocidal products and plant protection products are pesticides, we use them in disinfection, deratiation and disinfection, to maintain personal hygiene, to protect materials, ships, for example, but also to destroy harmful fish and birds. In Croatia, there are 4 groups of biocidal products that are disinfectants, protective agents, protection against intruders and other biocidal products, and there are 22 types of these products. Here I won't list you can find on HZZ's network pages. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203109	Thank you very much. We move to an individual debate, the first should be the respected representative of Miro Bulj, he is not there, he is losing his right to debate, so he will speak to the next respected representative Mladen Karlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203110	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, here's almost everything said. In front of us, the Act amending and supplementing the Law implementing the EU Regulation, which was adopted on the basis of the European Parliament and the Council on the making available of the market and the Regulation on biocidal products. In order to be well understood, in fact, this whole proposal is necessarily exactly what is already said, known as biocidal products, which are by definition substances and mixtures made in the form in which they are supplied to the user who consists, contains or produces one or more active substances whose purpose is to destroy, deter and make harmless, prevent or control any harmful organism in any way other than physical and mechanical activity. And in that group, here, as a colleague previously said, we have 22 kinds of these products that are disinfectants, insecticides, pesticides, fungicides, wood protection products and various other things that serve means in communal hygiene, which serve disinfection, disinfection, deratiation, maintenance of personal hygiene, the protection of materials, the protection of walls, the houses of fungi and other pests, ships of locusts, of algae, wood from different pests and for the destruction of harmful birds of fish. The most commonly used in medicine, agriculture, forestry and industry and of course disinfection in swimming pools as a means. They may be, these substances may be synthetic products, but there are also those that naturally report and classify as natural biocides derived from plant bacteria. So biocidals can be pesticides and antimicrobials. The law implementing this Regulation No 528/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council has laid down that the Ministry of Health as a body responsible for the implementation of this Regulation and making available to the market and use of these biocidal products, and the inspection of the implementation of the Regulation is carried out by a sanitary inspection of the State Inspector in accordance with the rules governing both the part and the powers of the sanitary inspection and the control of chemicals. This Regulation of the prescribed Member State may continue its current practice for the placing of a specific biocidal product on the market no later than 2 years after the approval of the last active substance on that product and thus the State may be authorised to place exclusively products which comply with the 2007 European Community Regulation. This proposal also complements the provisions on the collection of data on poisonings and diseases involving biocidal products and provides for a centre for the control of the poisoning of the Institute of Medical Research to send prepared data to HZZZ, which is supplied to the Ministry of Health of the Republic of Croatia. Here, we as a member of the HZD will support this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203111	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Ivan Celic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203112	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, that Regulation 528/2012 therefore concerns the placing on the market and use of biocidal products, is the competent authority of the Ministry of Health. Biocidal products are necessary for the control of organisms that are harmful to human or animal health and for the control of organisms that harm natural or produced materials. However, because of their intrinsic properties and associated uses, they can pose a risk to humans, animals and the environment. Compared to the previous Biocidal Products Directive, the legal definitions, technical compliance, the competence of the European Chemicals Agency based in Helsinki, the new types of biocidal products, the general principles for evaluation, the different types of approval, and what is particularly important is the electronic application R4BP3. The purpose of this Regulation is to improve the free movement of biocidal products in the Union while ensuring a high level of protection of human health and animal health and the environment. Particular attention should be paid to the protection of vulnerable groups involving children and pregnant women. The Regulation is based on the precautionary principle in order to ensure that production and placing on the market of active substances and biocidal products have no adverse effects on human or animal health or unacceptable environmental effects. From 1 September 2015, the manufacturer of the active substance must be listed in order to be on the EU market. If the active substance is not registered for a specific purpose and is not listed on the manufacturer's list, it cannot be marketed. In order to achieve a high degree of protection of human and animal and environmental health, the active substance with the highest degree of harmfulness should not be authorised for use in biocidal products except in specific cases where the authorisation is considered justified due to the negligible risk of exposure to that substance for the protection of human health, animal health or the environment or for disproportionate negative effects on society in the event of non-approval. Since 1 September 2015, all companies which place biocidal products on the market in the Republic of Croatia shall provide evidence confirming that the supplier of the active substance contained in the biocidal product is included in the list managed by the European Chemicals Agency and the evidence is a written certificate. Users of biocidal products should check that they are approved. Biocidal products shall only be used for the purpose for which they are registered. So, there have already been several speeches about these basic groups of biocidal products and I think that today in the time of the Coronal Virus epidemic these biocidal products are very important, very current and very important that there are declarations because in this time some have tried to go with disinfectants without proper certificates and therefore it is very important to respect this regulation when we speak and disinfectants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203113	Thank you very much. The next individual debate was supposed to be a respected representative of Gordan Maras, missing him, losing his right to debate. I will conclude the debate on the wheel, and we will vote on it when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203114	Final Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law implementing the EU Regulation No. 528/2012 EU Parliament and Council on the making available on the market and use of biocidal products, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 839., the applicant is the Government, and the debate is concluded and I am voting on the final proposal of that law. Please, let's vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that most votes, 114 for and 3 abstentions have been passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203115	We move to the next point, which is: - Final proposal of the Law on Amendment and Completion of the Law on Voluntary Health Insurance, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 643 The applicant is a representative of Silvano Hrelja on the basis of Article. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia 172 The Rules of Procedure of HS. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent manner. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings, and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with Article. 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Labour, the pension system and the social partnership and the Committee on Health. The government delivered an opinion. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Honorable representative of Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203116	Dear Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. So, first of all, I should like to express my regret about the sterileness of the Croatian Parliament because I haven't had the opportunity, although this bill has been in the parliamentary procedure since May 2019, I haven't had the opportunity to present this bill on the Committee on Legislatives and on the home Committee on Health, Social Care and Demographic Policy. Therefore, it is a tragedy of HS which at a time of crisis does not maintain its parliamentary working bodies because there are conditions, it is also proved by Mr Maras to whom I thank for having put this topic under discussion on behalf of the Committee because committees can be maintained. We have large halls, boards have 13 members, with external 15, 16, 17 we have enough space to maintain this. Unfortunately, this law was not fortunate to be presented by the promoter. Therefore, on the basis of what the Legislative Committee said, it did not listen to the arguments but clearly did not listen to the applicant and made its decision. The introduction of this bill should be made a little wider. Census that existed until last week was set up in 2004, not in 2008 by the secretary of state as it states in the light of your law but in 2004 to insist on the first time of the HSU parliamentary party. The census at that time was compared to 1.750,00 kuna average pension census per family member was 190,00 kuna smaller, but the male census was 235.00 kuna higher than the average pension. Today, the new censorships set up are 435.00 kunas less than the average pension for a family member and 500,00 lower for a single man. So, we're talking about we haven't been following up on a pension increase, but we've been letting all these years a number of citizens drown in... poverty and there's a problem with paying Joe as a guarantee of access to health care. It's a failure of all governments to understand each other, this is just a point on and at the end, this is just a point on the i. And I think there's been a big mistake or a big mistake in not respecting our bill. Our bill came after the stabilisation of the JO, some will say you didn't do it in 2013. In 2013, until then, we had social criteria for the social groups for paying the DHA. Retired people, regardless of their social status, paid 50,00 kuna, their non-working wives had no original pension paid 80,00 and the workers paid 130,00 kuna. According to EU criteria, such criteria do not exist for the DHA, and we had to set a single price for a single service and in 2013 in agreement with the honorable people of the Croatian Union and the Croatian Retired Union Union agreed that this was the only possible solution and went to a unique price policy of 70.00 kuna, and this is the only possibility that older than 60 years at that price can have a DZO. It took some time for the system to stabilize, and later I'll say why it didn't stabilize so quickly. So, in 2016, then, Minister Nakic and some of the MoST vice-presidents insisted on increasing the DZO to 89.00 kuna. At that time, HSU collected more than 100,000 signatures against the collection of DZO, today's indicators of financing the additional health insurance of this public insurance company speak and all the time say that we were right. The public insurance company is doing a good job, but you'll see in further discussion why, because something is happening that is inadmissible. Something that's inadmissible. And it came in 2018, and so did Mr. Kujundzic, on several occasions, announced the purchase of a supplementary insurance policy. Every time he announced a policy, the addition of an additional health insurance policy at the time went with an aggressive campaign for healthy and young people at 40 kuna. So, the decomposition of this big, massive insurance company that works on two key categories. One category is that they are never all at the same time sick, on, acting on the principle of solidarity among generations and acting on the principle of large numbers, large numbers and therefore functioning. So, in addition to these, such announcements that HSU has been fighting all along, we came to the famous September 2018 when, due to a slight increase in pensions, a large number of pensioners skipped these censorships and ran out of additional health insurance. So instead of getting 20 kunas more pension, and these are very low pensions, they're pensions below 2,000 kuna and below 2,500 kuna, so that's what happened, and that's when we started the hack to increase the censorship. I personally worked on Hiku from this pay phone since September 2018, so until May when I gave the procedure of this law and after more than 15 times I said that there was a need to increase the censorship and there were promises from the former minister, but the current minister in the second ministry probably won the award in the second ministry because he did not solve this, Minister Pavic, was a promise to resolve it. He can't handle it himself. This cannot be resolved without the Minister of Finance, without the Minister of Health and, of course, the Ministry of Labour because of the status of pensioners has been called. But nothing here, nothing concrete has happened here. It happened when, in October of last year, the government, beware that from May to October, it was necessary to adopt an opinion on this law, when it adopted the opinion that our bill was rejected, that the funds in the budget were not secured and that they would continue to protect our citizens at the level of social security, at the level of probably 800 kuna. I don't understand. I don't understand what the Ministry was going to say back then. At that time, the assistant minister was today, the assistant minister. So we came to this situation that they turned us down. Then we decided to take concrete action. We decided to collect support signatures for our bill. And my dear gentlemen, this bill of law, unlike what we discussed last week, has 50,753 signatures to support this law, this bill. And from the pensioners, from the citizens of the middle, younger age, young, old, all. Let's show me some of the bill that had this kind of support. The collection of signatures among citizens in November last year, within a month, from the oldest political activists, pensioners in Croatia in the winter, Minister Kujundzic declared the population, a legitimate political action to support one proposal of the law to increase censorship, from 1.516 to 1.830 for a family member and from 1,939 to 2,340 kuna for a person living alone. He dared call it populism. Here he sat when we talked you remember his, his recall. In the end, he was called off but not for that reason, and should have been called off because of such things, because a legitimate political action, the political action of the party that is in this home, in this home that nominates all ministers, he dared to call himself pulsism. And don't lie to the devil, we said if those 50,000 signatures don't work out enough we'll go to phase three. The moment this law is discussed will be, or every week, five buses of pensioners will come here precisely to those who have this problem, but I can't, I can't because of Covida-19, believe me, there's no Covida-19 to have them all these weeks here and to talk about their problems. How to pay an additional policy, how to pay a TV subscription with 1,700 kuna, the average pension for 250 lowest pensions is 1,750 kuna. Can you imagine that? And at that moment, two ladies, representatives of the Mother of Retired, otherwise a member of the National Council, otherwise persons nominated by the rulings with a Damish offer in various administrative councils and parliamentary committees, are sufficient to increase the censorship to 2,000 kuna and to 1665 kuna respectively, by 47 and 61 kuna respectively. And Prime Minister Plenkovic generously from the cabinet meeting deals with HSU representatives and says, gentlemen, I will talk and negotiate with those who want culturally with coffee to agree with me on 61 kuna. I won't talk to those who threaten protests, and just before, they were protesting you in front of his window. But don't kid yourself. They didn't arrange that censorship, they agreed on their mentor. Their mentor, Mr. Bandic arranged, with the finance minister, please give them something to calm both the pensioners and the representatives of the pensioners. That's how the deal came to pass. And now this deal last week is being shown as a generous act, the virtue of the government, an increase in censorship of 47 and 61 kuna. Can you imagine that? And you think the pensioners don't know elementary math and they'll believe that the benefits of that increase will get you 200 thousand people? They know they won't. So these associations I mentioned themselves were saying that this would apply to a maximum of 10 to 12 thousand people. Just those, the government says it's going to cost 150 million kuna. By the count, 12 times, 12 thousand times 840 kuna is 13 million a year and 100 of which 150 million kuna? But I know, later in the debate, I'll tell you why 150 million is reserved. But, to do, to show something as your obligation, to show as a benevolence, is very rude,.../incomprehensible/... ultimately punishable because it is a demeaning of the most needed in Croatian society. Those who are truly poor, those who do not see themselves from Mark's square and those who hide themselves in statistically different indicators, but they exist and we have a commitment, gentlemen of MPs and MPs, according to a document adopted by this High Croatian House, the document is called the Anti-poverty Strategy 2014-2020, where it literally says that in the fight against poverty there is a great importance of increasing the price for additional health insurance in order to ensure that healthcare is available and for those who cannot afford it from their own incomes. Gentlemen, come on, let's look into each other's eyes. Is 47 kuna increasing individual censorship, for a family member or 61 kuna for a person living alone, a contribution to the implementation of the Strategy against Poverty, which the notes do not have a recording of the situation when it was brought in 2014 or when it was restored in 2017 or has a picture, does not represent the goal of where we should come from. What is the strategy without action plans, without the path we are going and towards what goal we are going. That's what it says, Mr. Secretary of State in that strategy. I command you, look. And we're one million percent right about what we're proposing, and it's your right to refuse it, but you're taking political responsibility for it. It is your right to refuse, and because of that, I am angry at those who lie, I am angry at those who lie because it is not like the Croatian Parliament, that someone is lying that they will benefit 200 thousand people, that someone is lying that there was no other way out, so this offer, this crumb from the table, I am angry that someone is lying in the bill, for the first time since 18 years since I've been here. Such a deception to the public, that something that costs $13 million a year costs 150. That something that's going to involve 12,000 people, that's going to apply to 200 thousand people. It can't even go to elementary school. This law is correct, clean, has a mechanism for harmonising every year, fair, because it exactly increases the censorship by 40%, exactly as much as on today and has grown pensions from 2004 to today, exactly 50% of the salary growth from 2004 to today. Which parameters do you want more? Is that fair, is that an exaggeration? Is that an exaggeration? Is that what our citizens deserve? They'll say there's no money, no shit. There's another side of the medal. We'll talk about it after one of the club debates and we'll talk about it, don't think the situation is bright, no, it's dark, it's blurry. It is a cloudy situation behind supplemental health insurance and I congratulate our 1,670,000 citizens, I congratulate them from this place that they meet their obligation, obligation and pay 70 kuna a month because they, not the state, are they, and not the state, deserve that the supplementary health insurance system works. That because of their endurance and regular payment, even under conditions where there are no reviews, specialist, COVID-19, when there is no hospital stay so you can't spend on participation, so there is no cost of additional health insurance as usual and at these times they have an administrative ban on wages or pensions and they pay for it. Thanks to them, they are heroes of surviving additional health insurance in Croatia from 2004 to today, not the Government of the Republic of Croatia, according to this institute all the time the government had and all the governments had a maternal relationship and a lot of it. 50,000 signatures are not only for an increase in the censorship, but also for the independence of a public insurance company, but I'll do it later. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203117	Thank you very much. We have several replicas, the first respected representative of the coat of arms. No, no, no, sit down, so, uh, here you go, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203118	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State, what I'm about to ask you may not be directly related to your debate, but it is about the government's explanation why this law should not be accepted and the reasoning of the law we passed last week. Please, colleagues of the Hrelja, explain to me, in this explanation of not accepting the law, it says it will cost 100 million kuna a year and we cannot accept it for this reason. There's a much bigger increase in censorship here than in the proposal we adopted on Friday, and it says that these 50 kunas a year or what you said 12,000 people times 850 kunas per year will cost 160 million kuna. I'm not a mathematician, but elementary school math tells me you can't make a bigger increase. cost less than less. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203119	Honorable representative of the Hrelja, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203120	Comrade Grbin, you're right, they're neither derivatives nor integrated, it's basic mathematics and you've seen well that this increase in censorship if this law says that it's going to cost 100 or 50 last year, for this another 100 million kuna, it means 150 million kuna at year level for the coverage of 180,000 insurance companies or citizens covered by the state, then there's nothing that can apply to 12,000 to 15,000 citizens to cost that money. This is so clear because this increase from 47 to 61 kuna simply cannot achieve a number of 200,000 but can be achieved from 10 to 12,000, and these are the forecasts of all experts.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203121	The next is a replica of the esteemed representative of Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203122	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. When you mention the government law adopted here in the Croatian Parliament and the miserable increase in censorship, you are right. It's really incomprehensible that 3 ministries, watch out for 3 ministries and can't calculate and then come and it's really contract law. How, let's raise this for a single man to 2,000 is round, nice sounds, and that's 3.1%, so we'll raise that lower censorship by, per family member by 3.1%, so how much is that going to cost, so let's make it 150,000 kuna, for how many people, and then 200,000. All these figures sound handsome, but they don't match the truth and it's a shame that this assembly, that the government has turned the parliament into a pre-election body in which he, in which he will make false promises. And indeed, a colleague of the Grbin is right, simple mathematics shows that what is foreseen by the HSU proposal is enough money to raise for this amount which is a minimum increase in order to achieve the poverty threshold, to raise the censorship, not for such a miserable increase.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203123	Thank you. The Honorable representative of the Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203124	Well, look, my colleague, Sagar, this whole thing in Croatian society can look worse. When, on the orders of a coalition partner of the ruling party in Croatia, civil society associations are engaged with dumped prices and enter the process against parliamentary procedure, and parliamentary procedures are directed by law in the procedure, public debate, if you want expensive signatures, if you want to go to a referendum, it is political activation for me, it is political activation for me. The civil society that this government has given the government the opportunity to be a government adviser through the national council must propose to the government and the government cannot be called upon. You can't be a government counselor and this Protestant in front of the government window at the same time. I mean, they're mixed pots of people, it doesn't work like that, it doesn't go in the right direction.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203125	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Cellic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203126	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'd just like to correct my colleague Hrelja at the beginning, so we've held, I'm the vice president of the Health Committee, and there's been a session that fits these conditions where two members were in favour of this proposal and six against. And what you're saying about political activity, I'll remind you that the year your right hand was the right hand of Milan Bandic, the lady you're talking about, and then it didn't bother you because you had common interests. It has very successfully led to the retirement of the City Office for Social Protection and Persons with Disabilities, so one of Milan Bandić's closest associates, at the same time one of the closest associates of Silvana Hrelje, then it was not a problem, and now that this situation is related to last week's amendment to the Law on Voluntary Health Insurance, is now suddenly a problem. It's called consistency.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203127	The Honorable representative of the Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203128	It's called consistency, respect for every man who doesn't interfere in the process. You know, she was and a parliamentary representative who could've run all this in front of HSU, and she has no right to talk about the missed one right now. Therefore, while everyone does their job either at Milan Bandic as an employer or as a member of the HSU presidency, it is all right, but someone starts doing underground games with the sale of HSU representatives to HDZ via Milan Bandic then we are no longer friends, then I become much more consistent than you think. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203129	Now we're going to the clubs, so the first one will speak on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, the Honorable Representative Miro Bulj, and I'm opening a debate of course on the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203130	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, the Honorable Representative of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, we had a debate last week. We voted on a law that's obvious as the promoter said was smudged like a coward's egg. Apparently, HSU has launched in the procedure a law that holds some poverty thresholds in line with the possible and current situation in the Republic of Croatia where the poverty threshold is determined somewhere, if we're going to say this amount that you put in place means 2,340 kuna for an individual and 1,830 kuna is for those who have families of family members. I believe that regardless of what policy options this came from, I consider any mistake that currently in the Republic of Croatia is embarrassing if someone is below the poverty threshold, i.e. that there is no health insurance is health insurance in one social security system, this constitution requires the right to health services and protection of all in the Republic of Croatia. And I think that a democratic society such as Croatia's modern Croatia must not be allowed to and should not be questioned at all by any vile games, no matter where a person was a party if he played dirty and played outside the procedure. If you're playing for some kind of winning points at the expense of our citizens to show and raise 15, 20 kunas and even if it's a delusion that it's not 150,000 people but 13,000 people and if it's not 150 million kunas but 13 million kunas, I'm talking indicatively, then it's below each level. It's not a question of the worldview, it's not even a question of humanity, it's a hoax of the poorest. I don't have to agree with my colleague Hrelja in anything, and in this I'll agree that there is no right neither Beroš nor Plenkovic nor Miro Bulj and I don't know... colleague, Cellic colleague, and you distinguished secretaries cheat on the people and trick on them cowardly eggs, there's no one. Who's right? At the moment they say there will be no money, when we have 20 counties that don't know the flow boiler full of stones, there remains money for them to entangle, of course also for party political arrests which will of course serve them now in election processes. I think the deception of the people and the poorest is one great sin, no matter how much we swear on the Bible, on the Koran, on the manifesto, I don't know what he's sworn on, on humanity, on humanity, on humanity, I think it's a fraud. I think this law is correct, here's my colleague, Cilic, who's going to be given the line, if there was a colleague before in HSU or Bandic or the Most or out of Most, or at the turkey where it is, I think this humanly correct proposal that solves certain problems. I believe that the promoter that the Government of the Republic of Croatia said we will take this and that she said this, that they would say to you every honor is human, so this is a question of human beings, this is a question of poverty. Today when we give up the streets, the other day in my village of Suhač, a man stops me and says I've got a pension, I don't know 15 kunas, but it just transferred this to him, and now we have to pay 70 kuna. In fact, with his retirement, he lost 58 kuna, him and his wife. Therefore, if the legal proposal refers to the poverty threshold, if the pensioners, regardless of the pensioners in the HDZ party, the Most, the SDP, the HSU, are irrelevant, this is not even a question of party oversmart and the current popularity of Beros who will come here and say that we are raising because I'm popular because I said keep the social distance 2m there every honour I get, it's not a question of humanity, not using my current popularity to crush this humanity. And there is no right nor Andrej Plenkovic to humiliate us as parliamentary representatives in this last week is there likely to be a chance of this popularity for the election, is it later due to numerous decisions and chaos that will be inconceivable, there is no right for any colleague and colleague, so regardless of whether it was God Petrov who is not here or my former colleague, Žagar, who is now I do not see it that way at all. I don't think you HDZ colleagues need to look at it this way, that's my goal, and you're the esteemed secretary. There's not even a policy in this proposal. Is this what they suggested that it was too much, how people survive you let's ask a question that was asked by the promoter? Hardly. At the moment we have hundreds of thousands of agencies, as many as we have employees in agencies, in offices, in administrations, there is nothing to do but stop the development of the Republic of Croatia and strike directly at local self-government. All the local self-governments, all the institutions depend on these agencies, the papers, the certificates, the triba pray them, the triba wear the prosciutto, the triba wear them, I think I know how easily they've all been spotted, they've caught the whole system. And then we wonder why people move out. I think this could be solved by a very light tone, no matter what it suggests in the opposition, the opposition party, and of course that this could be found and consent, maybe it shouldn't have been in the lip this much, but maybe even more resources to say here are the abolished counties that are pointless. Here's a colleague, Celic, will confirm, the systolic county which is the meaning other than what a flow water heater is full of stones, those decentralised funds that the tribal would end up for health care if we had health care services, ending up for them to arrest as many of their people as possible. I'm sorry these people, I... there are honest people, but people literally don't have mystics. In my Split-Dalmatia County I'm even donating them four chairs is it makes me feel like these people are giving up on the ice in front of the lawn, that side by hallways at least to have a sit on the chair neatly, so they got mad at me. But the fact is, I suggested to the county and me how needlessly they hired these people, but it's a party machine. And these poor ones are going to be in the election, they're going to emphasize this as they raised 13 kunas for 200,000 people, and families for 13,000 people or 200 million are not but 13 million and that's not good. And that's not good, I notice it here as a man who may not agree with Mr. Hrelja in many but less important things, these are the important things why we are here because in this village man if there is no, what I care is he a Croat or a Serb, is he in SDP, is he in HDZ, the man lives with me and the man is hard, if he finds it difficult, if I'm a man, then that man needs help. So I expect you to accept this proposal that is rational, which is founded and signed by me and my club to go into emergency procedure and... i.e. to discuss, not in an emergency procedure, and I have no problem supporting this before God and man, in front of anyone and defending this. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I don't have any problem with that, so I don't believe why they have a problem with the parliamentary representatives of the majority. You might have been able to if you wanted a political this, what, and I understand that, we're all here on some kind of market, but in these things you could find a model way to solve this problem and not a week before you put a coward's egg with false information inside means about the number of users that will get health insurance, you won't have to pay for the amount. So we didn't have some analytical representation, an analysis that she came here, the minister said so much for up to 2400 if we lift up, so many people, I mean, it was just meant to be, but if Bandic decides on everything, if M. Bandic decides on everything, then why wasn't he Lola M. Bandic and his trabants who stole the mandates of the people, why didn't they agree on these amounts? So they told me at least get rid of it, it's not a pamphlet, it's a fight, here's a hand and no horizon for what you've done. It was to wash their cheeks for what they stole the voices of the people, i.e. The people gave a voice for a whole other story, went into another story and didn't even know how to wash it. Therefore, Madam Secretary, I think it would be most regular for you and the motionary to sit down, agree and find a model of how to put this into law, and so that we can solve this and that they don't listen to the most important ones anymore, because apparently under these lights of the Assembly payphone from Mark's Square you can't see not my Zagora, you can't see the Trg of Ban Jelačić down when people ask for 2 kn which, unfortunately, people... And they open containers and take out bottles. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This isn't how the poor girl's being debated. And we Parliamentarians must not fear a rabbit or a wolf because we will never... into the woods. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203131	Thank you very much. The following should be the Club of Representatives of the Independent Youth List and speak to the Honorable Representative Tomislav Panenić, who has no right to debate, and will speak on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HDZ Ivan Celic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203132	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. A well-known journalist, Snježana Gazda, passed away, and one of her famous statements is "don't over-sugarate", my colleague Bulj, it seems to me that sometimes in the fight for citizens' trust, you have a little too much sugar that's beyond reality. So, if a colleague of the Hrelja suggested 1,000 kn more, I believe they would accept it, but we must be in reality where we are and what we are. So we are talking about the amendments and the addition of the Voluntary Health Insurance Act, the proposal of the law of the esteemed representative of S. Hrelje, was passed in 2006, and 3 changes took place in 2008 and 2010 and last week, which came into force, on 30 April, supplementary health insurance as a type of voluntary health insurance to insured persons, providing health care costs from compulsory health insurance, users of guaranteed minimum benefits in the welfare system, so social people, the right to an additional health insurance policy, are being achieved on the burden of the state budget. Thus, by law amending and supplementing the law that entered into force on 30 April, the income censorship shown by family member increased from 1516 to 1563 kn and for singles from 1939 to 2000 kuna. I agree that it's not big money, my mother just belongs to this group so that for those people who will have additional health insurance after these changes, it will probably mean a lot. What should be pointed out, therefore, when they negotiated retirement associations, not retired parties, although the question is whether they are now members of some retirement party because according to the Register of Political Associations in the Republic of Croatia there are 15 retirement parties and pensioners are no specific Croatian party, there is a very well known party in Slovenia who often participates in the government, Italy, the Netherlands, Denmark, who care about a particular group of electoral bodies, there have been some other attempts but apparently pension parties make sense, and I welcome all those initiatives that are fighting for this group of populations that are very vulnerable not only because of their life gains but also because of receiving them that are not what they should be. So, the Retirement Union of Croatia and Matica of the pensioners of Croatia agreed to make these changes for 2020, respecting the situation in which we are, these agreements took place in early December of last year and there was no time for the COVID epidemic, and I think that you are the leading man of the first and most famous retirement parties should nevertheless support those legislative amendments and additions to the Law on Voluntary Health Insurance adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, not only because of this small amount but what is much more important, and what you are proposing in this legislative proposal, therefore, is the indexation of income censorship of every irregular year, the harmonisation of the censorship, you have proposed to be from the beginning of each year, in this, in amendments and addition to the laws of last week, so, the harmonisation of the HZZ implements on the basis of the data of the National Statistics Office until 30th of November of the year. You said exactly, so, the amount of income censorship hasn't been changed since 2004, changes occurred that in one period of time pensions grew a little faster and then a large number of pensioners were left without free supplemental health insurance. So now, these amendments and additions to the law have been found a permanent mechanism that monitors and harmonizes these circumstances so that there are no more absurd situations, and then there is more loss than gain for this part of the retirement population. In these challenging times, the government tried to respond, although, in the first place, the security of the public health system and the health security of our fellow citizens, but in the first package worth 30 billion kuna, it contained a unscathed delay in public giving to tax bonds with difficulties, for 3 months with the possibility of 3 months of extension, and this included contributions to pension and health insurance, the April package is 8.5 billion kuna, therefore, which can be used by employers who do not fire workers. So, in this time I still think that at the time of the COVID epidemic where significantly reduced budget revenues are, where unfortunately many employees remain without their jobs, that you should somehow feel and send a message that you are here primarily for retirement and support, although you are not fully satisfied, but somehow I have gained the impression, yet this is pre-election time, so you might get negative points from the SDP if you would support amendments and additions to the Law on Supplemental Health Insurance proposed by the Government of the Republic, because I really don't see any valid reason why you didn't support it, with a tendency to disappear, but that you as head of HSU, the most recognizable retirement parties in the Republic, continue to fight for even greater standards, even better standards, than those you have now proposed. Here, therefore, by respecting the overall situation, the HDZ Representatives' Club cannot support the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Voluntary Health Insurance Act, which is proposed by a respected colleague, Silvano Hrelja. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203133	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the promoter, we will be told by the esteemed Silvano Hrelja, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203134	Dear fellow Cellic, I see that your party closely follows the Facebook announcements, informs them by the lady who is now ashamed of this proposal and may be ashamed to enter this procedure, and you must know as a long-standing parliamentary representative that this bill has the legitimacy of 50,753 signatures of full-time citizens, that the ladies swear to represent 300 thousand people, each of whom is a legal entity for themselves and leads politics, an association policy towards a party who is in a certain municipality or a certain city, so there is no political profile and they are members of associations, members of all parties. Forget that story. I can't support something from the sense of responsibility of a representative who's been speaking from this pay phone for 18 years, and behind the proposal is 50,752 signatures. Do you know what the legitimacy is in 50,753 signatures? You want me to support something that instead of 313 increases and 400 kunas, to support something that is 47 and 61 kuna, respectively? So what principle are we talking about? You, Mr. Celić, with Mr. Dulibic, first of all, need to see why this system works for you, and the state has not paid its obligations for these categories that you have said since 2013 to this day in the amount of billions and 100 million kuna, and the additional health insurance you currently have plus on the jury account, the special jury account of the CNB of 607 million kuna. Mr. Celic, just so you know, what you're doing with supplemental health insurance is subject to criminal charges, which is what I said today, a message to the new state attorney to investigate. Who has the right, who has the right to spend money on those who pay 70 kuna each month, on the spot he doesn't pay the state. Who has the right to take that money? They didn't use, they used others, they needed to pay the state for the others, and they didn't. Hey, imagine, that's what this is about. It's about the system, people who don't know anything about this got involved, I came in, you might be a doctor and you're a doctor and a quality doctor and I'm taking your hat off for it. But don't look at the social security system. This is about problems that need to be solved. It's about protecting poor citizens. Real poverty in the Republic of Croatia 2,485.00 kn. The ladies who got involved on their own because they were right for you, in this process they first asked for everything to be settled to 2,485.00 kn, so if that's the principle that they chose 2,485.00 kn for the person who lives alone, then I take their hat off this pay phone. Ma'am, you're more successful than I am. I'm voting for it right now, but not social dumping. This is a classic example of social dumping and the embellishment of associations in some political, political games or subpolitical laps. Why? I have no idea. Valda because Mr. Bandic is happy to pay for the retirement games of a million kuna in Cavtat. Maybe that's why. I'm not getting into it, I don't care. I don't care why someone went into the process and insulted 50753 citizens' signatures, and among them is a large number from Međimurje, Varazdin, members and members of Matica and the Union of pensioners of Croatia, so their members. And now trumpets honk over the facebook profile, over, over the network that the Temple is supposed to support it. Support social dumping. Oh, no, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203135	We have two replicas, the first respected representative of the Sagar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203136	Thank you, Vice President HS. Dear colleagues, when you mention a billion and 100 million kuna, it's an extremely large amount of money. That it's true, that it only confirms the HZZO report. On page 5, report for 2018. the following, the number of valid policies in supplementary health insurance on 31.12.2018. is 2 350 148 with 1 676 787 persons themselves paying an additional health insurance policy, and for 673 361 policy insurance policy holders should be paid on the burden of the state budget. Once again, the policy should be paid on the state budget, on the burden of the state budget. That's what the HZZO report says. So he doesn't pay her, he doesn't pay her, the state doesn't pay her, and there's money in the account. How come?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203137	The Honorable representative of the Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203138	Dear colleague Sagar, to write, it is a kind of recognition that the state should... When the state writes the state should pay, it means it didn't pay. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Since 2013, when the system was set up on these bases a single price of 70.00 kn of additional health insurance policies that rest on solidarity among generations because otherwise ours would be older than 60. paid at the price from 180,00 to 350,00 kn insurance policy and you as the ruling party would have to protect this as a pupil of your eye because the elderly cannot pay you any 180,00 or 350,00 kn. This and the isolation of a public insurance company in order not to reach this debt state according to the categories it covers would have to be your first, first assignment and you would have to go to the polls with it, even if I lost the election, you would have to go to the polls and accept these censorships.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203139	Thank you very much. The next replica of the esteemed representative of Cellic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203140	Dear colleague Hrelja, it is evident that there is a conflict between these retirement associations with you and now it is a question of who brought the cake to whom, it will be seen in these upcoming elections, but I will point out again. So that these differences in increases by 47,00 and 61,00 kn are agreed only for 2020. What I still think that you should have supported it is an indexation that is contained in both your legal proposal and I reaffirm that we live in the time of the COVID epidemic. You fought for about 3850 pensioners related to Royal Insurance, I supported it, and I would support it again, and that's a good thing you did, but you said on that occasion that you would support government projects related to the pension population and, in this context, I believe that you should support the amendments and additions of the Voluntary Health Insurance Act proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203141	The Honorable representative of the Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203142	I told you, Mr. Cello, that I would support it if you would accept these censorships. But for the crumbs from the retirement table after 15 years. I'm never ready to vote, and it obliges me, you know, I don't know how you'd react, if you'd gathered your party if it had raised 50,000 signatures to increase the censorship of 313.00 and 400,00 kn, I don't know on the basis of which political principles you would then vote for 47,00 and 61,00 kn. Come on, please prove to me this political principle by accepting the dumped offer. And secondly, Silvano Hrelja, 18. The best projects are realised in collaboration with retired leaders of pension societies. Reimbursement of pensioners' debt and addition from 4 to 27% without which the pension was smaller, along with them. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203143	Thank you. The next should be the essence of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns and Independent Representatives Željko Glasnović and Zlatko Hasanbegovic and should be spoken by a respected representative of Hrvoja Zekanovic, who is not, loses his right to speak, and will be the next to speak the respected representative of Peđa Grbin on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203144	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State. Me, when we're discussing this law, we don't care at all about some kind of argument and its existence behind the retirement associations. I am interested in the discussion of this law by the people to whom this law applies and I am interested in the figures or financial calculations behind it. And the people behind this law and to whom this law applies are our grandparents and grandparents who have worked for years for minimum pensions, and today the state unfortunately has to help them in this way to ensure that these minimum pensions are not additionally burdened by additional health insurance. If you compare the proposal submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and adopted last week despite opposition and despite the refusal of the amendment proposed by the opposition, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has proposed an increase of 45 to 60 kn approximately. According to the calculation attached to this bill, it will cost $160 million annually. And now watch your math, and not like my colleague Hrelja and I agreed, we don't talk about any integrals, we don't talk about derivations, we're not talking about higher mathematics that's hard to understand for a person who doesn't have any stronger mathematical education, we're talking about subtracting and collecting, multiplying and dividing. The proposal that is before us today and we are now discussing would raise the price of 300 to 400 kn approximately, 300 to 400 kn is how much I understand mathematics, respected colleagues and colleagues, more than 45 to 60 kuna. The government when it proposed that this proposal be rejected, it explained that we cannot accept it because it would cost in 2019. 50 million kuna, 2020. 100 million kuna, these are not my figures, these are the figures that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has given in its opinion. And now I'm asking you, and I was hoping that the Ministry's representative would speak because I would ask him that, please explain to me, how an increase in census of 45 to 60 kn could be more expensive than an increase in census of 300 to 400 kuna? He can't. Dear colleagues and colleagues, he can't. And that simply means that the government lied when she or she explained the bill we sent to the procedure last week or she lied when she refused the proposal sent by her colleague Hrelja. Because if the figure is the same, if 150 million kuna is needed for what a colleague of Hrelja proposes and for what the Government of the Republic of Croatia has proposed, then why, for God's sake, have we not adopted what will far more help our citizens and citizens? Please explain that to me. And you can't explain it. You can't explain simply because the law that voted you last week has been passed solely for the sake of the election and for that alone. You're saying now that we're supposed to vote for an increase of 45 to 60 kn, no matter how we vote for it? Well, it's a common con, it's a common dusting in the eyes. The math we've been told is that it's about 12 thousand people. 12 thousand people who will receive something worth 850 kn annually are not a burden of $160 million for the state budget and cannot be. Take these two numbers, multiply them, and you will see the amounts. And you'll see that the government simply lied and threw dust in the eyes just because before the parliamentary elections come, it wants to show how something like a foll works. Of course the SDP club will support this bill. And last week we supported the amendment sent by the Club of Representatives of HSU, which was more or less consistent with this bill, if that amendment had been adopted, would have supported the bill and I believe that this debate would not be necessary today. But we're not just gonna stop at that. Not only will we support this law today, but when after the election, we have a chance to decide which direction the Republic of Croatia is heading, then we will make this. Not only is this right now to help people who are particularly in the situation of COVID 19 in a difficult situation but because this law provides for mechanisms that will prevent us from coming back to the situation in the future that a decade or no longer is an increased censorship, regardless of the cost of living and the average income of the country's citizens. This law provides for mechanisms for this and therefore needs to be supported. Now let me talk about another problem that is related to additional health insurance. I mentioned that last time I spoke about the Government's bill, I will mention it every time a debate is held in front of the Croatian Parliament on anything that has to do with additional health insurance, which is a violation of the provision. Article 2 The Voluntary Health Insurance Act, which stipulates that all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia are entitled to additional health insurance if insurance is in the mandatory health insurance system. A provision of a law that breaks in two ways. First, by cancelling the policies or refusing to extend the policies to those patients for whom they have been estimated to have been treated too much or to be sick and secondly, in such a way that the entire private health insurance company, in its own conditions, does not want to provide a person over 65 years of age. It's discrimination, respected colleagues and colleagues. So, just because it's discrimination, the government should react but should react and because it's not only discrimination but it's also against the law and the worst of all is that private insurance ensures that they only provide healthy people, sick and old people with whom? They're pushing HZZO because there's no profit on them at the discretion of private health insurance companies. I know why the former health minister, who I've written about this problem several times, didn't want to react. Because both the family and the family were connected to a private health insurance company. That's a fact. I was hoping the new minister would have more hearing, but he's gone. And yet we are in a situation that the government of the Republic of Croatia is the worst, the government that owns the HZZO, the founder of the HZZO, which, if the HZZO is in a difficult financial position, has negative consequences, not only tolerates but also encourages, and encourages them to, when you warn them, when you provide them with insurance conditions in which black on white it says they are discriminated over 65 years old, they say it's okay, there's no violation of the law. Dear colleagues and colleagues, once again, we support this bill, this is a better solution, a more systematic solution than the one proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and at the same time we call on the Government of the Republic of Croatia to introduce order into the DHA. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203145	Thank you very much. Next, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSU-SNAGA-independent MPs and New Politics, the respected representative Tomislav Žagar will speak. Here you go. I'm sorry. Now, a respected representative of Silvano Hrelja has come forward on behalf of the promoter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203146	Dear Comrade Grbin, please hold for a moment. Yes, not that we will do this when we are first able to increase these censorships because the government's obligation is to fight poverty in 2014-2020 under the Strategy against Poverty. The document states that an important segment of the fight against poverty is the availability of healthcare through an increase in the price for the release from payment of the PDO policy for the poor. We've got a lot of guys like that. Three quarters of what the state pays are pensioners, pensioners who do not stop this public insurance company, and the Croatian government does not take care of the public insurance company, although its founder, they are condemned to pay market prices or be without DZO, market prices are like in Slovenia 35 euros per month, from 180 kuna to 350 kuna. Our request and signatures of 50,753 signatures are not only against increasing the policy to increase the censorship but is for the independence of the public insurance company, that each party, and only two sides, are citizens who meet their payment obligations of 70 kuna per month and the other side is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which has remained in debt since 2013 to this day for a billion and 100 million kuna. Almost 2 billion since 2009 until today she has not paid for what she protects, for this 520,000 currently, which is in your bill of law that protects and pays for the policy. You understand what it means, 2 billion is due. How strong that system is with a million and 670,000 fuses when it lasted. And he lasted why? Because the funds of those who pay each month are also used for those for which the state has not paid. You know, I got involved in this in 2013.When we were supposed to change the system, 2016.When the policy was to increase on the application of the queen I got involved in this to get to know every detail in this insurance and all the problems, and I'm proud of that, I'm proud of this bill. Don't disrespect HSU, don't glorify the self-proclaimed representatives of pension societies because they represent only themselves, not their members, and not their needs. I ask you and the first thing not only censors, but the first thing when we come to power is the isolation of the public insurance company and each side will pay what is required and if it is necessary then the price of the policy for these citizens will be reduced to 55 kuna, and not that you will be careful, you can nod your head as much as you want, but every citizen, I personally who pay for it, I have over 60, but I have long paid for the public policy insurance policy, I have a contract with them. How come the right of someone in the ministry to pay on the basis of my insurance for what the state didn't meet? Where'd he get it? And that's what's happening. If it wasn't for my colleague Grbin because I didn't come up with the data for 2019 and 2020 as much as the transfer of the Ministry of Finance to the DHA, that it wasn't those 150 million double purposes to count on for what was to be paid and as a great benefit for the pensioners, as a great gift to the pensioners before the elections, it could be, that these 150 counts both as a debt before and as a charity of the Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203147	We've got two replicas. He's the first respected representative of the Bulls.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203148	I would like to ask you to comment as a motionary, I have signed to discuss this as soon as possible, when my colleague Celic says that I have sugared or how I oversold my speech. However, all this time since the crisis the opposition has been constructive, everything the opposition has accepted. And those who object to us that we have adopted absolutely nothing, anything that is in the contribution of our citizens, any measure, mainly examples of the bank being put on loans and interest by the moratorium of the bank. It's like we sugared what Slovenia did, and in this case, mathematics is clear, citizens said, pensioners are 50,000 you mention. And there's nothing weird about it here, fellow Cell. It's just weird how you're from some noble initiative just pulling some kind of political facts. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203149	The answer of the esteemed representative of Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203150	Well, colleagues Bulj, you have a special way of presenting this, your attitudes and it's nice anyway, and perhaps Mr. Celic said so, figuratively, that you like to sugary. I mean, I have a problem with sugar, so I don't like that expression, but everything's fine. All right, we understand each other, and it's good for you to say it, but the bottom line is your replica is to me why a good proposal that goes in favour of the citizens wouldn't accept the position. After so many internships in the Croatian Parliament, as soon as that happened, the second day I wrote a proposal to declare it, the day to declare itself a holiday of democracy in the Republic of Croatia, that a good opposition proposal concerning 150, 200 thousand citizens and the poorest, was accepted by the ruling majority. The way things are going, I'll hardly live to see it, but either It would be good for me to experience it. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203151	Thank you very much. The next replica is respected MP Leakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203152	Thank you, Vice President. I'm sure Vice President Reiner knows better than I do that neither salt nor sugar, nor salt or sugar, right? So, colleagues of Hrelja, except that those two are no good, neither is it worth it, is it not, that it is saddened that we have come to Croatia in this situation to argue in HS about who better represents, who gives, who takes, who actually uses who here in some way is actually using the electoral breakthrough. Except that it is, therefore, a bill that needs to be supported in any case, this is not only about helping the poorest citizens but also about achieving the fundamental human right, which is the right to health, i.e. the right to health care that the state, the social state of which Croatia is defined and what we all stand for should actually be. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203153	The answer of the esteemed representative of Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203154	Dear fellow Members, there is really no need to compete over the corruption, to scold about who has the right to represent. HSU is here, the 18th year parliamentary party thanks to the votes of Croatian citizens in the elections, and not only of the pensioners but also of their children in the fight for their rights. I'm a proud representative all those years. And I repeat to you this, we are a political creation whose father and mother are the Union of Retired Croatians and Croatian Retired Mothers. They created us because they couldn't reach their goals of debt recovery, I am grateful to these honorable people and proud that I got the chance to fight for the pensioners, which doesn't mean that someone among them has the right to dictate the terms of a political party. how it will work and how it will act politically. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203155	Thank you very much. Next will be the Club of Representatives of HSU, SNAGA, Independent Representatives and New Politics, on behalf of which will speak the respected representative Tomislav Žagar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203156	Thank you, Vice President of HS, Your Honor, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us the law of HSU and colleagues Hrelje, which is simply a better law than the one the government has proposed, which was adopted here in HS. So this law is better. Why is it better? So because we can't accept the fact that we in the Republic of Croatia admit that the poorest citizens, whom there are many, especially pensioners, can survive with 2,000 kunas without problems. It's a simple fact, and that's where we can't get away from it. So HSU collected over 50,000 signatures, a colleague of the Hrelja said. I was an active participant in this gathering myself, and we went to the pensioners' associations, I heard their comments, they all agreed that even those who come out of this censorship, who doesn't even bother that they need.../incomprehensible/... the weakest help, I apologize. So, it's about that many in the Republic of Croatia with low pensions can't pay extra health insurance, or if they pay it at the end of the year, together with a RTV subscription it's one less pension. Instead of getting a Christmas card, they lose one pension. A very important thing, when we talk about this topic is a public insurance policy, so HZZO and the whole story, if we look at it the same context can be seen like this. The elderly population, especially pensioners, is more exposed to diseases than poverty, is also exposed to diseases. So they're a risk insurance group, health insurance. And if they, if the censorship increases too high, they will fall out of the payment obligation, and they, according to the government's proposal, are actually guaranteeing the survival of the public insurance company. In other words, the public insurance company will not then have people paying for the policy, so ultimately, its survival will be at stake. The poorest citizens cannot ensure the survival of public insurance, the government cannot, must not call. When we talk about the Government's proposal, we will point out once again why we were against this proposal, because so little increase in censorship, for a single man it was 61 kuna, for a family member 47 kuna, it is not enough, and what has most startled us and what we warned the government representatives of then, although the proposal has passed 3 Ministries has in which way reached the figures of 150 million kuna and 200 thousand citizens that will be covered by this bill. No math can support that. If we look at the HZMO report, here for March 31st, it's actually a similar situation with April 31st, 30th. The largest number of pensioners, nearly 200,000 have a pension of 2000.00 to 2.500,00 kn. So it seems to us that the proposal of the government law has just been to delinquent these people, that most of the pensioners from 2000,00 to 2,500,00 kn do not enter into this story, in this story of free supplementary health insurance, and we cannot possibly accept the fact that they have the resources that are enough for theirs, for their lives. So it seems to us that this, in this way, the government has elegantly deceived the citizens by saying that 200,000 of them will be released from paying additional health insurance because the calculation that the HSU Council has been doing and the associations have admitted it is only talking about 13,000 and some citizens who would come into this situation. And indeed she, the argument that is set here, has repeatedly been repeated today, and the colleague of Hrelja is when the bill has been rejected, this one that has no money, and right about the amount even, even somewhere the amount is 150 million kuna for 2 years, suddenly the money has and is said to be, will be secured in the state budget. True, as I recall, the minister when explaining the government's legal proposal said that, that Minister Maric was oral, so verbally promised that the funds would be found. We still haven't, we don't see the rebalancing, the rebalancing today was on, at the government, we don't see whether these funds will really be secured in the state budget, so the funds amounting to 150 million kuna or slightly more. What is unacceptable in this proposal that the government has given is a low increase in the censorship it can already tomorrow, let's say, and if elections are announced tomorrow, the pensioner can happen if he is a member of the electoral commission, at that moment he falls out of censorship and must pay for additional health insurance. In other words, pensioners are forced to dance on a wire, and at any moment they can fall out of, in fact, the measure of free supplementary health insurance or that the state pays for them. When it comes to this legislative proposal, Hrelja's colleague stressed this, the increase in the censorship proposed by HSU in this law is exactly half the wage growth in the last 16 years. So it's not, it's not just like that, it's a certain amount, but it's marked by the average half of the salary growth in the last 16 years. how the census hasn't changed. These censorships set to that level would allow many pensioners to get through their retirement days more easily, to go to a doctor and to survive more easily in an age that is otherwise difficult, and I say especially because they are exposed, exposed to diseases. A fellow Hrelja, as I recall, when this legislative proposal was proposed, was long awaited by the government's reply and said what is here today in one of the replicas said, and even if the government had accepted this proposal, turned it into its own, directed it into, into, here in the assembly, and if it had been adopted, we would have been pleased with that. But in this way bidding, so rounding up to 2,000,00 kn percent for a single man, which is 3.1%, and then also with a 3.1% increase in censorship per family member from 1.516.00 to 1.563.00, you can actually see that there was no more serious, more serious calculation than there was a chance that 2,000,00 kn would be enough to save 200 000, which is, therefore, a completely unrealistic number of people from, than paying for additional health insurance. Finally, colleagues and colleagues, I ask you to support this legislative proposal. Of course, I have no illusions that, yes, and the law that the Government, which was adopted, which the government proposed before this law was a pre-election law, that it was only a pre-election promise with these over-inflated figures, but this law is too serious, it concerns too many citizens of the Republic and those of the most vulnerable and vulnerable in Croatian society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203157	Now, again on behalf of the promoter, the respected representative of Silvano Hrelja will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203158	Your Honor, don't mind, but I'm fighting every argument for my law and don't save this precious time, you may hear something very interesting, perhaps that changes your way of thinking, etc. Yes, it's true that so far, my colleague Sagar is at least five or six years old. The public insurance business was based on the payment of the poorest, those who were objectively unable to do so. Look, this chart says that the total number of shelves, this green one, is going down. The total number of people whose government pays, this, this, this bottom line, is falling even more, and the blue curve is growing, the number of agreed policies. So, in fear of their health and those who objectively cannot, objectively, who are poor because they now have under 1.565.00 or have below or kuna above 1.565.00 or kuna over 2,000.00, and for them, the government has now said that they are rich. Before that was 1.516,00-1,939,00 for them she said they were rich, they began to pay their own extra health insurance policy of 840,00 kn per year. That shows this, you can't escape the arguments, you can't. Someone said, a number of people are coming out of Croatia and the number of insurance companies is shrinking, perhaps, but then it wouldn't increase this number of policies for people who pay themselves because they live in fear of their own health, for their availability, if they could ic on specialist examinations are poor. So what it says in this law, the legitimacy of this law is the fight against poverty and for HSU, this law is one, only one in the mosaic of organised systematic fight against poverty, in some way in the implementation of HSU what the HDZ or the Government of the Republic of Croatia has committed to implementing the Strategy against Poverty, has not done. So we can't accept that the reason we passed the law last week, COVID 19. We can't. COVID 19 has made citizens, poor citizens, because this is not just a law for pensioners, regardless of what we are HSU, there are poor citizens, unemployed citizens with many decent families, with a lot of family members, with low income censorship, all of them protected, not just pensioners, all of the citizens of low income. COVID 19 does not prevent you from going to specialist examinations other than emergency, COVID 19 not to stay in hospitals, but COVID 19 does not prevent this middle line that pays the most extra health insurance policy to each month with its salary or pension, paying an additional health insurance policy. And that's why there's 607 million extra income on expenditures that you can't and can't use anything else but for the cost of participation in specialist reviews because it says so in the contract with citizens. This insurance, public insurance, because the mix between a contract with citizens for a particular service and the obligation of the state to protect the poorest, it's a mix, there must be rules of the game transparently set and they are not but we have a spill. You know, if you don't think of clearing it up and if you're going to hunt in a blur, then I'm going to end my career as a law enforcement officer because the audit has indicated that I can't waste my resources on purpose and switch from left to right.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203159	We are going to an individual debate and will be the first to speak to the respected representative Mladen Karlic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203160	Thank you, Madam Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. The esteemed colleague Silvano Hrelja, here, your bill of law, since you are a very dear, kind representative, very serious and this proposal is good, may have come at the wrong time here on the constituency benches, but what I would like to say is that somehow your performance was a little too firey, aggressive, theateral even, perhaps pre-election, the law itself is not, he came in time and before but a little bit of a pre-election, I often think that if we don't accept this proposal, that we might get a heart attack or stroke somehow as upset as you seem, but I see that you're joking, but we're doctors, so we're gonna help you if we need to, but somehow we have to take a few facts since it's only good now and everything else that the government has made is bad, not good, it's not good, it's not good, it's not good. First, we must consider that for 2 years there has been a continuous indexation of pensions or pension growth, that is, number 1 which we must consider in order to understand a little situation. Of course, that pension increase then leads to one part of the people being left without free extra insurance. On the other hand, it must be taken into account that the government means, however, in this difficult situation of the crisis, it has taken some measure, so it has increased the censorship by 60 kn, it's not much, but already 60 kn means it reduces your demands by 60 kn or 59 kn, so it's a good purpose and it's helped, it certainly helped one part of the people, is that 10, 15, 20,000, I don't know at this point but it helped. So two things we have, an increase in pensions and an increase in this census means 2,000 kn for a single man and 1563 for a family. On the other hand, what is of the same third importance, it has been established, so the government has determined that a formula will go towards which the censorship will increase each year, so there is no more that this is one-time than every year in the 11th month. HDZ is making a decision to increase, it's the third thing that matters. Secondly, what this year is going to mean is that the government's assessment is that it's going to have a free supplemental insurance and it's going to make 200,000 people, which is the same thing, I'm not 100% sure as I'm not even sure about yours that it needs 100 million, or I don't know, this other thing, that it's going to be maybe 12 to 15 000 kuna, all of these are estimates, so it's not exactly the exact information, so to catch up on it, it's not maybe convenient. If it means 200 000 kn, then it's that 168 million kuna as much as it's supposed to be in the budget, it means that if you multiply by 840 how much it takes for that. So it's not just the pensioners, it's also four, five, six categories of people who are disabled and I don't know, those blood donors and everyone else. What we already said at the end of last year, the union and queen agreed with the Prime Minister, Mr. Plenkovic, here is how to accept this, this beginning of the increase that will then be further. For your proposal, you need to say 100 million kuna, so that's somewhere, what, 120,000 people would be covered by this. But since the pandemic of COVID was declared 19, that we are all aware that this will lead to at least one 25 billion kuna less income, means a lack of money in the state budget, that it will have to be in debt to the state. That what is very important, that, at this point, the Croatian government is taking care of 595 thousand workers to get paid. 595 thousand workers will now be helped by the government to get paid, otherwise they would have lost it. At this point, it's really unacceptable, i.e. it's hard to secure this much more resources to secure this part, but if we take into account that in the last year there were 667 thousand insurance companies who had the right to supplemental security on the burden of the state and that this year they are increasing, I think we can be satisfied and that this is the beginning of actually solving this problem that exists, which we are aware of, of course, and we would all be aware immediately to increase to 2500 kuna, because let you 2000 and, I don't know, 400 is the threshold of poverty. Who can live with 2400, 2500 or below 3,000 kuna, and that's survival. So in that sense, but I'm saying, given this situation, right now, I think it's just hard to accept. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203161	Thank you. We have two replicas. The first is the respected representative Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203162	Dear colleague. I listened very carefully to my fellow Temple and to you, but what is always forgotten is that from the beginning of 2019. The government and we here voted the law to increase the contribution by 1.5% of health insurance, which is very important that goes into HZZO revenues, which also serves the costs of those who are most needed and all of us, therefore, it is over a billion and 300 million kuna, if not more, therefore it is very important and therefore these surpluses in HZZO of 600 million kuna. .../incomprehensible/...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203163	Dear Representative, Comrade Hrelja, come on, calm down a little, please don't throw yourself out of the bench in an ugly way. The replica of the respected representative Karlic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203164	Here's a thank you, colleague. What's important is that.../incomprehensible/... really not just, no, this is one of the only moves that is, but the government has to take care of a lot more and a lot of broader problems.../incomprehensible/... social categories, to satisfy, to help our citizens, because this is just one small segment, when you look at 70 kuna, and a lot more than billions of kuna is needed to ensure a better life for our citizens, especially those socially endangered. And these are all, each of these is actually a rock that would contribute. I know that Mr. Hrelja may be the most important, but surely there are many bigger problems that we in Croatia have to help, and Croatia is working on.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203165	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203166	Thank you, Vice President. Dear counterpart Karlic, one thing to stress, although it is repeatedly mentioned, this legislative proposal applies most to pensioners because other categories they have free of charge, they are not subject to censorship. And another thing, when you say that this at a bad time came this proposal, it came in May last year, that's the problem. It was only in October that a negative response came to the government, it was time for this proposal, for it to be considered, for the government to accept it, even if the government accepted it as its proposal. I agree with you that the government had good intentions with its legal proposal, but you know what it says, the road to hell is filled with good intentions.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203167	Dear Representative Karlic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203168	So I think it's very important that the government has brought in initially, that it's actually going to increase the censorship, that it's taking measures, that they coordinate each year, and that in time it means, surely, there's a stronger coordination, everything depends on what moment we're going to get out of this crisis, when it's going to improve... I don't think there was this coronavirus infection that would be much better today and that we could think about a much larger amount of raising this censorship and, of course, then certainly a lot less of those people who would be on this poverty threshold... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203169	The next one will speak again on behalf of the promoter, the respected representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203170	Dear colleague Karlic. Don't worry about my health, the characteristics should be of every parliamentary representative to defend his views with a lot of zeal. If she's ready to burn for her attitudes, I'm saying this from the heart, I'm not raising anyone and I'm saying what the numbers show. What the numbers show. In 2016, the state remained short of supplemental health insurance of 203 million kuna. In 2017, the country remained short of additional health insurance of 124 million kuna. In 2018, the state overpaid 34 million kuna, so it gave an extra one, but in the meantime it reduced the number of insurance companies by more than 200 thousand, it fell out because of censorship. When I'm having Mrs. Devereaux. Peric says it is due to payments from contributions, these are nonsensics, people. A million and, a billion and 400 million kuna citizens pay additional health insurance, each day 3 and a half million kuna sits at the expense of additional health insurance. Every day. Officers, any pensioners, any workers. Who doesn't pay? In the last 12 years, the state has remained short 2 billion kuna for additional health insurance. I don't have any data for 2019 and 2020, I don't know. That's why I doubt that 150 million kunas are meant to comply with the government's commitments to the supplemental of last year or this year. I don't know what's in the budget right now, I don't know. Don't doubt what I'm saying, sit with me, I'll show you everything on paper, these are official tables, these are charts, these are reports. These are reports, no memories, no feelings. No feelings, no facts, no numbers. Let's talk about it that way and let's say that the government has made its role that, in relation to the strategy that this government has adopted, the fight against poverty has done something. Did she do something? Is it £47.00 to increase this censorship's contribution enough to fight poverty or not? Is 61,00 kn enough or not? Dal is right about these 50,000 citizens, members of associations, as well as all other citizens who signed or the government who offered crumbs and who said, well, you see, it's still moving, so you see, it's still moving. Why didn't it start at 300 or 400, then install the mechanism for those who had dropped the last 5 years. will be re-covered by supplementary health insurance? Because the government doesn't care because the system rests on paying the poorest because if they don't pay, if this number hasn't been reduced by 200,000, then the state should give another 200 million kuna a year to protect these categories. And here it's said that other categories, other categories don't have censorship. There are no categories for which the state pays and which have censorship, only these two categories of income, others do not. Neither voluntary blood donors, no matter how much they receive, no students, no students, no disabled, no other categories that are less. They are not subject to income census, only to workers and pensioners, those who live by their work or their past work. That's the problem. That's the problem. But if you don't want to understand the language of numbers and the language of arguments, I can't help it, but I have the right to speak with a colleague, Karlic, with a lot of passion, and to stand up for what I've been doing all these years. And as for my health, we can go together to the coast of Sava, there on, on, on a rash and run off so slowly, it doesn't take much, but also talk about all this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203171	Thank you. We have, we have one replica of the esteemed representative, Karlic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203172	Thank you. Oh, Mr. Hrelja, I agree with one part, I'm glad that you're so energetic, that you fight like this and that really every MP should in his field fight so hard for our citizens. But this is a small segment. I couldn't possibly accept you saying that the government doesn't care, that the government doesn't care, and the government is taking care of 595 000 workers now, giving them a salary they wouldn't get, 595 000, that's over 2 billion kunas must now be provided at this point to pay Croatian workers to survive. And you're talking here about maybe some, and I'm not going to say 100,000 or so now, which maybe 70.00 kn or not monthly. So I think that I understand that this is a problem and that this is slowly to be resolved and that it's important, but at this point when you have 600,000 people who won't get a job, who won't get paid and that there's no government to provide it, I think it's a much, much bigger problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203173	The Honorable representative of the Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203174	Dear colleague Karlic, let me remind you. This law is addressed to an emergency procedure with the signatures of colleagues who later gave support, 58 gave support to this law in May last year. In May of last year, Mr. Maric, the finance minister flourished with happiness because we have a full budget, people remember, don't make me replace the thesis, thesis, replace the thesis with this situation now, this one hit us all. And I did, did you hear from me one word of an accident or that I said I didn't appreciate what the government is doing for the unemployed? You're not and you'll never hear it, but it's not, it's not the same story, it's not the same story. This is a story from last year that was supposed to be solved.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203175	The next individual debate was supposed to be a respected representative of Gordan Maras, he's gone, he's losing his right to speak, so he's going to speak to respected representative Karolina Leakovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203176	Dear Vice President, my dear colleague, I thank you. Here's a chance to say something and in general about the health system that started to work, so after much has been stopped by the COVID-19 epidemic or the coronary crisis, and we'll only actually see how in relatively, I won't say peace-doping but still slightly different conditions our health administration headed by the minister is dealing with the consequences of this health crisis. As it has been so far, we have seen that in all those countries that have a public health system, and we are one of those, so that we have inherited from the former system and that we have not been able to break down despite many attempts, so in the past 30 years. and in healthcare introduce the principles of commercialisation, so we see this through these private or such voluntary insurance companies, that both in health and in education and in some other activities, it is actually a market principle that dictates who will be able to treat, who will be able to educate and so on, we see in fact that our health system is much more resistant than we could possibly assume. Of course, you have rightly warned that, in fact, public health insurance is in a way financed by an abundance of those who have at least and in this context are indeed being represented and represented, but also by those who act as executive authority today or in two months' time by someone else, we must ask whether it is a system that is sustainable or we will still pump up and ask that those who have the least contributions not solidarity but actually if we look more than, but those who have much more. I believe, therefore, that one of the main roles of the state is and should actually be to provide health, health and health services on the principles of solidarity that we talked about today, but here is the opportunity to mention this word here, all of our inhabitants independently, and something about it was said by a colleague of the Grbin on behalf of the SDP Club, so whether it is about being young and not using or being young and not actually using health care services and then going into private health insurance because these old people or those who have certain health problems actually are financing this public insurance. Of course we all, I'd say almost God-fearingly pay those 70 kunas every month because we're afraid if we end up in a hospital and we need a health care service that she won't actually have the right to a health care service that's not in the set of those basics, which is really rudimentary services I'd say in relation to what we used to have. So, we have to pay additional health insurance and there is no dispute about it, but it is really a question whether those who have the least, who live on the edge of poverty must pay in this way if the censorship is crossing only a few kunas. We also see today how the budget is rebalanced, which we will hopefully soon see here in the Croatian Parliament looking for solidarity and in relation to public sector employees. So also in the health sector, in the health care system and in education, whether the burden of crisis has been solidified as if we have forgotten that in fact these two systems are, of course, along with others such as the police or civil protection, and thus contributed greatly to the fact that this crisis is being tackled in the right way. Therefore, I would not only glorify the government's political decisions here, I would not put an emphasis on it at all, but I would say that the health crisis and the favourable epidemiological situation now have the opportunity to enjoy precisely because citizens and citizens were responsible, but also because, despite the efforts of many previous ministers, despite their incompetence, despite their intention to say privatise or commercialise a good part of health services, we have managed to ensure that the health system in Croatia remains still, let's say so, on healthy feet. In this context, I, too, and your bill of law, see, in fact, as another assurance that the health system remains public, that it remains available to everyone and that, therefore, I can also enjoy all citizens and citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203177	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, the esteemed representative Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203178	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, I very much appreciate your debate of colleague Leakovic for one reason, not that we are political like-minded, we are not, but I just want to, I think we agree on a lot of things, but I just want to say something to you. What you said was true, but despite this strength and public health system and additional health insurance were two perfiduous announcements of the purchase of an additional health insurance policy, and of those people who pay for their own money is being overrun for the payment of services that everyone has made. You understand? And despite the fact that these people regularly pay $1,407,000,000 a year, an increase in the supplementary health insurance policy is required. Why? It's just so it'll spill even more. Why? Every time you look for an increase in both 2016 and 2018 and 2019 from then ministers, there has been an aggressive campaign of private insurance companies on the public health system, on a public insurance company offering cheaper policies for young and healthy ones, and the public insurance company should remain older, old and sick. They won't, look, private insurance companies work, violate the constitutional principle of equality of citizens, make no offer for insurance over 60 years old. They have to give it, 300 kuna, 200 kuna, they have to give it. They can't turn people away after years of life, which they do. But I'm sorry, I don't want to offend anyone, but the Ministry of Health on this issue comes to terms with the continuity of people from private insurance, and I'm an advocate like you, solidarity among generations, as a fundamental principle on which the developed Europe, which preserved both public health systems and pension systems based on solidarity among generations, because they are never all sick, never doing all the costs, and those of our young people who signed support for this law were aware that they were helping both on the same conditions, under the same conditions, at the price of 70 kuna, all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia had access to a health care service or have additional health insurance. Isn't that the wealth of a society? Are we of those who regularly pay for what the state does not pay? Are we allowed to allow it to be in a position of opposition, whether in association, or in a political party? We are breaking the laws, because the Voluntary Health Insurance Act defines an additional health insurance policy as the intended separation of citizens precisely for certain services in health care which now do not exist during Covid-19 or are in the least possible scope. So, people, give me any valid reason why they wouldn't do this at this higher level, at a level almost to the poverty line. Is there a greater reason, was there in May 2018, when this law went into procedure with the signature of an appropriate number of MPs, in an emergency procedure, that it existed then? I'm not talking about right now. Let's not mix things up. Was there a reason? It's not. And no one had the right to interfere with this. No one. Not by yourself, not by Mr. Bandic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203179	Thank you. Next individual debate, distinguished representative Tomislav Žagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203180	Thank you, Vice President HS. Dear colleagues and colleagues, dear secretary of state, allow just a few more words regarding this bill, it seems to me that it is important to pronounce them. In fact, the Prime Minister, Mr. Plenkovic, has repeatedly expressed contempt for all populists here in the parliamentary speaker. Unfortunately, I must conclude that this legislative proposal that the government proposed some time ago and adopted in HS has actually put Prime Minister Plenkovic on the table because we have repeatedly stressed that it is also the number of insurance companies that will cover the government's proposal, which is not correct. Here, this bill is far better, rests on real figures, has real foundations and is right when you talk about changing thesis. So, when the bill came to the Parliament, there was no crisis, there was money, there was a full state register, it was said, there was no money. Now that it's a crisis, it's being adopted a lot, a law that's much less demanding, but it's being faked that it's going to be about as difficult as this bill is today as we have and you say it's going to be for 200 thousand people. There is no other way to find out, we cannot take away the impression that it is cheap populistism and that in fact the legal proposal adopted by the government does not correspond to the truth and will not benefit most of the poor Croatian citizens. But one other thing, one dimension I'd like to emphasize. When we look at the HZZ report, and it's right there, there's a key thing. Given this crisis that has hit the Republic of Croatia, we can expect the situation to become even more complicated. In all age groups, be careful, in all age groups unemployed in HZZ, women are ahead of them. In a 54-59-year-old group, that is, our future pensioners, the most women there are. They don't have enough, they won't have enough work experience, they will, their pensions will be small and many of them will fall out of this censorship that the government has proposed and adopted in HS. This census would save those women. Of course, not just women, but I say, in all age groups on HZZ, women are ahead of women. And the other thing, family pensions, here's HZMO data, the secretary of state must know them. In the 2000-2500 kuna group, nearly 50,000 family pensions. In a 1,000-year-old group, I'm sorry in the 1500 to 2000 kuna groups another 31 thousand. So 80,000 family pensions. Do you know in rural areas who is the beneficiary of family pensions? Well, it's the women. The moment they retire and the ones who got up every morning at 5:00 a.m. at work, some of them got up at 4:00 a.m., they did a job, they retired, you know what they had to do? They have to say I'm giving up my pension. I'm taking 70% of my husbands, whoop, crossing the census and still paying by then, according to this censorship, she didn't pay by family member, but the moment she takes her husband's pension, she crosses the censorship 70% and pays for additional health insurance. Is that fair? It is this legal proposal that seeks to correct injustices, that the poorest do not carry the burden of health insurance because everyone has the right to health, even the poorest, and are the poorest at the end of the day. And just as the president of the Retired Association in Slatina told them, he said, "I should take three treatments a year, but they told me I couldn't, we only have one or two, I don't know. He's not the only one, he said it was his case, there's a lot of cases of people where they can't get therapy because he doesn't have enough money. The health system is piled up with many problems, only now and after this crisis will we see, but these are things, these movements could have been, they could have been, they could have been, they could have been, they could have been, we could have said, symptoms and the health system. We regret that the ruling did not, they did not see it, we are still hoping, until the vote that this would change, it would be extremely important for this legislative proposal and for the future of these pensioners who are on HZZ today and for the future of our pensioners who are paying additional health insurance today to adopt this legislative proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203181	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, finally, imported... Excuse me, sir, here's your distinguished representative, Leakovic, the replica. [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203182	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Žagar, yes, you have warned of a problem concerning women and poverty and are not told with the full right that poverty in age has a female face and that is indeed true when it comes to being unfair, not unfair, but being discriminated against because in the event of the death of a partner, let's say we have to choose between whether or not to receive our pension or to receive a family pension and then, of course, in that way, we give up some of what we have earned and, of course, some of what we have been paying in the pension and health fund for years. Therefore, I am sure that this bill, as well as some other bill proposals proposed by HSU in this context, would concern women in particular. It seems to me that both in the Parliament and in society and in all parties, we are very much calling for gender equality, for women, for that we should encourage women and men's equality, when it comes to concrete laws, about pension laws, about health insurance and so on, women on the labour market, then I don't see that it's actually being translated into politics, so it's very important to me that you and this aspect gave an emphasis. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203183	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203184	Dear colleagues Leakovic, of course, all research and data show that women are less paid in Croatian society. And not only in Croatian society, but it is expressed with us and precisely because of these small salaries, they later have fewer pensions and then they come into the situation that they have to choose. It's usually women, and it's exactly the same facts. This shows that women are less paid because they have to choose the most often 70% of their husband's pension that is larger than this pension. It's the same thing, I didn't mention it in the debate, it happens when in rural areas it's like, why is it that some doctors say, it's usually women who live longer and the same time the censorship is divided into two, the spouses of the moment the spouse dies, the most often I say male family member, the woman stays alone, now it's no longer divided into two, but she automatically crosses the censorship. The costs are the same, the heating, the electricity, everything and I say that this legislative proposal is also concerned, and the equality of women in the Croatian society that are exposed, so here lately is more and more violence.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203185	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, the finally respected representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203186	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I thank you all from the bottom of my heart for discussing this law. I thank all those MPs, and there are 58 of them, and between them and 14 of those who, in the parliamentary majority who have stopped, have signed support for this law, as well as those 50,753 signatures by citizens of all ages to support this law. I'm sorry the government didn't see it, I'm very sorry, for one reason the citizens of the Republic of Croatia need it. And exactly, I stand behind those words that I said I would support any government project if it made sense and if it was in certain, in some normal frames, and not in the dumped frameworks, it didn't have to be as much as we asked, it could have been 100,00 kn less, but not 47,00 kn and 61,00 kn. You could have taken this law and prescribed it when they already told me that the mechanism in this harmonisation law was good. You could, you could have taken it, you could've taken this bill freely and the word "government" would make it better and more conductive. You could have, but you didn't. Rather, some actors have joined in calling today HSU representatives as well as some MPs for why they did not support 47,00 or 51,00 kn increase. Gentlemen, that's not how it works. Politics, our citizens see it as very bad, some have an odium, an odium towards this job and all, but I want to wear a barrier of honorable MPs who help their citizens, and that's why I'm going to stand up for these, for these processes. And you know, those who call me today that in May last year when the bill was sent, they supported this law, I'm telling you that we would have protests together and today we would have these censorships. I am responsible for saying this, but they did not want to paint because they think that the National Council for Retired and Older Persons is stronger than the Croatian Parliament, that they have the right to all dictate to politicians what to do and that politicians are on the bot, that they have to listen to them. Politicians in HS, parliamentary deputies come out every 4 years. in the elections, it is known exactly how many preferential votes he has, how much support the citizens have, have the right and the obligation to listen to all the citizens and all the associations, but they have the right and to think about all the documents, about all the acts that the government has adopted, which this assembly has brought to implement. The strategy against poverty is the government's document, the document of the parliament, it must be respected, it must be brought to life, it is a dead letter on paper. This, bearing this bill of law, would be the first of strong and great steps towards protecting citizens from poverty. It's a long way to really protect citizens from poverty. It's a long trip, but every time it starts with the first step. This step is below the needs of Croatian citizens and below the law proposed by the government and adopted by the parliamentary majority last week. This is too small a step in relation to the needs of the citizens, and this may be the point that the leaders of the association of the same consciousness, the same degree of consciousness as their predecessors, whom I worked with as president of HSU, have been excellent. Every proposal we've ever made has been discussed, looked at and said we'd play, who'd be supportive of who. Unfortunately, it's gone, some other leaders, I'm always the same and I'm not arrogant, I'm humbled by all of you. I'm willing to explain to you how things are until they're exhausted. You can laugh at me, you can think I'm a fool, but out of respect for those citizens I'm willing to talk to for days, hours, weeks, whatever you want, here in HS because it's my job. To fight for the high goals, not to sell for a handful of rice, not to sell for one photograph with the prime minister, and we have such situations that when we came to the negotiations in time, some were willing to take pictures with the prime minister. People, enough of this clienteleism, enough selling for small money. Retired people think don't let anyone buy you, you've earned a lot more than you have, and I just want to tell the rulings, don't pretend you're doing something but really do it. Start already in this mandate that is on the verge of fighting poverty because your strategy is a dead letter on paper. Thank you very much, thank you, everyone who participated in the debate and those who disagreed with this because they gave me the opportunity to show both the strength of the arguments and the will to defend my proposal, the bill. It's not the point that we're all like-minded, but the point is that we're discussing the arguments about what is, what's on the table. It is the essence of parliament, it is the essence of parliamentary debate. I'll never get tired of that kind of debate, and for talking about the past I will, I don't want any part of it anymore. It's a waste of time and a waste of energy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203187	Thank you to the distinguished representative of Hrelja. With this, we've exhausted the debate, I'm closing the debate, we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203188	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Voluntary Health Insurance Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 643, Silvano Hrelja's representative is the promoter. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft law amending and supplementing the Voluntary Health Insurance Act, which is not supported by the Government, nor by the parliamentary working bodies, please vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? I find that the result is 51 for, 5 abstentions and 70 against, so the law has not received enough votes and has not been passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203189	We move to the next point, which is: - Final proposal of the Law on Amendment and Completion of the Law on Voluntary Health Insurance, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 643 The applicant is a representative of Silvano Hrelja on the basis of Article. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia 172 The Rules of Procedure of HS. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent manner. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings, and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with Article. 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Labour, the pension system and the social partnership and the Committee on Health. The government delivered an opinion. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Honorable representative of Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203190	Dear Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. So, first of all, I should like to express my regret about the sterileness of the Croatian Parliament because I haven't had the opportunity, although this bill has been in the parliamentary procedure since May 2019, I haven't had the opportunity to present this bill on the Committee on Legislatives and on the home Committee on Health, Social Care and Demographic Policy. Therefore, it is a tragedy of HS which at a time of crisis does not maintain its parliamentary working bodies because there are conditions, it is also proved by Mr Maras to whom I thank for having put this topic under discussion on behalf of the Committee because committees can be maintained. We have large halls, boards have 13 members, with external 15, 16, 17 we have enough space to maintain this. Unfortunately, this law was not fortunate to be presented by the promoter. Therefore, on the basis of what the Legislative Committee said, it did not listen to the arguments but clearly did not listen to the applicant and made its decision. The introduction of this bill should be made a little wider. Census that existed until last week was set up in 2004, not in 2008 by the secretary of state as it states in the light of your law but in 2004 to insist on the first time of the HSU parliamentary party. The census at that time was compared to 1.750,00 kuna average pension census per family member was 190,00 kuna smaller, but the male census was 235.00 kuna higher than the average pension. Today, the new censorships set up are 435.00 kunas less than the average pension for a family member and 500,00 lower for a single man. So, we're talking about we haven't been following up on a pension increase, but we've been letting all these years a number of citizens drown in... poverty and there's a problem with paying Joe as a guarantee of access to health care. It's a failure of all governments to understand each other, this is just a point on and at the end, this is just a point on the i. And I think there's been a big mistake or a big mistake in not respecting our bill. Our bill came after the stabilisation of the JO, some will say you didn't do it in 2013. In 2013, until then, we had social criteria for the social groups for paying the DHA. Retired people, regardless of their social status, paid 50,00 kuna, their non-working wives had no original pension paid 80,00 and the workers paid 130,00 kuna. According to EU criteria, such criteria do not exist for the DHA, and we had to set a single price for a single service and in 2013 in agreement with the honorable people of the Croatian Union and the Croatian Retired Union Union agreed that this was the only possible solution and went to a unique price policy of 70.00 kuna, and this is the only possibility that older than 60 years at that price can have a DZO. It took some time for the system to stabilize, and later I'll say why it didn't stabilize so quickly. So, in 2016, then, Minister Nakic and some of the MoST vice-presidents insisted on increasing the DZO to 89.00 kuna. At that time, HSU collected more than 100,000 signatures against the collection of DZO, today's indicators of financing the additional health insurance of this public insurance company speak and all the time say that we were right. The public insurance company is doing a good job, but you'll see in further discussion why, because something is happening that is inadmissible. Something that's inadmissible. And it came in 2018, and so did Mr. Kujundzic, on several occasions, announced the purchase of a supplementary insurance policy. Every time he announced a policy, the addition of an additional health insurance policy at the time went with an aggressive campaign for healthy and young people at 40 kuna. So, the decomposition of this big, massive insurance company that works on two key categories. One category is that they are never all at the same time sick, on, acting on the principle of solidarity among generations and acting on the principle of large numbers, large numbers and therefore functioning. So, in addition to these, such announcements that HSU has been fighting all along, we came to the famous September 2018 when, due to a slight increase in pensions, a large number of pensioners skipped these censorships and ran out of additional health insurance. So instead of getting 20 kunas more pension, and these are very low pensions, they're pensions below 2,000 kuna and below 2,500 kuna, so that's what happened, and that's when we started the hack to increase the censorship. I personally worked on Hiku from this pay phone since September 2018, so until May when I gave the procedure of this law and after more than 15 times I said that there was a need to increase the censorship and there were promises from the former minister, but the current minister in the second ministry probably won the award in the second ministry because he did not solve this, Minister Pavic, was a promise to resolve it. He can't handle it himself. This cannot be resolved without the Minister of Finance, without the Minister of Health and, of course, the Ministry of Labour because of the status of pensioners has been called. But nothing here, nothing concrete has happened here. It happened when, in October of last year, the government, beware that from May to October, it was necessary to adopt an opinion on this law, when it adopted the opinion that our bill was rejected, that the funds in the budget were not secured and that they would continue to protect our citizens at the level of social security, at the level of probably 800 kuna. I don't understand. I don't understand what the Ministry was going to say back then. At that time, the assistant minister was today, the assistant minister. So we came to this situation that they turned us down. Then we decided to take concrete action. We decided to collect support signatures for our bill. And my dear gentlemen, this bill of law, unlike what we discussed last week, has 50,753 signatures to support this law, this bill. And from the pensioners, from the citizens of the middle, younger age, young, old, all. Let's show me some of the bill that had this kind of support. The collection of signatures among citizens in November last year, within a month, from the oldest political activists, pensioners in Croatia in the winter, Minister Kujundzic declared the population, a legitimate political action to support one proposal of the law to increase censorship, from 1.516 to 1.830 for a family member and from 1,939 to 2,340 kuna for a person living alone. He dared call it populism. Here he sat when we talked you remember his, his recall. In the end, he was called off but not for that reason, and should have been called off because of such things, because a legitimate political action, the political action of the party that is in this home, in this home that nominates all ministers, he dared to call himself pulsism. And don't lie to the devil, we said if those 50,000 signatures don't work out enough we'll go to phase three. The moment this law is discussed will be, or every week, five buses of pensioners will come here precisely to those who have this problem, but I can't, I can't because of Covida-19, believe me, there's no Covida-19 to have them all these weeks here and to talk about their problems. How to pay an additional policy, how to pay a TV subscription with 1,700 kuna, the average pension for 250 lowest pensions is 1,750 kuna. Can you imagine that? And at that moment, two ladies, representatives of the Mother of Retired, otherwise a member of the National Council, otherwise persons nominated by the rulings with a Damish offer in various administrative councils and parliamentary committees, are sufficient to increase the censorship to 2,000 kuna and to 1665 kuna respectively, by 47 and 61 kuna respectively. And Prime Minister Plenkovic generously from the cabinet meeting deals with HSU representatives and says, gentlemen, I will talk and negotiate with those who want culturally with coffee to agree with me on 61 kuna. I won't talk to those who threaten protests, and just before, they were protesting you in front of his window. But don't kid yourself. They didn't arrange that censorship, they agreed on their mentor. Their mentor, Mr. Bandic arranged, with the finance minister, please give them something to calm both the pensioners and the representatives of the pensioners. That's how the deal came to pass. And now this deal last week is being shown as a generous act, the virtue of the government, an increase in censorship of 47 and 61 kuna. Can you imagine that? And you think the pensioners don't know elementary math and they'll believe that the benefits of that increase will get you 200 thousand people? They know they won't. So these associations I mentioned themselves were saying that this would apply to a maximum of 10 to 12 thousand people. Just those, the government says it's going to cost 150 million kuna. By the count, 12 times, 12 thousand times 840 kuna is 13 million a year and 100 of which 150 million kuna? But I know, later in the debate, I'll tell you why 150 million is reserved. But, to do, to show something as your obligation, to show as a benevolence, is very rude,.../incomprehensible/... ultimately punishable because it is a demeaning of the most needed in Croatian society. Those who are truly poor, those who do not see themselves from Mark's square and those who hide themselves in statistically different indicators, but they exist and we have a commitment, gentlemen of MPs and MPs, according to a document adopted by this High Croatian House, the document is called the Anti-poverty Strategy 2014-2020, where it literally says that in the fight against poverty there is a great importance of increasing the price for additional health insurance in order to ensure that healthcare is available and for those who cannot afford it from their own incomes. Gentlemen, come on, let's look into each other's eyes. Is 47 kuna increasing individual censorship, for a family member or 61 kuna for a person living alone, a contribution to the implementation of the Strategy against Poverty, which the notes do not have a recording of the situation when it was brought in 2014 or when it was restored in 2017 or has a picture, does not represent the goal of where we should come from. What is the strategy without action plans, without the path we are going and towards what goal we are going. That's what it says, Mr. Secretary of State in that strategy. I command you, look. And we're one million percent right about what we're proposing, and it's your right to refuse it, but you're taking political responsibility for it. It is your right to refuse, and because of that, I am angry at those who lie, I am angry at those who lie because it is not like the Croatian Parliament, that someone is lying that they will benefit 200 thousand people, that someone is lying that there was no other way out, so this offer, this crumb from the table, I am angry that someone is lying in the bill, for the first time since 18 years since I've been here. Such a deception to the public, that something that costs $13 million a year costs 150. That something that's going to involve 12,000 people, that's going to apply to 200 thousand people. It can't even go to elementary school. This law is correct, clean, has a mechanism for harmonising every year, fair, because it exactly increases the censorship by 40%, exactly as much as on today and has grown pensions from 2004 to today, exactly 50% of the salary growth from 2004 to today. Which parameters do you want more? Is that fair, is that an exaggeration? Is that an exaggeration? Is that what our citizens deserve? They'll say there's no money, no shit. There's another side of the medal. We'll talk about it after one of the club debates and we'll talk about it, don't think the situation is bright, no, it's dark, it's blurry. It is a cloudy situation behind supplemental health insurance and I congratulate our 1,670,000 citizens, I congratulate them from this place that they meet their obligation, obligation and pay 70 kuna a month because they, not the state, are they, and not the state, deserve that the supplementary health insurance system works. That because of their endurance and regular payment, even under conditions where there are no reviews, specialist, COVID-19, when there is no hospital stay so you can't spend on participation, so there is no cost of additional health insurance as usual and at these times they have an administrative ban on wages or pensions and they pay for it. Thanks to them, they are heroes of surviving additional health insurance in Croatia from 2004 to today, not the Government of the Republic of Croatia, according to this institute all the time the government had and all the governments had a maternal relationship and a lot of it. 50,000 signatures are not only for an increase in the censorship, but also for the independence of a public insurance company, but I'll do it later. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203191	Thank you very much. We have several replicas, the first respected representative of the coat of arms. No, no, no, sit down, so, uh, here you go, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203192	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State, what I'm about to ask you may not be directly related to your debate, but it is about the government's explanation why this law should not be accepted and the reasoning of the law we passed last week. Please, colleagues of the Hrelja, explain to me, in this explanation of not accepting the law, it says it will cost 100 million kuna a year and we cannot accept it for this reason. There's a much bigger increase in censorship here than in the proposal we adopted on Friday, and it says that these 50 kunas a year or what you said 12,000 people times 850 kunas per year will cost 160 million kuna. I'm not a mathematician, but elementary school math tells me you can't make a bigger increase. cost less than less. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203193	Honorable representative of the Hrelja, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203194	Comrade Grbin, you're right, they're neither derivatives nor integrated, it's basic mathematics and you've seen well that this increase in censorship if this law says that it's going to cost 100 or 50 last year, for this another 100 million kuna, it means 150 million kuna at year level for the coverage of 180,000 insurance companies or citizens covered by the state, then there's nothing that can apply to 12,000 to 15,000 citizens to cost that money. This is so clear because this increase from 47 to 61 kuna simply cannot achieve a number of 200,000 but can be achieved from 10 to 12,000, and these are the forecasts of all experts.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203195	The next is a replica of the esteemed representative of Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203196	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. When you mention the government law adopted here in the Croatian Parliament and the miserable increase in censorship, you are right. It's really incomprehensible that 3 ministries, watch out for 3 ministries and can't calculate and then come and it's really contract law. How, let's raise this for a single man to 2,000 is round, nice sounds, and that's 3.1%, so we'll raise that lower censorship by, per family member by 3.1%, so how much is that going to cost, so let's make it 150,000 kuna, for how many people, and then 200,000. All these figures sound handsome, but they don't match the truth and it's a shame that this assembly, that the government has turned the parliament into a pre-election body in which he, in which he will make false promises. And indeed, a colleague of the Grbin is right, simple mathematics shows that what is foreseen by the HSU proposal is enough money to raise for this amount which is a minimum increase in order to achieve the poverty threshold, to raise the censorship, not for such a miserable increase.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203197	Thank you. The Honorable representative of the Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203198	Well, look, my colleague, Sagar, this whole thing in Croatian society can look worse. When, on the orders of a coalition partner of the ruling party in Croatia, civil society associations are engaged with dumped prices and enter the process against parliamentary procedure, and parliamentary procedures are directed by law in the procedure, public debate, if you want expensive signatures, if you want to go to a referendum, it is political activation for me, it is political activation for me. The civil society that this government has given the government the opportunity to be a government adviser through the national council must propose to the government and the government cannot be called upon. You can't be a government counselor and this Protestant in front of the government window at the same time. I mean, they're mixed pots of people, it doesn't work like that, it doesn't go in the right direction.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203199	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Cellic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203200	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'd just like to correct my colleague Hrelja at the beginning, so we've held, I'm the vice president of the Health Committee, and there's been a session that fits these conditions where two members were in favour of this proposal and six against. And what you're saying about political activity, I'll remind you that the year your right hand was the right hand of Milan Bandic, the lady you're talking about, and then it didn't bother you because you had common interests. It has very successfully led to the retirement of the City Office for Social Protection and Persons with Disabilities, so one of Milan Bandić's closest associates, at the same time one of the closest associates of Silvana Hrelje, then it was not a problem, and now that this situation is related to last week's amendment to the Law on Voluntary Health Insurance, is now suddenly a problem. It's called consistency.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203201	The Honorable representative of the Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203202	It's called consistency, respect for every man who doesn't interfere in the process. You know, she was and a parliamentary representative who could've run all this in front of HSU, and she has no right to talk about the missed one right now. Therefore, while everyone does their job either at Milan Bandic as an employer or as a member of the HSU presidency, it is all right, but someone starts doing underground games with the sale of HSU representatives to HDZ via Milan Bandic then we are no longer friends, then I become much more consistent than you think. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203203	Now we're going to the clubs, so the first one will speak on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, the Honorable Representative Miro Bulj, and I'm opening a debate of course on the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203204	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, the Honorable Representative of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, we had a debate last week. We voted on a law that's obvious as the promoter said was smudged like a coward's egg. Apparently, HSU has launched in the procedure a law that holds some poverty thresholds in line with the possible and current situation in the Republic of Croatia where the poverty threshold is determined somewhere, if we're going to say this amount that you put in place means 2,340 kuna for an individual and 1,830 kuna is for those who have families of family members. I believe that regardless of what policy options this came from, I consider any mistake that currently in the Republic of Croatia is embarrassing if someone is below the poverty threshold, i.e. that there is no health insurance is health insurance in one social security system, this constitution requires the right to health services and protection of all in the Republic of Croatia. And I think that a democratic society such as Croatia's modern Croatia must not be allowed to and should not be questioned at all by any vile games, no matter where a person was a party if he played dirty and played outside the procedure. If you're playing for some kind of winning points at the expense of our citizens to show and raise 15, 20 kunas and even if it's a delusion that it's not 150,000 people but 13,000 people and if it's not 150 million kunas but 13 million kunas, I'm talking indicatively, then it's below each level. It's not a question of the worldview, it's not even a question of humanity, it's a hoax of the poorest. I don't have to agree with my colleague Hrelja in anything, and in this I'll agree that there is no right neither Beroš nor Plenkovic nor Miro Bulj and I don't know... colleague, Cellic colleague, and you distinguished secretaries cheat on the people and trick on them cowardly eggs, there's no one. Who's right? At the moment they say there will be no money, when we have 20 counties that don't know the flow boiler full of stones, there remains money for them to entangle, of course also for party political arrests which will of course serve them now in election processes. I think the deception of the people and the poorest is one great sin, no matter how much we swear on the Bible, on the Koran, on the manifesto, I don't know what he's sworn on, on humanity, on humanity, on humanity, I think it's a fraud. I think this law is correct, here's my colleague, Cilic, who's going to be given the line, if there was a colleague before in HSU or Bandic or the Most or out of Most, or at the turkey where it is, I think this humanly correct proposal that solves certain problems. I believe that the promoter that the Government of the Republic of Croatia said we will take this and that she said this, that they would say to you every honor is human, so this is a question of human beings, this is a question of poverty. Today when we give up the streets, the other day in my village of Suhač, a man stops me and says I've got a pension, I don't know 15 kunas, but it just transferred this to him, and now we have to pay 70 kuna. In fact, with his retirement, he lost 58 kuna, him and his wife. Therefore, if the legal proposal refers to the poverty threshold, if the pensioners, regardless of the pensioners in the HDZ party, the Most, the SDP, the HSU, are irrelevant, this is not even a question of party oversmart and the current popularity of Beros who will come here and say that we are raising because I'm popular because I said keep the social distance 2m there every honour I get, it's not a question of humanity, not using my current popularity to crush this humanity. And there is no right nor Andrej Plenkovic to humiliate us as parliamentary representatives in this last week is there likely to be a chance of this popularity for the election, is it later due to numerous decisions and chaos that will be inconceivable, there is no right for any colleague and colleague, so regardless of whether it was God Petrov who is not here or my former colleague, Žagar, who is now I do not see it that way at all. I don't think you HDZ colleagues need to look at it this way, that's my goal, and you're the esteemed secretary. There's not even a policy in this proposal. Is this what they suggested that it was too much, how people survive you let's ask a question that was asked by the promoter? Hardly. At the moment we have hundreds of thousands of agencies, as many as we have employees in agencies, in offices, in administrations, there is nothing to do but stop the development of the Republic of Croatia and strike directly at local self-government. All the local self-governments, all the institutions depend on these agencies, the papers, the certificates, the triba pray them, the triba wear the prosciutto, the triba wear them, I think I know how easily they've all been spotted, they've caught the whole system. And then we wonder why people move out. I think this could be solved by a very light tone, no matter what it suggests in the opposition, the opposition party, and of course that this could be found and consent, maybe it shouldn't have been in the lip this much, but maybe even more resources to say here are the abolished counties that are pointless. Here's a colleague, Celic, will confirm, the systolic county which is the meaning other than what a flow water heater is full of stones, those decentralised funds that the tribal would end up for health care if we had health care services, ending up for them to arrest as many of their people as possible. I'm sorry these people, I... there are honest people, but people literally don't have mystics. In my Split-Dalmatia County I'm even donating them four chairs is it makes me feel like these people are giving up on the ice in front of the lawn, that side by hallways at least to have a sit on the chair neatly, so they got mad at me. But the fact is, I suggested to the county and me how needlessly they hired these people, but it's a party machine. And these poor ones are going to be in the election, they're going to emphasize this as they raised 13 kunas for 200,000 people, and families for 13,000 people or 200 million are not but 13 million and that's not good. And that's not good, I notice it here as a man who may not agree with Mr. Hrelja in many but less important things, these are the important things why we are here because in this village man if there is no, what I care is he a Croat or a Serb, is he in SDP, is he in HDZ, the man lives with me and the man is hard, if he finds it difficult, if I'm a man, then that man needs help. So I expect you to accept this proposal that is rational, which is founded and signed by me and my club to go into emergency procedure and... i.e. to discuss, not in an emergency procedure, and I have no problem supporting this before God and man, in front of anyone and defending this. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I don't have any problem with that, so I don't believe why they have a problem with the parliamentary representatives of the majority. You might have been able to if you wanted a political this, what, and I understand that, we're all here on some kind of market, but in these things you could find a model way to solve this problem and not a week before you put a coward's egg with false information inside means about the number of users that will get health insurance, you won't have to pay for the amount. So we didn't have some analytical representation, an analysis that she came here, the minister said so much for up to 2400 if we lift up, so many people, I mean, it was just meant to be, but if Bandic decides on everything, if M. Bandic decides on everything, then why wasn't he Lola M. Bandic and his trabants who stole the mandates of the people, why didn't they agree on these amounts? So they told me at least get rid of it, it's not a pamphlet, it's a fight, here's a hand and no horizon for what you've done. It was to wash their cheeks for what they stole the voices of the people, i.e. The people gave a voice for a whole other story, went into another story and didn't even know how to wash it. Therefore, Madam Secretary, I think it would be most regular for you and the motionary to sit down, agree and find a model of how to put this into law, and so that we can solve this and that they don't listen to the most important ones anymore, because apparently under these lights of the Assembly payphone from Mark's Square you can't see not my Zagora, you can't see the Trg of Ban Jelačić down when people ask for 2 kn which, unfortunately, people... And they open containers and take out bottles. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This isn't how the poor girl's being debated. And we Parliamentarians must not fear a rabbit or a wolf because we will never... into the woods. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203205	Thank you very much. The following should be the Club of Representatives of the Independent Youth List and speak to the Honorable Representative Tomislav Panenić, who has no right to debate, and will speak on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HDZ Ivan Celic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203206	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. A well-known journalist, Snježana Gazda, passed away, and one of her famous statements is "don't over-sugarate", my colleague Bulj, it seems to me that sometimes in the fight for citizens' trust, you have a little too much sugar that's beyond reality. So, if a colleague of the Hrelja suggested 1,000 kn more, I believe they would accept it, but we must be in reality where we are and what we are. So we are talking about the amendments and the addition of the Voluntary Health Insurance Act, the proposal of the law of the esteemed representative of S. Hrelje, was passed in 2006, and 3 changes took place in 2008 and 2010 and last week, which came into force, on 30 April, supplementary health insurance as a type of voluntary health insurance to insured persons, providing health care costs from compulsory health insurance, users of guaranteed minimum benefits in the welfare system, so social people, the right to an additional health insurance policy, are being achieved on the burden of the state budget. Thus, by law amending and supplementing the law that entered into force on 30 April, the income censorship shown by family member increased from 1516 to 1563 kn and for singles from 1939 to 2000 kuna. I agree that it's not big money, my mother just belongs to this group so that for those people who will have additional health insurance after these changes, it will probably mean a lot. What should be pointed out, therefore, when they negotiated retirement associations, not retired parties, although the question is whether they are now members of some retirement party because according to the Register of Political Associations in the Republic of Croatia there are 15 retirement parties and pensioners are no specific Croatian party, there is a very well known party in Slovenia who often participates in the government, Italy, the Netherlands, Denmark, who care about a particular group of electoral bodies, there have been some other attempts but apparently pension parties make sense, and I welcome all those initiatives that are fighting for this group of populations that are very vulnerable not only because of their life gains but also because of receiving them that are not what they should be. So, the Retirement Union of Croatia and Matica of the pensioners of Croatia agreed to make these changes for 2020, respecting the situation in which we are, these agreements took place in early December of last year and there was no time for the COVID epidemic, and I think that you are the leading man of the first and most famous retirement parties should nevertheless support those legislative amendments and additions to the Law on Voluntary Health Insurance adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, not only because of this small amount but what is much more important, and what you are proposing in this legislative proposal, therefore, is the indexation of income censorship of every irregular year, the harmonisation of the censorship, you have proposed to be from the beginning of each year, in this, in amendments and addition to the laws of last week, so, the harmonisation of the HZZ implements on the basis of the data of the National Statistics Office until 30th of November of the year. You said exactly, so, the amount of income censorship hasn't been changed since 2004, changes occurred that in one period of time pensions grew a little faster and then a large number of pensioners were left without free supplemental health insurance. So now, these amendments and additions to the law have been found a permanent mechanism that monitors and harmonizes these circumstances so that there are no more absurd situations, and then there is more loss than gain for this part of the retirement population. In these challenging times, the government tried to respond, although, in the first place, the security of the public health system and the health security of our fellow citizens, but in the first package worth 30 billion kuna, it contained a unscathed delay in public giving to tax bonds with difficulties, for 3 months with the possibility of 3 months of extension, and this included contributions to pension and health insurance, the April package is 8.5 billion kuna, therefore, which can be used by employers who do not fire workers. So, in this time I still think that at the time of the COVID epidemic where significantly reduced budget revenues are, where unfortunately many employees remain without their jobs, that you should somehow feel and send a message that you are here primarily for retirement and support, although you are not fully satisfied, but somehow I have gained the impression, yet this is pre-election time, so you might get negative points from the SDP if you would support amendments and additions to the Law on Supplemental Health Insurance proposed by the Government of the Republic, because I really don't see any valid reason why you didn't support it, with a tendency to disappear, but that you as head of HSU, the most recognizable retirement parties in the Republic, continue to fight for even greater standards, even better standards, than those you have now proposed. Here, therefore, by respecting the overall situation, the HDZ Representatives' Club cannot support the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Voluntary Health Insurance Act, which is proposed by a respected colleague, Silvano Hrelja. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203207	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the promoter, we will be told by the esteemed Silvano Hrelja, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203208	Dear fellow Cellic, I see that your party closely follows the Facebook announcements, informs them by the lady who is now ashamed of this proposal and may be ashamed to enter this procedure, and you must know as a long-standing parliamentary representative that this bill has the legitimacy of 50,753 signatures of full-time citizens, that the ladies swear to represent 300 thousand people, each of whom is a legal entity for themselves and leads politics, an association policy towards a party who is in a certain municipality or a certain city, so there is no political profile and they are members of associations, members of all parties. Forget that story. I can't support something from the sense of responsibility of a representative who's been speaking from this pay phone for 18 years, and behind the proposal is 50,752 signatures. Do you know what the legitimacy is in 50,753 signatures? You want me to support something that instead of 313 increases and 400 kunas, to support something that is 47 and 61 kuna, respectively? So what principle are we talking about? You, Mr. Celić, with Mr. Dulibic, first of all, need to see why this system works for you, and the state has not paid its obligations for these categories that you have said since 2013 to this day in the amount of billions and 100 million kuna, and the additional health insurance you currently have plus on the jury account, the special jury account of the CNB of 607 million kuna. Mr. Celic, just so you know, what you're doing with supplemental health insurance is subject to criminal charges, which is what I said today, a message to the new state attorney to investigate. Who has the right, who has the right to spend money on those who pay 70 kuna each month, on the spot he doesn't pay the state. Who has the right to take that money? They didn't use, they used others, they needed to pay the state for the others, and they didn't. Hey, imagine, that's what this is about. It's about the system, people who don't know anything about this got involved, I came in, you might be a doctor and you're a doctor and a quality doctor and I'm taking your hat off for it. But don't look at the social security system. This is about problems that need to be solved. It's about protecting poor citizens. Real poverty in the Republic of Croatia 2,485.00 kn. The ladies who got involved on their own because they were right for you, in this process they first asked for everything to be settled to 2,485.00 kn, so if that's the principle that they chose 2,485.00 kn for the person who lives alone, then I take their hat off this pay phone. Ma'am, you're more successful than I am. I'm voting for it right now, but not social dumping. This is a classic example of social dumping and the embellishment of associations in some political, political games or subpolitical laps. Why? I have no idea. Valda because Mr. Bandic is happy to pay for the retirement games of a million kuna in Cavtat. Maybe that's why. I'm not getting into it, I don't care. I don't care why someone went into the process and insulted 50753 citizens' signatures, and among them is a large number from Međimurje, Varazdin, members and members of Matica and the Union of pensioners of Croatia, so their members. And now trumpets honk over the facebook profile, over, over the network that the Temple is supposed to support it. Support social dumping. Oh, no, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203209	We have two replicas, the first respected representative of the Sagar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203210	Thank you, Vice President HS. Dear colleagues, when you mention a billion and 100 million kuna, it's an extremely large amount of money. That it's true, that it only confirms the HZZO report. On page 5, report for 2018. the following, the number of valid policies in supplementary health insurance on 31.12.2018. is 2 350 148 with 1 676 787 persons themselves paying an additional health insurance policy, and for 673 361 policy insurance policy holders should be paid on the burden of the state budget. Once again, the policy should be paid on the state budget, on the burden of the state budget. That's what the HZZO report says. So he doesn't pay her, he doesn't pay her, the state doesn't pay her, and there's money in the account. How come?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203211	The Honorable representative of the Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203212	Dear colleague Sagar, to write, it is a kind of recognition that the state should... When the state writes the state should pay, it means it didn't pay. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Since 2013, when the system was set up on these bases a single price of 70.00 kn of additional health insurance policies that rest on solidarity among generations because otherwise ours would be older than 60. paid at the price from 180,00 to 350,00 kn insurance policy and you as the ruling party would have to protect this as a pupil of your eye because the elderly cannot pay you any 180,00 or 350,00 kn. This and the isolation of a public insurance company in order not to reach this debt state according to the categories it covers would have to be your first, first assignment and you would have to go to the polls with it, even if I lost the election, you would have to go to the polls and accept these censorships.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203213	Thank you very much. The next replica of the esteemed representative of Cellic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203214	Dear colleague Hrelja, it is evident that there is a conflict between these retirement associations with you and now it is a question of who brought the cake to whom, it will be seen in these upcoming elections, but I will point out again. So that these differences in increases by 47,00 and 61,00 kn are agreed only for 2020. What I still think that you should have supported it is an indexation that is contained in both your legal proposal and I reaffirm that we live in the time of the COVID epidemic. You fought for about 3850 pensioners related to Royal Insurance, I supported it, and I would support it again, and that's a good thing you did, but you said on that occasion that you would support government projects related to the pension population and, in this context, I believe that you should support the amendments and additions of the Voluntary Health Insurance Act proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203215	The Honorable representative of the Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203216	I told you, Mr. Cello, that I would support it if you would accept these censorships. But for the crumbs from the retirement table after 15 years. I'm never ready to vote, and it obliges me, you know, I don't know how you'd react, if you'd gathered your party if it had raised 50,000 signatures to increase the censorship of 313.00 and 400,00 kn, I don't know on the basis of which political principles you would then vote for 47,00 and 61,00 kn. Come on, please prove to me this political principle by accepting the dumped offer. And secondly, Silvano Hrelja, 18. The best projects are realised in collaboration with retired leaders of pension societies. Reimbursement of pensioners' debt and addition from 4 to 27% without which the pension was smaller, along with them. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203217	Thank you. The next should be the essence of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns and Independent Representatives Željko Glasnović and Zlatko Hasanbegovic and should be spoken by a respected representative of Hrvoja Zekanovic, who is not, loses his right to speak, and will be the next to speak the respected representative of Peđa Grbin on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203218	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State. Me, when we're discussing this law, we don't care at all about some kind of argument and its existence behind the retirement associations. I am interested in the discussion of this law by the people to whom this law applies and I am interested in the figures or financial calculations behind it. And the people behind this law and to whom this law applies are our grandparents and grandparents who have worked for years for minimum pensions, and today the state unfortunately has to help them in this way to ensure that these minimum pensions are not additionally burdened by additional health insurance. If you compare the proposal submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and adopted last week despite opposition and despite the refusal of the amendment proposed by the opposition, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has proposed an increase of 45 to 60 kn approximately. According to the calculation attached to this bill, it will cost $160 million annually. And now watch your math, and not like my colleague Hrelja and I agreed, we don't talk about any integrals, we don't talk about derivations, we're not talking about higher mathematics that's hard to understand for a person who doesn't have any stronger mathematical education, we're talking about subtracting and collecting, multiplying and dividing. The proposal that is before us today and we are now discussing would raise the price of 300 to 400 kn approximately, 300 to 400 kn is how much I understand mathematics, respected colleagues and colleagues, more than 45 to 60 kuna. The government when it proposed that this proposal be rejected, it explained that we cannot accept it because it would cost in 2019. 50 million kuna, 2020. 100 million kuna, these are not my figures, these are the figures that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has given in its opinion. And now I'm asking you, and I was hoping that the Ministry's representative would speak because I would ask him that, please explain to me, how an increase in census of 45 to 60 kn could be more expensive than an increase in census of 300 to 400 kuna? He can't. Dear colleagues and colleagues, he can't. And that simply means that the government lied when she or she explained the bill we sent to the procedure last week or she lied when she refused the proposal sent by her colleague Hrelja. Because if the figure is the same, if 150 million kuna is needed for what a colleague of Hrelja proposes and for what the Government of the Republic of Croatia has proposed, then why, for God's sake, have we not adopted what will far more help our citizens and citizens? Please explain that to me. And you can't explain it. You can't explain simply because the law that voted you last week has been passed solely for the sake of the election and for that alone. You're saying now that we're supposed to vote for an increase of 45 to 60 kn, no matter how we vote for it? Well, it's a common con, it's a common dusting in the eyes. The math we've been told is that it's about 12 thousand people. 12 thousand people who will receive something worth 850 kn annually are not a burden of $160 million for the state budget and cannot be. Take these two numbers, multiply them, and you will see the amounts. And you'll see that the government simply lied and threw dust in the eyes just because before the parliamentary elections come, it wants to show how something like a foll works. Of course the SDP club will support this bill. And last week we supported the amendment sent by the Club of Representatives of HSU, which was more or less consistent with this bill, if that amendment had been adopted, would have supported the bill and I believe that this debate would not be necessary today. But we're not just gonna stop at that. Not only will we support this law today, but when after the election, we have a chance to decide which direction the Republic of Croatia is heading, then we will make this. Not only is this right now to help people who are particularly in the situation of COVID 19 in a difficult situation but because this law provides for mechanisms that will prevent us from coming back to the situation in the future that a decade or no longer is an increased censorship, regardless of the cost of living and the average income of the country's citizens. This law provides for mechanisms for this and therefore needs to be supported. Now let me talk about another problem that is related to additional health insurance. I mentioned that last time I spoke about the Government's bill, I will mention it every time a debate is held in front of the Croatian Parliament on anything that has to do with additional health insurance, which is a violation of the provision. Article 2 The Voluntary Health Insurance Act, which stipulates that all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia are entitled to additional health insurance if insurance is in the mandatory health insurance system. A provision of a law that breaks in two ways. First, by cancelling the policies or refusing to extend the policies to those patients for whom they have been estimated to have been treated too much or to be sick and secondly, in such a way that the entire private health insurance company, in its own conditions, does not want to provide a person over 65 years of age. It's discrimination, respected colleagues and colleagues. So, just because it's discrimination, the government should react but should react and because it's not only discrimination but it's also against the law and the worst of all is that private insurance ensures that they only provide healthy people, sick and old people with whom? They're pushing HZZO because there's no profit on them at the discretion of private health insurance companies. I know why the former health minister, who I've written about this problem several times, didn't want to react. Because both the family and the family were connected to a private health insurance company. That's a fact. I was hoping the new minister would have more hearing, but he's gone. And yet we are in a situation that the government of the Republic of Croatia is the worst, the government that owns the HZZO, the founder of the HZZO, which, if the HZZO is in a difficult financial position, has negative consequences, not only tolerates but also encourages, and encourages them to, when you warn them, when you provide them with insurance conditions in which black on white it says they are discriminated over 65 years old, they say it's okay, there's no violation of the law. Dear colleagues and colleagues, once again, we support this bill, this is a better solution, a more systematic solution than the one proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and at the same time we call on the Government of the Republic of Croatia to introduce order into the DHA. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203219	Thank you very much. Next, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSU-SNAGA-independent MPs and New Politics, the respected representative Tomislav Žagar will speak. Here you go. I'm sorry. Now, a respected representative of Silvano Hrelja has come forward on behalf of the promoter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203220	Dear Comrade Grbin, please hold for a moment. Yes, not that we will do this when we are first able to increase these censorships because the government's obligation is to fight poverty in 2014-2020 under the Strategy against Poverty. The document states that an important segment of the fight against poverty is the availability of healthcare through an increase in the price for the release from payment of the PDO policy for the poor. We've got a lot of guys like that. Three quarters of what the state pays are pensioners, pensioners who do not stop this public insurance company, and the Croatian government does not take care of the public insurance company, although its founder, they are condemned to pay market prices or be without DZO, market prices are like in Slovenia 35 euros per month, from 180 kuna to 350 kuna. Our request and signatures of 50,753 signatures are not only against increasing the policy to increase the censorship but is for the independence of the public insurance company, that each party, and only two sides, are citizens who meet their payment obligations of 70 kuna per month and the other side is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which has remained in debt since 2013 to this day for a billion and 100 million kuna. Almost 2 billion since 2009 until today she has not paid for what she protects, for this 520,000 currently, which is in your bill of law that protects and pays for the policy. You understand what it means, 2 billion is due. How strong that system is with a million and 670,000 fuses when it lasted. And he lasted why? Because the funds of those who pay each month are also used for those for which the state has not paid. You know, I got involved in this in 2013.When we were supposed to change the system, 2016.When the policy was to increase on the application of the queen I got involved in this to get to know every detail in this insurance and all the problems, and I'm proud of that, I'm proud of this bill. Don't disrespect HSU, don't glorify the self-proclaimed representatives of pension societies because they represent only themselves, not their members, and not their needs. I ask you and the first thing not only censors, but the first thing when we come to power is the isolation of the public insurance company and each side will pay what is required and if it is necessary then the price of the policy for these citizens will be reduced to 55 kuna, and not that you will be careful, you can nod your head as much as you want, but every citizen, I personally who pay for it, I have over 60, but I have long paid for the public policy insurance policy, I have a contract with them. How come the right of someone in the ministry to pay on the basis of my insurance for what the state didn't meet? Where'd he get it? And that's what's happening. If it wasn't for my colleague Grbin because I didn't come up with the data for 2019 and 2020 as much as the transfer of the Ministry of Finance to the DHA, that it wasn't those 150 million double purposes to count on for what was to be paid and as a great benefit for the pensioners, as a great gift to the pensioners before the elections, it could be, that these 150 counts both as a debt before and as a charity of the Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203221	We've got two replicas. He's the first respected representative of the Bulls.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203222	I would like to ask you to comment as a motionary, I have signed to discuss this as soon as possible, when my colleague Celic says that I have sugared or how I oversold my speech. However, all this time since the crisis the opposition has been constructive, everything the opposition has accepted. And those who object to us that we have adopted absolutely nothing, anything that is in the contribution of our citizens, any measure, mainly examples of the bank being put on loans and interest by the moratorium of the bank. It's like we sugared what Slovenia did, and in this case, mathematics is clear, citizens said, pensioners are 50,000 you mention. And there's nothing weird about it here, fellow Cell. It's just weird how you're from some noble initiative just pulling some kind of political facts. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203223	The answer of the esteemed representative of Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203224	Well, colleagues Bulj, you have a special way of presenting this, your attitudes and it's nice anyway, and perhaps Mr. Celic said so, figuratively, that you like to sugary. I mean, I have a problem with sugar, so I don't like that expression, but everything's fine. All right, we understand each other, and it's good for you to say it, but the bottom line is your replica is to me why a good proposal that goes in favour of the citizens wouldn't accept the position. After so many internships in the Croatian Parliament, as soon as that happened, the second day I wrote a proposal to declare it, the day to declare itself a holiday of democracy in the Republic of Croatia, that a good opposition proposal concerning 150, 200 thousand citizens and the poorest, was accepted by the ruling majority. The way things are going, I'll hardly live to see it, but either It would be good for me to experience it. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203225	Thank you very much. The next replica is respected MP Leakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203226	Thank you, Vice President. I'm sure Vice President Reiner knows better than I do that neither salt nor sugar, nor salt or sugar, right? So, colleagues of Hrelja, except that those two are no good, neither is it worth it, is it not, that it is saddened that we have come to Croatia in this situation to argue in HS about who better represents, who gives, who takes, who actually uses who here in some way is actually using the electoral breakthrough. Except that it is, therefore, a bill that needs to be supported in any case, this is not only about helping the poorest citizens but also about achieving the fundamental human right, which is the right to health, i.e. the right to health care that the state, the social state of which Croatia is defined and what we all stand for should actually be. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203227	The answer of the esteemed representative of Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203228	Dear fellow Members, there is really no need to compete over the corruption, to scold about who has the right to represent. HSU is here, the 18th year parliamentary party thanks to the votes of Croatian citizens in the elections, and not only of the pensioners but also of their children in the fight for their rights. I'm a proud representative all those years. And I repeat to you this, we are a political creation whose father and mother are the Union of Retired Croatians and Croatian Retired Mothers. They created us because they couldn't reach their goals of debt recovery, I am grateful to these honorable people and proud that I got the chance to fight for the pensioners, which doesn't mean that someone among them has the right to dictate the terms of a political party. how it will work and how it will act politically. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203229	Thank you very much. Next will be the Club of Representatives of HSU, SNAGA, Independent Representatives and New Politics, on behalf of which will speak the respected representative Tomislav Žagar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203230	Thank you, Vice President of HS, Your Honor, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us the law of HSU and colleagues Hrelje, which is simply a better law than the one the government has proposed, which was adopted here in HS. So this law is better. Why is it better? So because we can't accept the fact that we in the Republic of Croatia admit that the poorest citizens, whom there are many, especially pensioners, can survive with 2,000 kunas without problems. It's a simple fact, and that's where we can't get away from it. So HSU collected over 50,000 signatures, a colleague of the Hrelja said. I was an active participant in this gathering myself, and we went to the pensioners' associations, I heard their comments, they all agreed that even those who come out of this censorship, who doesn't even bother that they need.../incomprehensible/... the weakest help, I apologize. So, it's about that many in the Republic of Croatia with low pensions can't pay extra health insurance, or if they pay it at the end of the year, together with a RTV subscription it's one less pension. Instead of getting a Christmas card, they lose one pension. A very important thing, when we talk about this topic is a public insurance policy, so HZZO and the whole story, if we look at it the same context can be seen like this. The elderly population, especially pensioners, is more exposed to diseases than poverty, is also exposed to diseases. So they're a risk insurance group, health insurance. And if they, if the censorship increases too high, they will fall out of the payment obligation, and they, according to the government's proposal, are actually guaranteeing the survival of the public insurance company. In other words, the public insurance company will not then have people paying for the policy, so ultimately, its survival will be at stake. The poorest citizens cannot ensure the survival of public insurance, the government cannot, must not call. When we talk about the Government's proposal, we will point out once again why we were against this proposal, because so little increase in censorship, for a single man it was 61 kuna, for a family member 47 kuna, it is not enough, and what has most startled us and what we warned the government representatives of then, although the proposal has passed 3 Ministries has in which way reached the figures of 150 million kuna and 200 thousand citizens that will be covered by this bill. No math can support that. If we look at the HZMO report, here for March 31st, it's actually a similar situation with April 31st, 30th. The largest number of pensioners, nearly 200,000 have a pension of 2000.00 to 2.500,00 kn. So it seems to us that the proposal of the government law has just been to delinquent these people, that most of the pensioners from 2000,00 to 2,500,00 kn do not enter into this story, in this story of free supplementary health insurance, and we cannot possibly accept the fact that they have the resources that are enough for theirs, for their lives. So it seems to us that this, in this way, the government has elegantly deceived the citizens by saying that 200,000 of them will be released from paying additional health insurance because the calculation that the HSU Council has been doing and the associations have admitted it is only talking about 13,000 and some citizens who would come into this situation. And indeed she, the argument that is set here, has repeatedly been repeated today, and the colleague of Hrelja is when the bill has been rejected, this one that has no money, and right about the amount even, even somewhere the amount is 150 million kuna for 2 years, suddenly the money has and is said to be, will be secured in the state budget. True, as I recall, the minister when explaining the government's legal proposal said that, that Minister Maric was oral, so verbally promised that the funds would be found. We still haven't, we don't see the rebalancing, the rebalancing today was on, at the government, we don't see whether these funds will really be secured in the state budget, so the funds amounting to 150 million kuna or slightly more. What is unacceptable in this proposal that the government has given is a low increase in the censorship it can already tomorrow, let's say, and if elections are announced tomorrow, the pensioner can happen if he is a member of the electoral commission, at that moment he falls out of censorship and must pay for additional health insurance. In other words, pensioners are forced to dance on a wire, and at any moment they can fall out of, in fact, the measure of free supplementary health insurance or that the state pays for them. When it comes to this legislative proposal, Hrelja's colleague stressed this, the increase in the censorship proposed by HSU in this law is exactly half the wage growth in the last 16 years. So it's not, it's not just like that, it's a certain amount, but it's marked by the average half of the salary growth in the last 16 years. how the census hasn't changed. These censorships set to that level would allow many pensioners to get through their retirement days more easily, to go to a doctor and to survive more easily in an age that is otherwise difficult, and I say especially because they are exposed, exposed to diseases. A fellow Hrelja, as I recall, when this legislative proposal was proposed, was long awaited by the government's reply and said what is here today in one of the replicas said, and even if the government had accepted this proposal, turned it into its own, directed it into, into, here in the assembly, and if it had been adopted, we would have been pleased with that. But in this way bidding, so rounding up to 2,000,00 kn percent for a single man, which is 3.1%, and then also with a 3.1% increase in censorship per family member from 1.516.00 to 1.563.00, you can actually see that there was no more serious, more serious calculation than there was a chance that 2,000,00 kn would be enough to save 200 000, which is, therefore, a completely unrealistic number of people from, than paying for additional health insurance. Finally, colleagues and colleagues, I ask you to support this legislative proposal. Of course, I have no illusions that, yes, and the law that the Government, which was adopted, which the government proposed before this law was a pre-election law, that it was only a pre-election promise with these over-inflated figures, but this law is too serious, it concerns too many citizens of the Republic and those of the most vulnerable and vulnerable in Croatian society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203231	Now, again on behalf of the promoter, the respected representative of Silvano Hrelja will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203232	Your Honor, don't mind, but I'm fighting every argument for my law and don't save this precious time, you may hear something very interesting, perhaps that changes your way of thinking, etc. Yes, it's true that so far, my colleague Sagar is at least five or six years old. The public insurance business was based on the payment of the poorest, those who were objectively unable to do so. Look, this chart says that the total number of shelves, this green one, is going down. The total number of people whose government pays, this, this, this bottom line, is falling even more, and the blue curve is growing, the number of agreed policies. So, in fear of their health and those who objectively cannot, objectively, who are poor because they now have under 1.565.00 or have below or kuna above 1.565.00 or kuna over 2,000.00, and for them, the government has now said that they are rich. Before that was 1.516,00-1,939,00 for them she said they were rich, they began to pay their own extra health insurance policy of 840,00 kn per year. That shows this, you can't escape the arguments, you can't. Someone said, a number of people are coming out of Croatia and the number of insurance companies is shrinking, perhaps, but then it wouldn't increase this number of policies for people who pay themselves because they live in fear of their own health, for their availability, if they could ic on specialist examinations are poor. So what it says in this law, the legitimacy of this law is the fight against poverty and for HSU, this law is one, only one in the mosaic of organised systematic fight against poverty, in some way in the implementation of HSU what the HDZ or the Government of the Republic of Croatia has committed to implementing the Strategy against Poverty, has not done. So we can't accept that the reason we passed the law last week, COVID 19. We can't. COVID 19 has made citizens, poor citizens, because this is not just a law for pensioners, regardless of what we are HSU, there are poor citizens, unemployed citizens with many decent families, with a lot of family members, with low income censorship, all of them protected, not just pensioners, all of the citizens of low income. COVID 19 does not prevent you from going to specialist examinations other than emergency, COVID 19 not to stay in hospitals, but COVID 19 does not prevent this middle line that pays the most extra health insurance policy to each month with its salary or pension, paying an additional health insurance policy. And that's why there's 607 million extra income on expenditures that you can't and can't use anything else but for the cost of participation in specialist reviews because it says so in the contract with citizens. This insurance, public insurance, because the mix between a contract with citizens for a particular service and the obligation of the state to protect the poorest, it's a mix, there must be rules of the game transparently set and they are not but we have a spill. You know, if you don't think of clearing it up and if you're going to hunt in a blur, then I'm going to end my career as a law enforcement officer because the audit has indicated that I can't waste my resources on purpose and switch from left to right.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203233	We are going to an individual debate and will be the first to speak to the respected representative Mladen Karlic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203234	Thank you, Madam Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. The esteemed colleague Silvano Hrelja, here, your bill of law, since you are a very dear, kind representative, very serious and this proposal is good, may have come at the wrong time here on the constituency benches, but what I would like to say is that somehow your performance was a little too firey, aggressive, theateral even, perhaps pre-election, the law itself is not, he came in time and before but a little bit of a pre-election, I often think that if we don't accept this proposal, that we might get a heart attack or stroke somehow as upset as you seem, but I see that you're joking, but we're doctors, so we're gonna help you if we need to, but somehow we have to take a few facts since it's only good now and everything else that the government has made is bad, not good, it's not good, it's not good, it's not good. First, we must consider that for 2 years there has been a continuous indexation of pensions or pension growth, that is, number 1 which we must consider in order to understand a little situation. Of course, that pension increase then leads to one part of the people being left without free extra insurance. On the other hand, it must be taken into account that the government means, however, in this difficult situation of the crisis, it has taken some measure, so it has increased the censorship by 60 kn, it's not much, but already 60 kn means it reduces your demands by 60 kn or 59 kn, so it's a good purpose and it's helped, it certainly helped one part of the people, is that 10, 15, 20,000, I don't know at this point but it helped. So two things we have, an increase in pensions and an increase in this census means 2,000 kn for a single man and 1563 for a family. On the other hand, what is of the same third importance, it has been established, so the government has determined that a formula will go towards which the censorship will increase each year, so there is no more that this is one-time than every year in the 11th month. HDZ is making a decision to increase, it's the third thing that matters. Secondly, what this year is going to mean is that the government's assessment is that it's going to have a free supplemental insurance and it's going to make 200,000 people, which is the same thing, I'm not 100% sure as I'm not even sure about yours that it needs 100 million, or I don't know, this other thing, that it's going to be maybe 12 to 15 000 kuna, all of these are estimates, so it's not exactly the exact information, so to catch up on it, it's not maybe convenient. If it means 200 000 kn, then it's that 168 million kuna as much as it's supposed to be in the budget, it means that if you multiply by 840 how much it takes for that. So it's not just the pensioners, it's also four, five, six categories of people who are disabled and I don't know, those blood donors and everyone else. What we already said at the end of last year, the union and queen agreed with the Prime Minister, Mr. Plenkovic, here is how to accept this, this beginning of the increase that will then be further. For your proposal, you need to say 100 million kuna, so that's somewhere, what, 120,000 people would be covered by this. But since the pandemic of COVID was declared 19, that we are all aware that this will lead to at least one 25 billion kuna less income, means a lack of money in the state budget, that it will have to be in debt to the state. That what is very important, that, at this point, the Croatian government is taking care of 595 thousand workers to get paid. 595 thousand workers will now be helped by the government to get paid, otherwise they would have lost it. At this point, it's really unacceptable, i.e. it's hard to secure this much more resources to secure this part, but if we take into account that in the last year there were 667 thousand insurance companies who had the right to supplemental security on the burden of the state and that this year they are increasing, I think we can be satisfied and that this is the beginning of actually solving this problem that exists, which we are aware of, of course, and we would all be aware immediately to increase to 2500 kuna, because let you 2000 and, I don't know, 400 is the threshold of poverty. Who can live with 2400, 2500 or below 3,000 kuna, and that's survival. So in that sense, but I'm saying, given this situation, right now, I think it's just hard to accept. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203235	Thank you. We have two replicas. The first is the respected representative Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203236	Dear colleague. I listened very carefully to my fellow Temple and to you, but what is always forgotten is that from the beginning of 2019. The government and we here voted the law to increase the contribution by 1.5% of health insurance, which is very important that goes into HZZO revenues, which also serves the costs of those who are most needed and all of us, therefore, it is over a billion and 300 million kuna, if not more, therefore it is very important and therefore these surpluses in HZZO of 600 million kuna. .../incomprehensible/...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203237	Dear Representative, Comrade Hrelja, come on, calm down a little, please don't throw yourself out of the bench in an ugly way. The replica of the respected representative Karlic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203238	Here's a thank you, colleague. What's important is that.../incomprehensible/... really not just, no, this is one of the only moves that is, but the government has to take care of a lot more and a lot of broader problems.../incomprehensible/... social categories, to satisfy, to help our citizens, because this is just one small segment, when you look at 70 kuna, and a lot more than billions of kuna is needed to ensure a better life for our citizens, especially those socially endangered. And these are all, each of these is actually a rock that would contribute. I know that Mr. Hrelja may be the most important, but surely there are many bigger problems that we in Croatia have to help, and Croatia is working on.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203239	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203240	Thank you, Vice President. Dear counterpart Karlic, one thing to stress, although it is repeatedly mentioned, this legislative proposal applies most to pensioners because other categories they have free of charge, they are not subject to censorship. And another thing, when you say that this at a bad time came this proposal, it came in May last year, that's the problem. It was only in October that a negative response came to the government, it was time for this proposal, for it to be considered, for the government to accept it, even if the government accepted it as its proposal. I agree with you that the government had good intentions with its legal proposal, but you know what it says, the road to hell is filled with good intentions.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203241	Dear Representative Karlic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203242	So I think it's very important that the government has brought in initially, that it's actually going to increase the censorship, that it's taking measures, that they coordinate each year, and that in time it means, surely, there's a stronger coordination, everything depends on what moment we're going to get out of this crisis, when it's going to improve... I don't think there was this coronavirus infection that would be much better today and that we could think about a much larger amount of raising this censorship and, of course, then certainly a lot less of those people who would be on this poverty threshold... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203243	The next one will speak again on behalf of the promoter, the respected representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203244	Dear colleague Karlic. Don't worry about my health, the characteristics should be of every parliamentary representative to defend his views with a lot of zeal. If she's ready to burn for her attitudes, I'm saying this from the heart, I'm not raising anyone and I'm saying what the numbers show. What the numbers show. In 2016, the state remained short of supplemental health insurance of 203 million kuna. In 2017, the country remained short of additional health insurance of 124 million kuna. In 2018, the state overpaid 34 million kuna, so it gave an extra one, but in the meantime it reduced the number of insurance companies by more than 200 thousand, it fell out because of censorship. When I'm having Mrs. Devereaux. Peric says it is due to payments from contributions, these are nonsensics, people. A million and, a billion and 400 million kuna citizens pay additional health insurance, each day 3 and a half million kuna sits at the expense of additional health insurance. Every day. Officers, any pensioners, any workers. Who doesn't pay? In the last 12 years, the state has remained short 2 billion kuna for additional health insurance. I don't have any data for 2019 and 2020, I don't know. That's why I doubt that 150 million kunas are meant to comply with the government's commitments to the supplemental of last year or this year. I don't know what's in the budget right now, I don't know. Don't doubt what I'm saying, sit with me, I'll show you everything on paper, these are official tables, these are charts, these are reports. These are reports, no memories, no feelings. No feelings, no facts, no numbers. Let's talk about it that way and let's say that the government has made its role that, in relation to the strategy that this government has adopted, the fight against poverty has done something. Did she do something? Is it £47.00 to increase this censorship's contribution enough to fight poverty or not? Is 61,00 kn enough or not? Dal is right about these 50,000 citizens, members of associations, as well as all other citizens who signed or the government who offered crumbs and who said, well, you see, it's still moving, so you see, it's still moving. Why didn't it start at 300 or 400, then install the mechanism for those who had dropped the last 5 years. will be re-covered by supplementary health insurance? Because the government doesn't care because the system rests on paying the poorest because if they don't pay, if this number hasn't been reduced by 200,000, then the state should give another 200 million kuna a year to protect these categories. And here it's said that other categories, other categories don't have censorship. There are no categories for which the state pays and which have censorship, only these two categories of income, others do not. Neither voluntary blood donors, no matter how much they receive, no students, no students, no disabled, no other categories that are less. They are not subject to income census, only to workers and pensioners, those who live by their work or their past work. That's the problem. That's the problem. But if you don't want to understand the language of numbers and the language of arguments, I can't help it, but I have the right to speak with a colleague, Karlic, with a lot of passion, and to stand up for what I've been doing all these years. And as for my health, we can go together to the coast of Sava, there on, on, on a rash and run off so slowly, it doesn't take much, but also talk about all this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203245	Thank you. We have, we have one replica of the esteemed representative, Karlic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203246	Thank you. Oh, Mr. Hrelja, I agree with one part, I'm glad that you're so energetic, that you fight like this and that really every MP should in his field fight so hard for our citizens. But this is a small segment. I couldn't possibly accept you saying that the government doesn't care, that the government doesn't care, and the government is taking care of 595 000 workers now, giving them a salary they wouldn't get, 595 000, that's over 2 billion kunas must now be provided at this point to pay Croatian workers to survive. And you're talking here about maybe some, and I'm not going to say 100,000 or so now, which maybe 70.00 kn or not monthly. So I think that I understand that this is a problem and that this is slowly to be resolved and that it's important, but at this point when you have 600,000 people who won't get a job, who won't get paid and that there's no government to provide it, I think it's a much, much bigger problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203247	The Honorable representative of the Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203248	Dear colleague Karlic, let me remind you. This law is addressed to an emergency procedure with the signatures of colleagues who later gave support, 58 gave support to this law in May last year. In May of last year, Mr. Maric, the finance minister flourished with happiness because we have a full budget, people remember, don't make me replace the thesis, thesis, replace the thesis with this situation now, this one hit us all. And I did, did you hear from me one word of an accident or that I said I didn't appreciate what the government is doing for the unemployed? You're not and you'll never hear it, but it's not, it's not the same story, it's not the same story. This is a story from last year that was supposed to be solved.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203249	The next individual debate was supposed to be a respected representative of Gordan Maras, he's gone, he's losing his right to speak, so he's going to speak to respected representative Karolina Leakovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203250	Dear Vice President, my dear colleague, I thank you. Here's a chance to say something and in general about the health system that started to work, so after much has been stopped by the COVID-19 epidemic or the coronary crisis, and we'll only actually see how in relatively, I won't say peace-doping but still slightly different conditions our health administration headed by the minister is dealing with the consequences of this health crisis. As it has been so far, we have seen that in all those countries that have a public health system, and we are one of those, so that we have inherited from the former system and that we have not been able to break down despite many attempts, so in the past 30 years. and in healthcare introduce the principles of commercialisation, so we see this through these private or such voluntary insurance companies, that both in health and in education and in some other activities, it is actually a market principle that dictates who will be able to treat, who will be able to educate and so on, we see in fact that our health system is much more resistant than we could possibly assume. Of course, you have rightly warned that, in fact, public health insurance is in a way financed by an abundance of those who have at least and in this context are indeed being represented and represented, but also by those who act as executive authority today or in two months' time by someone else, we must ask whether it is a system that is sustainable or we will still pump up and ask that those who have the least contributions not solidarity but actually if we look more than, but those who have much more. I believe, therefore, that one of the main roles of the state is and should actually be to provide health, health and health services on the principles of solidarity that we talked about today, but here is the opportunity to mention this word here, all of our inhabitants independently, and something about it was said by a colleague of the Grbin on behalf of the SDP Club, so whether it is about being young and not using or being young and not actually using health care services and then going into private health insurance because these old people or those who have certain health problems actually are financing this public insurance. Of course we all, I'd say almost God-fearingly pay those 70 kunas every month because we're afraid if we end up in a hospital and we need a health care service that she won't actually have the right to a health care service that's not in the set of those basics, which is really rudimentary services I'd say in relation to what we used to have. So, we have to pay additional health insurance and there is no dispute about it, but it is really a question whether those who have the least, who live on the edge of poverty must pay in this way if the censorship is crossing only a few kunas. We also see today how the budget is rebalanced, which we will hopefully soon see here in the Croatian Parliament looking for solidarity and in relation to public sector employees. So also in the health sector, in the health care system and in education, whether the burden of crisis has been solidified as if we have forgotten that in fact these two systems are, of course, along with others such as the police or civil protection, and thus contributed greatly to the fact that this crisis is being tackled in the right way. Therefore, I would not only glorify the government's political decisions here, I would not put an emphasis on it at all, but I would say that the health crisis and the favourable epidemiological situation now have the opportunity to enjoy precisely because citizens and citizens were responsible, but also because, despite the efforts of many previous ministers, despite their incompetence, despite their intention to say privatise or commercialise a good part of health services, we have managed to ensure that the health system in Croatia remains still, let's say so, on healthy feet. In this context, I, too, and your bill of law, see, in fact, as another assurance that the health system remains public, that it remains available to everyone and that, therefore, I can also enjoy all citizens and citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203251	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, the esteemed representative Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203252	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, I very much appreciate your debate of colleague Leakovic for one reason, not that we are political like-minded, we are not, but I just want to, I think we agree on a lot of things, but I just want to say something to you. What you said was true, but despite this strength and public health system and additional health insurance were two perfiduous announcements of the purchase of an additional health insurance policy, and of those people who pay for their own money is being overrun for the payment of services that everyone has made. You understand? And despite the fact that these people regularly pay $1,407,000,000 a year, an increase in the supplementary health insurance policy is required. Why? It's just so it'll spill even more. Why? Every time you look for an increase in both 2016 and 2018 and 2019 from then ministers, there has been an aggressive campaign of private insurance companies on the public health system, on a public insurance company offering cheaper policies for young and healthy ones, and the public insurance company should remain older, old and sick. They won't, look, private insurance companies work, violate the constitutional principle of equality of citizens, make no offer for insurance over 60 years old. They have to give it, 300 kuna, 200 kuna, they have to give it. They can't turn people away after years of life, which they do. But I'm sorry, I don't want to offend anyone, but the Ministry of Health on this issue comes to terms with the continuity of people from private insurance, and I'm an advocate like you, solidarity among generations, as a fundamental principle on which the developed Europe, which preserved both public health systems and pension systems based on solidarity among generations, because they are never all sick, never doing all the costs, and those of our young people who signed support for this law were aware that they were helping both on the same conditions, under the same conditions, at the price of 70 kuna, all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia had access to a health care service or have additional health insurance. Isn't that the wealth of a society? Are we of those who regularly pay for what the state does not pay? Are we allowed to allow it to be in a position of opposition, whether in association, or in a political party? We are breaking the laws, because the Voluntary Health Insurance Act defines an additional health insurance policy as the intended separation of citizens precisely for certain services in health care which now do not exist during Covid-19 or are in the least possible scope. So, people, give me any valid reason why they wouldn't do this at this higher level, at a level almost to the poverty line. Is there a greater reason, was there in May 2018, when this law went into procedure with the signature of an appropriate number of MPs, in an emergency procedure, that it existed then? I'm not talking about right now. Let's not mix things up. Was there a reason? It's not. And no one had the right to interfere with this. No one. Not by yourself, not by Mr. Bandic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203253	Thank you. Next individual debate, distinguished representative Tomislav Žagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203254	Thank you, Vice President HS. Dear colleagues and colleagues, dear secretary of state, allow just a few more words regarding this bill, it seems to me that it is important to pronounce them. In fact, the Prime Minister, Mr. Plenkovic, has repeatedly expressed contempt for all populists here in the parliamentary speaker. Unfortunately, I must conclude that this legislative proposal that the government proposed some time ago and adopted in HS has actually put Prime Minister Plenkovic on the table because we have repeatedly stressed that it is also the number of insurance companies that will cover the government's proposal, which is not correct. Here, this bill is far better, rests on real figures, has real foundations and is right when you talk about changing thesis. So, when the bill came to the Parliament, there was no crisis, there was money, there was a full state register, it was said, there was no money. Now that it's a crisis, it's being adopted a lot, a law that's much less demanding, but it's being faked that it's going to be about as difficult as this bill is today as we have and you say it's going to be for 200 thousand people. There is no other way to find out, we cannot take away the impression that it is cheap populistism and that in fact the legal proposal adopted by the government does not correspond to the truth and will not benefit most of the poor Croatian citizens. But one other thing, one dimension I'd like to emphasize. When we look at the HZZ report, and it's right there, there's a key thing. Given this crisis that has hit the Republic of Croatia, we can expect the situation to become even more complicated. In all age groups, be careful, in all age groups unemployed in HZZ, women are ahead of them. In a 54-59-year-old group, that is, our future pensioners, the most women there are. They don't have enough, they won't have enough work experience, they will, their pensions will be small and many of them will fall out of this censorship that the government has proposed and adopted in HS. This census would save those women. Of course, not just women, but I say, in all age groups on HZZ, women are ahead of women. And the other thing, family pensions, here's HZMO data, the secretary of state must know them. In the 2000-2500 kuna group, nearly 50,000 family pensions. In a 1,000-year-old group, I'm sorry in the 1500 to 2000 kuna groups another 31 thousand. So 80,000 family pensions. Do you know in rural areas who is the beneficiary of family pensions? Well, it's the women. The moment they retire and the ones who got up every morning at 5:00 a.m. at work, some of them got up at 4:00 a.m., they did a job, they retired, you know what they had to do? They have to say I'm giving up my pension. I'm taking 70% of my husbands, whoop, crossing the census and still paying by then, according to this censorship, she didn't pay by family member, but the moment she takes her husband's pension, she crosses the censorship 70% and pays for additional health insurance. Is that fair? It is this legal proposal that seeks to correct injustices, that the poorest do not carry the burden of health insurance because everyone has the right to health, even the poorest, and are the poorest at the end of the day. And just as the president of the Retired Association in Slatina told them, he said, "I should take three treatments a year, but they told me I couldn't, we only have one or two, I don't know. He's not the only one, he said it was his case, there's a lot of cases of people where they can't get therapy because he doesn't have enough money. The health system is piled up with many problems, only now and after this crisis will we see, but these are things, these movements could have been, they could have been, they could have been, they could have been, they could have been, we could have said, symptoms and the health system. We regret that the ruling did not, they did not see it, we are still hoping, until the vote that this would change, it would be extremely important for this legislative proposal and for the future of these pensioners who are on HZZ today and for the future of our pensioners who are paying additional health insurance today to adopt this legislative proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203255	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, finally, imported... Excuse me, sir, here's your distinguished representative, Leakovic, the replica. [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203256	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Žagar, yes, you have warned of a problem concerning women and poverty and are not told with the full right that poverty in age has a female face and that is indeed true when it comes to being unfair, not unfair, but being discriminated against because in the event of the death of a partner, let's say we have to choose between whether or not to receive our pension or to receive a family pension and then, of course, in that way, we give up some of what we have earned and, of course, some of what we have been paying in the pension and health fund for years. Therefore, I am sure that this bill, as well as some other bill proposals proposed by HSU in this context, would concern women in particular. It seems to me that both in the Parliament and in society and in all parties, we are very much calling for gender equality, for women, for that we should encourage women and men's equality, when it comes to concrete laws, about pension laws, about health insurance and so on, women on the labour market, then I don't see that it's actually being translated into politics, so it's very important to me that you and this aspect gave an emphasis. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203257	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203258	Dear colleagues Leakovic, of course, all research and data show that women are less paid in Croatian society. And not only in Croatian society, but it is expressed with us and precisely because of these small salaries, they later have fewer pensions and then they come into the situation that they have to choose. It's usually women, and it's exactly the same facts. This shows that women are less paid because they have to choose the most often 70% of their husband's pension that is larger than this pension. It's the same thing, I didn't mention it in the debate, it happens when in rural areas it's like, why is it that some doctors say, it's usually women who live longer and the same time the censorship is divided into two, the spouses of the moment the spouse dies, the most often I say male family member, the woman stays alone, now it's no longer divided into two, but she automatically crosses the censorship. The costs are the same, the heating, the electricity, everything and I say that this legislative proposal is also concerned, and the equality of women in the Croatian society that are exposed, so here lately is more and more violence.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203259	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, the finally respected representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203260	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I thank you all from the bottom of my heart for discussing this law. I thank all those MPs, and there are 58 of them, and between them and 14 of those who, in the parliamentary majority who have stopped, have signed support for this law, as well as those 50,753 signatures by citizens of all ages to support this law. I'm sorry the government didn't see it, I'm very sorry, for one reason the citizens of the Republic of Croatia need it. And exactly, I stand behind those words that I said I would support any government project if it made sense and if it was in certain, in some normal frames, and not in the dumped frameworks, it didn't have to be as much as we asked, it could have been 100,00 kn less, but not 47,00 kn and 61,00 kn. You could have taken this law and prescribed it when they already told me that the mechanism in this harmonisation law was good. You could, you could have taken it, you could've taken this bill freely and the word "government" would make it better and more conductive. You could have, but you didn't. Rather, some actors have joined in calling today HSU representatives as well as some MPs for why they did not support 47,00 or 51,00 kn increase. Gentlemen, that's not how it works. Politics, our citizens see it as very bad, some have an odium, an odium towards this job and all, but I want to wear a barrier of honorable MPs who help their citizens, and that's why I'm going to stand up for these, for these processes. And you know, those who call me today that in May last year when the bill was sent, they supported this law, I'm telling you that we would have protests together and today we would have these censorships. I am responsible for saying this, but they did not want to paint because they think that the National Council for Retired and Older Persons is stronger than the Croatian Parliament, that they have the right to all dictate to politicians what to do and that politicians are on the bot, that they have to listen to them. Politicians in HS, parliamentary deputies come out every 4 years. in the elections, it is known exactly how many preferential votes he has, how much support the citizens have, have the right and the obligation to listen to all the citizens and all the associations, but they have the right and to think about all the documents, about all the acts that the government has adopted, which this assembly has brought to implement. The strategy against poverty is the government's document, the document of the parliament, it must be respected, it must be brought to life, it is a dead letter on paper. This, bearing this bill of law, would be the first of strong and great steps towards protecting citizens from poverty. It's a long way to really protect citizens from poverty. It's a long trip, but every time it starts with the first step. This step is below the needs of Croatian citizens and below the law proposed by the government and adopted by the parliamentary majority last week. This is too small a step in relation to the needs of the citizens, and this may be the point that the leaders of the association of the same consciousness, the same degree of consciousness as their predecessors, whom I worked with as president of HSU, have been excellent. Every proposal we've ever made has been discussed, looked at and said we'd play, who'd be supportive of who. Unfortunately, it's gone, some other leaders, I'm always the same and I'm not arrogant, I'm humbled by all of you. I'm willing to explain to you how things are until they're exhausted. You can laugh at me, you can think I'm a fool, but out of respect for those citizens I'm willing to talk to for days, hours, weeks, whatever you want, here in HS because it's my job. To fight for the high goals, not to sell for a handful of rice, not to sell for one photograph with the prime minister, and we have such situations that when we came to the negotiations in time, some were willing to take pictures with the prime minister. People, enough of this clienteleism, enough selling for small money. Retired people think don't let anyone buy you, you've earned a lot more than you have, and I just want to tell the rulings, don't pretend you're doing something but really do it. Start already in this mandate that is on the verge of fighting poverty because your strategy is a dead letter on paper. Thank you very much, thank you, everyone who participated in the debate and those who disagreed with this because they gave me the opportunity to show both the strength of the arguments and the will to defend my proposal, the bill. It's not the point that we're all like-minded, but the point is that we're discussing the arguments about what is, what's on the table. It is the essence of parliament, it is the essence of parliamentary debate. I'll never get tired of that kind of debate, and for talking about the past I will, I don't want any part of it anymore. It's a waste of time and a waste of energy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203261	Thank you to the distinguished representative of Hrelja. With this, we've exhausted the debate, I'm closing the debate, we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203262	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Voluntary Health Insurance Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 643, Silvano Hrelja's representative is the promoter. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft law amending and supplementing the Voluntary Health Insurance Act, which is not supported by the Government, nor by the parliamentary working bodies, please vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? I find that the result is 51 for, 5 abstentions and 70 against, so the law has not received enough votes and has not been passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203263	The next item is: Proposal for a Law on Transparency of Public Service Costs, first reading, Bill No 658 Proposed by MOST Independent Lists under Article 85. Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the first reading of the law shall apply to the debate on the agenda. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the government delivered an opinion. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? The esteemed representative of Nikola Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203264	Thank you, Vice President. In this assembly session, we have addressed a lot of legislative proposals, most of which were about improving the position of our citizens, but also about fighting for transparency because we consider transparency to be the only tool in the fight against corruption. Only through transparency can we reduce and curb corruption in Croatian society. We have shown this as a club of MOST on many occasions and when we talk about the past of which a colleague spoke before me and there we need transparency. That is why, if you remember in the first one, in the second one, we are calling together the assembly, but while it was still the government of the MOST and HDZ before Bozo Petrov resigned as meeting president, we forced the MPs here to vote on the Archive Law. This is what we wanted to conclude the story of the past, this lustration that everyone calls so much in Croatian society is only possible if we open archives. And that's what we did. We made you vote on it. When the archives were opened, what you did, after MOST came out of the government when the file of some of your high-ranking members was actually Prime Minister Plenkovic's chief advisers, like Vladimir Seks, who turned out to be a co-worker of UDBE means under the code name of Kolega you decided to close the archives here. Today we have a similar attempt. Before you disband this assembly, we want us to, we cannot pass the law, but we can at least direct it to another reading, show the willingness that this act here, which is before us, may be in another assembly or in the new assembly of the Croatian Parliament, has been adopted. It concerns transparency in the costs of public duties. A similar register, because it would be some sort of cost register of Canada and Ireland. I've had several press conferences on this issue of our law when we first referred it to the procedure, and I've shown to the press in the press room on screen what that register looks like in Canada. Things are very simple. Every body for its official, if that's for example. Here we will take the city of Sinj, so the service of the city of Sinj for Mayor Sinja all its expenses are published in that register, everyone is in charge of publishing, the law is actually required, the publication of expenses for their body or institution. And every citizen types the name Sandra Križanac and comes out all her expenses, for each, for each item. So, if it's about a lunch team, the item comes out means lunch, the purpose of why she went with a certain person to that meeting or lunch and the bill that supports that cost. This would make the job and the public much easier for them to question costs but also for journalists. So remember that affair of "spic rat" this former Minister Tolusic, we would know where he was, where he went, whether he was in Zemun or not in Zemun, we wouldn't have this one, that one, we wouldn't have this operation actually SOA, where SOA determined whether it was Minister Tolusic based on the shape of shoes or not, so it would all be, that this now looks funny, but it's not funny, so much would be more transparent and the media and the public would be able to find out based on one of these registers. Therefore, it is all the costs incurred during the conduct of public duty. And when we talk here about the Croatian Parliament, which is hated in the Croatian public, I don't know if you fellow MPs are aware that this is one of the more transparent institutions on this issue because all our expenses are public, publicly published so that this law in that regard, as far as the MPs themselves are concerned, would not change anything too much except that everything would be in one place and parliamentary representatives and mayors and mayors and the other, the other officials. Here, Miro, Mito points out here and the vice president of HS Antu Sanader this probably means, probably thinking about, probably the Split-Dalmatia County and the costs that are happening in Split-Dalmatia County so that, in that sense, there would certainly be an increase in transparency for these bodies, for the counties, county institutions and others. I wouldn't spend your time here, the law is simple, the law doesn't require large funds and actually an application that would be needed to make it very easy. Canada has that, actually established in a way that register or that application is located on the Ministry of Finance's website. I don't suggest that it be arranged in such a way, it can also be on a special website, so the question is just technical, technical implementation, but things are very simple, you shouldn't hire new people because, so people in these institutions and institutions would be in charge when there's a certain cost to bring it in and here's what I expect if nothing, since this is actually the last or last week of this assembly I'm convinced when the vote that you're going to support this, nothing costs you, first reading, this one is not special, this one you won't contribute to the cost of politicians being visible because it's only the first reading, but you'll show one intention and willingness to do it. According to the announcements, I see that people support this, that they want the cost of politicians to be published in one place and here, I expect your support. The opposition is behind this bill. I have seen that some of the ruling majority, since the end of the call was ready to sign, but they are a little in fear, so here you are from the strongest break in the ruling coalition encourage and support this legislative proposal. We'll show that we're not afraid of anything. After all, when the government took these measures to help the economy, everyone asked for public disclosure of who had received these support, and then why not on the other hand. Let's let the politicians see, we citizens pay that money through taxes, taxes, donations, let's see how we spend it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203265	Thank you, Mr. Grmoy's representative. He has several replicas, the first respected representative, Marko Sladolev.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203266	Thank you. So, dear colleague Grmoy, I don't see any reason why this law wouldn't be supported. We have always had some reasons why opposition laws are not supported by the need for additional budgets, this law does not require any budgetary means, that in the preparation of a new law, therefore, there is no reason for this crisis that follows us where the lines will be in front of the soup kitchens, the citizens do not know what their money is spent on. Here, we have Mr. Secretary of State coming from like, so there's a lamb popular dish and this one I think citizens should, so we should know if there's a lambicide going on about politicians and do the citizens even want politicians to spend on that money?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203267	Thank you. Here you go. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203268	Thank you. Dear colleague of Sladolev, I couldn't agree more. So, citizens are particularly sensitive to the cost of politicians, to the waste of their money, I would say it's their money because it's the money they pay through taxes, taxes and donations. The secretary of state isn't from like, but he's from that county of Licko-Senjska, so this one, and we know that there's been a lot of things going on there and there, and it's all happening, although now there's a conflict of factions of these HDZs, so it's probably a little bit more control because there's a fear that, if they don't call each other and conflict, maybe now they're spending a little less.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203269	Thank you. The next replica is Honorable Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203270	Well, my colleague Grumoja, there's a lot of things. Transparency, even one of our colleagues, a caterer sued him for eating a herd and a half lambs along with... So as far as I'm concerned, here's just my Split-Dalmatia County, have they had peace so far, it's been... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Peace was. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] When I showed up then they strengthened the pyr service, so they hired 3-4 new ones, and you in the piar spend more on cream than I do on make-up than I do on, for, for, for, for, for, for food a month. It just says how much they invest in something you don't need. To defend indefensibly, they spend money on levels, mostly the county, that no one will ever find out if it is open publicly and transparently and that it is mandatory to be legal. If we Parliamentarians are rightfully aware of our expenses, what is the reason for you local i.e. and the regional leaders and their structures don't publish that data? Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203271	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203272	So, as far as these county costs are concerned, it's, it's now a special cost story at the pyr, we all know how unfortunately certain units of local self-government, as well as units of regional self-government, county, are spending on media advertising. It's another story and, of course, it's something to talk about, but here we're talking primarily about the cost of officials, and this law would make it much more transparent, and then we'd be careful how they spend money. We have seen, by example, some cities that have introduced meanings publicly published the entire budget, all the items, that it is then and somehow the control of the public much greater, then the officials themselves are looking out for the way money is spent. So this law is actually a small step in that direction, but it certainly is necessary and what my colleague Sladolev said doesn't cost us anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203273	Thank you. The next replica is the distinguished representative Tomislav Žagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203274	Thank you, Vice President. My dear colleague Grumo, you're modestly saying, this is a great law. Believe me, most, 90% of the officials would support this bill. . /. Supported by this law-so-end professor, I think that geography and one more piece, I don't know, my colleague Bark, in Novi Bukovica the head of the municipality, works at two two schools, the head of the municipality, he's so-called. Volunteer, he got a fee of £2500, he doesn't have a card, he doesn't have an official car and so, I believe there are a lot of such municipalities in the Republic of Croatia, mayor of municipalities and even mayors who don't spend money. Let those who spend, how they spend, and why they spend it be known. And those who have, as much as anyone who has a fee, as much as anyone who has a salary, who is a volunteer, who is not. Let it be known, that would be very good and believe that 9 out of 10 mayors of the municipalities would be safe and perhaps even the mayor would be for this bill of yours.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203275	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of the Grmoi.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203276	I agree with it that surely this law would affect the fact that there's no such thing as a perception that they're all the same. Not all of them are the same, not all of them are the same here in the Croatian Parliament, not all local mayors and mayors are the same, not all of them are probably the same, so we need to separate the grain from the weeds, this law goes in that direction, in fact to make those who are irresponsible to the budget money stop, and those who behave responsibly, to praise them, I have nothing against it, anyway.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203277	Thank you. The next replica, the esteemed representative Leakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203278	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Grmoy, you have expressed hope like all others, in fact, those who have spoken so far are colleagues, that this law will be passed but, let's say hypothetically, who might it be and why could it be in the Croatian Assembly against such a law? You must have thought about it too, you have the answer to that question and the other one is actually about what you said in the end, which is that the Croatian government has made a transparent announcement to which of the employers has given support to workers, that is, in part, true, so it has published a list of employers in unsearchable format, so transparency with restraint. It was very difficult to search and see who actually got these support until an NGO actually made it available to the Croatian public in the right way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203279	Thank you. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of the Grmoi.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203280	This is what I said in the debate that we have now and certain transparency for individual bodies, I mentioned the Croatian Assembly but we do not have in one place transparently all the costs and here would be published means all the costs of officials, members of the representative bodies of local self-government units, these are all council members in the counties and in the cities and municipalities, the heads of the administrative bodies of local and regional self-government units, presidents and members of the management boards of local and regional self-government companies, directors or directors of institutions, agencies and other legal persons with public authority who are the founder of units of local and regional self-government. So it would be covered by this law by a broad spectrum of people, or duties and officials.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203281	Next replica, distinguished representative Branko Juričev Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203282	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, fellow Grumoya, you said we were voting for this bill, and that shows we're not afraid of anything. We are not afraid of anything, and we have shown this by adopting and adopting a number of other laws because there is no information that any citizen or newspaper who wants to know or through a report or through the Law on the right to access information cannot come to.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203283	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of the Grmoi.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203284	Dear colleagues, that's a lie. So you're not a lie I believe said on purpose, but it's a lie that any citizen can access the data. As parliamentary representative, the president of the third club in power in the Croatian Parliament, member of the Anti-Corruption Council of the Croatian Parliament, for 2 years I cannot reach the travel orders in Australia which she has made means Mrs. Loretta Bertosha Kushen, who made diplomat Damir Sablak, the father of two girls because he discovered corruption in the embassies, away from the service, and this morning I've been troubled here, if I can't get to it who I've already become and I'm bored with the subject myself, but because of this man I promised not to leave him, I'm not giving up on the subject, I'm acting like a pitbull, so how can a regular Croatian citizen? I don't mean ordinary, every man is equally valuable but a citizen of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203285	Thank you. The following are the discussions, and the committee's rapporteurs? There's no one on the board. Does the Government's representative want to further explain and give an opinion? Dear Secretary of State Darko Nekic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203286	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, and I would like to welcome all the honourable MPs and MPs. So, the government of the Republic of Croatia has manifested itself in its opinion that it does not accept this bill and in several sentences I will try to expose here why the Government does not accept this bill. In view of the proposal for a law proposing to set up a register of costs incurred in the exercise of public duties, the Government of the Republic of Croatia points out that the matter covering the draft law relating to the publication of officials and according to the proposals, the public and transparent spending of budgetary money, is already regulated by budgetary, tax and accounting regulations as well as the rules on the right to access to information and regulations governing the prevention of conflicts of interest. The Government of the Republic of Croatia also considers that transparency in the spending of public funds is clearly regulated by the budgetary regulations, in particular the Budget Law and the Fiscal Responsibility Act, taking into account the fact that the legislative framework prescribes and publishes annual financial reports of units of local or regional self-government, budgetary and extra-accountary beneficiaries of the State Budget and the budget of local and regional self-government on websites, which also show information on expenditures for official travel and expenditures for representation. When it comes to this section relating to the regulation of the obligation of the Ministry of Finance to be responsible for the credibility of the recording of the data entered in this new register that you propose to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Ministry of Finance points out that it could not be responsible for the credibility of that recording, since the above-mentioned budgetary regulations clearly state that the Head of the Unit of Local and Regional Self-Government and the Budgetary User is responsible for the legality, purposefulness, efficiency and economic availability of budgetary resources. The government also considers that the register proposed to establish that bill is not intended since the data it would already contain is now publicly available. Also, the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interests is arranged to prevent conflicts of interest between private and public interest in the conduct of public duties and to regulate bonds of conduct to the provisions of the meanings of this law. Finally, the Government considers that the existing regulations make available and prescribes mandatory transparency of information regarding the costs of public duties as prescribed by officials for transparent action. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203287	Thank you. I'm opening a debate, and Grmoya, I'm sorry, the replicated representative of Nikola Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203288	Dear Secretary of State, it is incorrect that the current regulations allow this kind of transparency. If that were true, I would now sit here on my cell phone and type the name Loretta Bertosha Kushen and get the travel orders I've been looking for for two years. So, throw away this law, say we're afraid of transparency, we're afraid of everything being publicly visible, but don't make me here next to mine still hope for common sense, healthy logic and eyes to cheat that it's now available to me when it's not.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203289	The answer, the Honorable Secretary of State, Nekic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203290	I'm going to try here from this place, so I'm in my presentation to say means the reasons why the government doesn't accept the law, but I would add another one, and that's that exactly what you said will be available for about 6 months to a year that right from your phone when the project comes to life means the Centre of shared services and digitization that we now have that opportunity. So, the government has built a legislative framework, and once we've completed the digitisation projects, you'll have that possibility, without any change in the legislative framework. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203291	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. The first club is the registered representatives of the Most Independent Lists, the respected representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203292	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, the Honorable Representative of the Government, the MOST Club has proposed to mean something that is quite normal and a colleague of Grumoja, on behalf of the promoter of the MOST Club, has made simple arguments that this is very easy to see in other countries and that this needs a legal framework, i.e. I simply think that at this point if anyone is doing everything against digitisation, against electronic voting, against everything, then the Covid virus has suddenly started to digitize, no more triba stamps, no more triba nothing, and in fact you are graves of transparency, and that is proof not only that you do not accept this law, but also on the subject, and you know very well the referendum initiatives that have been untransparently annulled, the will of the people, 400,000 people have collected signatures and that this problem has been solved, that you have given the people to vote, you have spit out, the Government of Andrej Pupovac, Milorad Pupovac, Vrdoljak and Milan Bandić have spit out 400,000 people who have gathered in their faces, 400,000 people who have collected signatures that we have something transparent. Here, in the election of representatives in the Croatian Parliament, will one of us vote for it and not accept it or disagree with it this is another thing, but the fact is that you have put more mud on intransparency against digitisation, against the will of the people than anyone else and you are witnesses of it. So we voted here when we talked about transparency, we voted against the referendum here. Most of them without having evidence of invalid signatures you said had 40,000. If we got it, we didn't get that opportunity, and you're saying that in half a year, you're going to be transparent, you're going to present 20 counties with a transparent cost, so that's your boob you suck if you don't have you without it a respected representative of the government. You're a witness, you know that very well. The first step in order for everything to be transparent, we must first look into the eyes of the people. I come from Sinj and I have travel expenses, perhaps most but it is known that I was in the assembly today, that every day I am in the assembly, that I am an active representative, to propose, to try, as far as the people say, I have done my best. If I'm any more, maybe I am, maybe I'm not, and someone else is going to judge. And why wouldn't we in the county know it in public? So who are they, who gave them 52 more powers, for three months we debated here to pass on powers to them and an even bigger budget. They're the Pharaohs, you know what you've done? So, your county is a flow water heater from central state to local self-government, according to Vrlica. It's that money up to Vrlika di no more people, unfortunately because of this kind of policy that we have non-transparents. In a flow water heater, what should be contributed to health care in Vrlica, in the Island, in Sinj, in Gorski Kotar, in Omislje, does not matter di, ends up in a flow water heater, but full of rocks. So what now? Stone untransparent until pain. Not only are we talking about politicians to us MPs what the tribune is public and transparent, but we are talking about the transparency of these institutions that have stalled the development of the Republic of Croatia, 2/3 of the Republic of Croatia stands. Concessions on maritime well-being, here's my colleague Sanader knows, their coalition partner in the county, my colleague is Sanader, president of the HDZ Club, I'm the president of the Most Councilman's Club, he has to be given to a member of the Bene coalition in order to have a hand down in the Split-Dalmatia County. So our beaches, beaches or examples tell you about transparency when we're talking and this is simple, fellow Grmoja is river triba to publish it and let it be known. You have an example in the island were a few elections, the Sinj Island, the Dalmatian and were local elections and the election was lost and the deputy mayor of the municipality who lost in HDZ was a veterinarian by profession, all right. However, when it broke out, lost the election had no dibs on it, so they put it as the director of a construction firm owned by the county, the famous one company Cetina who had a brand of 50-60, of course it was brought to the bottom. One low-building company was a renowned company with quality people, machines and very large-scale heavy jobs worked on numerous, demanding jobs throughout the area not only of Dalmatia, but of the Republic of Croatia. And of course who's going to be getting the agglomeration contests now, we see that the prices are rising when our companies are destroyed like that. There's nothing different about appointments, transparent appointments. You lose the election for Mayor Omis, be good with Anto Sanader, it's easy just to be there for him, no problem being home manager for the elderly and powerless. And now, of course, Beroš, the team of Chile, the pictures, the television, they're dying, they're staying home, everyone at home, they're all bored, they're scared, they're afraid, they're yelling Beroš don't let us go into nursing homes until the 25th, where they're powerless, and the virus's on fire, and the man says, the director of the nursing home, Mr. Skaričić, here's 10 days they've had some kind of temperature of her 15-ac bit escalated and what you're about to do. So, it's not just transparency, I'm in favour of being published transparently, but it's a problem because you're coming from that section of the ministry that when we talk about transparency then local self-government would of course have to publish as much as for example. Is the stone foundation or for the same projects open so far? I've known them by now. I can count them. That's why, before each election, I lay all the stone foundations so that these wouldn't be great costs for lambicides is all lambicides, so someone asks for this lamb in, in, colleague of Sladolev's in Lica, it's a mess with a colleague of Sladolev's. When you pass Licom, they were swept away by them instead of encouraging the lamb to develop agriculture and livestock, they ate them both lambs and mothers without any problem, nor who saw how paid, nor was paid, so it was even meaningful to me when I saw that a fellow representative, he was the head of the municipality, I can't remember the name, not often in the assembly, from my constituency, not something active, but mostly from Zadar County, that he was sued by a catererer that ate his flock and by these lambs, I mean it's official data, herds and lambs, that this lambicide was unlimited. It was, I mean, I'm not gonna say it was for the Hague, but it was an ai and it was in a court dispute. And I don't know, I can't get enough of the names, he's here, the chief's Jesenica is, I don't know, I can't get enough of the names is not an active man, I can't get enough of all the MPs when I'm 150 I haven't seen but 15 in this 4 years. Except when it's a vote. So it's not a problem with me anymore. And imagine, the same herd of lambs and, and, and, and to the parents. So, missing in that area where they were supposed to be grown, so that's where they're headed for the Pasha part of the lamb they're clocking and now they're in court. So what are those municipalities doing, I mean how it works, destroying the caterer, destroying that farmer who was a cattle farmer. So that's the unfavorable damage in that area. But mostly, I was a little... But transparency is very important. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] But here I was thinking today about something very important in the 21st century because of the slowness, ineffectiveness, because of what depends on the mayors, about this, so when I see 800,000 acres of land undivided, you know what intransparency is? We've been through the Agricultural Land Act 20 times. I even proposed a law in emergency procedure, yet it did not give it, although it would triangulate the essence of the measure to divide agricultural land, to bury agricultural land. In my Dalmatia alone, 20,000 acres of land is unprocessed, in Dalmatia I speak, 20,000 acres. It could hurt, it could hurt, it could feed 11 million people. I can do the same as the promoter, don't worry, you didn't get rid of me if you thought you got rid of me, water me so behind the lamb down the same.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203293	The next debate is, and on behalf of the promoter, the esteemed representative of Nikola Grmoi.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203294	I thought of a situation I had to react to. The secretary of state said that everything is actually available now, and then I caught up with this case I always talk about, and I didn't think of one of the major affairs of this Plenkovic government. You remember the Helsinki case, therefore, the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interest has suspended the procedure, said the prime minister violated the principle of public duty but that the procedure cannot continue because they did not receive the documentation. What are we talking about? So, the current regulations also prevent both the public and the media, which is the worst and the institutions of the Croatian state that should check whether anyone is in conflict of interest or not because they can say as Prime Minister Plenkovic said, I will not submit the documentation. And there is not only Prime Minister Plenkovic, so there are several prominent government officials and officials or HDZ politicians. So here's the deal, here's what I'm going to find on Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, Davor Bozinovic, Deputy Prime Minister and Head of Civil Protection Staff, Parliament Speaker Gordan Jandrokovic, Vice-President Zeljko Reiner, Prime Minister Marko Milic, former Minister Tomislav Tolušić, Lovri Kustevic and Nadia Murganic. Therefore, no proceedings were initiated against them because of the lack of the necessary documentation to the Commission, as the Commission could not establish the relevant facts. So here you can see that it's not available. If available then this application would mean who went and when in Helsinki, the plane map, if it went with the government plane then it would have been written that it was going by government aircraft, for which purpose, to a party or it could not be a party, but it would have to be the one for the purpose of government affairs, but obviously they joined together, both party and government duties, and in fact it was only a meeting of the European People's Party and then it was justified by some state affairs. So here's just this example shows that this application, or this law, is very much needed because it would oblige officials to make everything public and transparent. Now we do not have such a commitment and Prime Minister Plenkovic can freely say that he does not want to deliver the documentation and this was in fact a failure of the Committee to prevent conflicts of interest and the commission has shown impotence because the prime minister did not want to deliver the documentation. So, I appreciate that you came here, I know that Minister Zdravko Maric refused to make a statement at all about this law because he is aware of how harmful it is to be against this law and this is assigned to the Ministry of Administration and you are sent here today because it is not easy to defend something that is so logical and necessary and that we would all support it, and not here would be a colleague who I respect actually defends the position of the Government here, and she is aware that such an attitude is indefensible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203295	Thank you. We have two replicas. The first is Commissioner Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203296	... Excuse me, my colleague Grumoja, you encouraged me to ask you, can you imagine when once the Committee on the Prevention of Conflict of Interests does not want the Prime Minister to provide information, what it looks like when an ordinary citizen asks for data based on the right to access information. [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]] And I'd ask the secretary of state, no matter who's in charge of accessing information to decide whether or not he's going to give it to a citizen when he's looking for access to his own money information about his own money? We have seen how citizens have the right to see how the budget reserves of the City of Zagreb are spent, not only indiscriminately but in this particular team that we are talking about today and that we want citizens to always have the right to access.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203297	Thank you. Answer, Mr. Grmoy's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203298	Dear fellow Members, I was already responding to my colleague when she said that the regulations were now made possible, it is quite clear that it is not because the commission cannot receive information and travel orders, it is not possible for the Anti-Corruption Council of the Croatian Parliament, I am not the only one who asked for it, President Jovanovic, who is the chairman of the National Council for the Monitoring Strategy for the Prevention of Corruption, we have not received travel orders for these embassies, nor do we see that the commission has won. So, an ordinary citizen has no chance of getting something if the officials, the powerful, are not in the interest of the citizens coming to this.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203299	Thank you. The next replica is Honorable Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203300	Thank you very much. Well, you've had enough of your colleague Grmoy, the Committee of Conflict of Interest, come the Prime Minister, travel through Helsinki with a plane as if it were his own, no commitments, there are party gatherings, Juncker, Tusk, those with whom I have no notions, with my friends who are absolutely neither concerned about Croatia, but the important thing is that he is reputed and he tells the entire Croatian public, who is this commission, I give, I am free of Croatia, I am the foundation of the Croatian state, I am the basis of the law, there is no law above me, which Parliament, which is of conflict of interest, I am, what God above me, I am, I have manners, I know 4 languages, I know I have a hairline of good, young, I am weak, what is that people of fathers, who care? And that's the bottom of Croatian democracy, the man who presents himself to the greatest Democrats is the bottom of democracy and the promoter of corruption in, among politicians.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203301	The answer to the esteemed representative of the Grmoi.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203302	I agree with Andrej Plenkovic, everything I thought of him, that's what I said. He, along with the President of the Parliament, is in fact the match of corruption in Croatian society, the protector of corruption in the Croatian embassies, and I have documented this myself, these are not the flat-rate claims and false accusations, according to the President of the Parliament. I have evidence that they protect corruption in our embassies, and that a man who would be rewarded in every normal country for professionalism, for patriotism, for being truthful, and for being away from the service. Against such Croatia, Plenkovic, Jadrokovic and other diplomats who abuse their service I will continue to fight here in the HS public, and with Damir Sabelak and the applicants of irregularities I will always, I will always stand behind them.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203303	Thank you. The next replica is Commissioner Leakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203304	Thank you, Vice President. A fellow Bolt, it's very important, therefore, to know what is being spent on. But it's also very important to know who it was spent with, so who was at that lunch, who was at that dinner, which was the purpose of that meeting. We know today that in Croatia lobbying is not arranged in any way, so we also know that, let's say, journalists and anyone else can't get information about some secret meetings that Prime Minister Plenkovic, Minister Obuljen Koržinek and some other members of the government recently had in the Croatian government. So, secret meetings with the editor-in-chiefs of selected Croatian media, we will probably never know what was agreed at these meetings because we do not have mechanisms, so neither we as parliamentary representatives nor journalists, or through us, can the public ever know what actually Prime Minister Plenkovic met with parliamentary elections agreed to follow, whether, the Croatian Democratic Community, in those elections.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203305	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of the Grmoi.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203306	Yeah, that, that's another topic that wouldn't be solved by this bill, but unfortunately it's about part of the Croatian media. It speaks of how those who question corruption either having no space in the media or being attacked by these media, and how the man who is the prime minister, whose money, whose state-owned companies are advertised, agencies, ministries, through, even worse, EU funds in these presses, has protection and support in implementing their policy. That's another problem, he needs to be talked about, it's very important, but here we are, unfortunately, where we are, I hope that the political consolidations will change, and that all of this will be questioned. And the role of the media in maintaining this corrupt government.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203307	Thank you. The next individual debate on behalf of the Club of the Independent Youth List, Tomislav Panenic, is missing. He's losing his right. The next one is Branka Juričev-Martinchev's representative on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203308	Thank you very much, Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. My colleagues and colleagues. This proposal for a law on transparency of costs in the performance of public duties submitted by the Association of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, the HDZ Club will not support because transparency in the spending of public funds is clearly regulated by already applicable regulations, of those accounting, tax, budgetary, rules on the right to access information to rules on the prevention of conflicts of interest. Just now, on behalf of my colleague, Grmoy, he was also talking about a few cases. I would also point out and remind the promoter that this law provides only for the establishment of another register, means additional costs and jobs for the administration, from those in institutions, cities, municipalities, counties, to those in the Ministry of Finance, but they also do not foresee any legal provisions in the event of a breach of that law, as he believes, that in certain cases the Law on the right to access information was violated. The Budget Act and the Fiscal Responsibility Act are prescribed to publish annual financial reports. So, municipal councils, city councils, county councils, they have a legal provision and a obligation to submit certain reports, as well as their institutions. So reports of institutions and companies go to those councils, assemblies or government and parliament, depending on whether their founders or owners are municipalities, cities, counties or even the Republic of Croatia. The mayors and mayors, the municipal chiefs, are responsible for the legality, efficiency and economy of the availability of budgetary resources and they, by their signature, approve each of the travel order and the cost of the team, and thus correspond and it is inappropriate that the Ministry of Finance is responsible for the credibility of these documents. The data that should be contained in this new register are already publicly available, as I have also said under the Law on the right to access information is regulated and publicly available to all those who wish to have insight into the costs we are interested in, and the obligation by means of transparency is to each official and according to the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest. The proposal states that this effective mechanism should be put in place, for three purposes, firstly that taxpayers' money and other public funds should be used with sound and responsibleness and in order to achieve public interest. This should be done by every mayor, mayor and mayor and, as I said, when submitting the report, you can see the amount spent on official travel or representation and any one who does not use those funds responsibly, very quickly his citizens, those who have allowed him to come to that position, have the right and the obligation to manage them responsibly with that money, if not, will be sanctioned. The second objective is to ensure that all costs incurred in the exercise of public duties are necessary and justified and previously approved by authorised officials. We know that every year the Office of State Audit comes and oversees the work of each unit of local or regional (regional) self-government and, among other things, supervision and spending on official travel and representation and each of these accounts must be signed and reviewed by several persons. The third objective, according to the promoter, is that the public has insight into spending taxpayers' money and other public funds and, as I said, can, through reports available to all council members, parliamentarians, MPs and thus to the public. And as stated by his colleague, Grmoy, here's an example. The costs of Assembly representatives are publicly announced, we can say only for 2019, as my colleague Bulj himself said, amounting to €112,000, and then colleagues of Sladoliva 0 kn, but it is also necessary to know that even my colleague Bulj did not use the hotel, everything is seen for which amount is separate for which purpose. We have the inscriptions often and the headlines of the most thrift mayors and heads of municipalities who, with only a few hundred inhabitants, have a representation greater than the city of Split, all of them indicate that all the data we want is available to us, but I will repeat that certain cases cannot and will not comment specifically if it is a violation of the law and this law to be in force tomorrow, and it can be violated. Every travel order is signed by the one who travels, then signed by the mayor and then the mayor. The team also signs the mayor's signature and writes who consumed those meals and drinks and for which reason the cost was created. Any such account may be reported for irregularities, may be reported by the host’s employee who consumed this meal and drink to the person who came into his hands, from the employees of the protocol, accounting, controllers, etc., and each of them may report irresponsible spending of public money. In February 2019, we also adopted the Law on the Protection of Reporters of Irregularity, tomorrow we are discussing amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the Ombudsman, where a new service, the Office for the Protection of Reporters of Irregularity, is being established. The Institute of Finance conducts research and analysis of the budgetary transparency of all Croatian counties, cities and municipalities and awards. We see that lately more and more transparent businesses and counties, they have an average rating, I don't know, 4.9, cities 4.3, municipalities 3.8, etc. This law provides for the establishment of the management of the register, collection, registration, processing, archiving, enabling registration and updating of data, etc., I think that at a time when we all swear to reduce the costs of administration, rationalisation of public administration, when we are looking for a more efficient public administration that must be at the service of citizens, that we must try to simplify the functioning of that administration, that it is at the service and assistance of both our economy and our citizen, this proposal brings new costs, but we must unfortunately recognise the slow administration. The government has reduced the number of agencies, the office, it has transferred over 200 jobs to the state administration and thus reduced by 600 employees, rationalised the administration for 600 employees. These are all reasons why the HDZ final club cannot support this proposal of the Law on Transparency of Costs in the performance of its duties because it does not stand as a result of its proposal that there is no monitoring mechanism responsible for the spending of public money but as much as possible, a number of regulations regulate this approval, supervision and transparency. I will now be able to quote the president of the Most Independent Lists, says the only Most who swears to rationalise the public administration is seeking new commitments and is looking for new means to implement their ideas so let the citizens pay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203309	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, the esteemed representative of Nikola Grmo.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203310	My colleague, so I understand that you must defend this irrational decision by the Government to reject this law, but in the case of Helsinki, in the case of these expenses in Australia, we could not get to that data. The documentation on every road or cost, there's in every accounting, you just need to scan them and publish them on this app, there's no cost, you're actually not here to say that the Irish and Canadians are crazy, so we're in HDZ smart, so both the Irish and the Canadians don't know anything. the costs of the application are irrationally published and make no sense of it. If what you're saying, that this is a lie, I'm not just going to show you an example of your officials, I'm going to take an example of Radir Cacic. The state audit found that Radimir Cacic listed half a million kuna on the team in Varazdin County in 2008 spent 530,000 kuna of which on catering services 366,000 kuna. And the State Audit asked him to answer where he spent all that money? You know what he said to them, meaning the State Audit, I'm briefly nice to them, so I quote, "I told them in a short time that all that they care about is asking their mom nicely, since they can't do me." So you can see colleagues cost total, but you can't see where, what and how spent and for what purpose. That's what we're looking for. We know that the government spent on a trip to Helsinki, so we can probably get to the amount and it's going to be somewhere I don't know if we can get to the total amount that's been spent, here's to government. We can go to the mayor's office. We can't do that about the government. And we don't know for what purpose, whether it was for the purpose of a party trip, whether it was for the purpose of state affairs, whether everyone who was on a government plane went to state affairs, and obviously not because there were some who weren't even ministers. So it was clearly a party trip. And what you're saying, I appreciate and respect you, but what you're saying just doesn't stand, just doesn't stand, and it doesn't make sense now that we're still arguing here, that I, because on concrete examples, I prove to you that what you're saying is not true. And it doesn't make sense, so we have seven or eight days left of this assembly that now you have to defend something that doesn't stand. When the vote comes, I know that you will listen to what the government has said, you will reject this legislative proposal, unfortunately, but there are no excessive and rational arguments for what you claim. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203311	Thank you. Replica, distinguished representative Branko Juričev Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203312	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, I have to correct you, my colleague, and you said that the implementation of this law does not require any means to be provided, that you, in the opening section, have said that in order to implement it, it is necessary to provide 200,000 kuna for 2019 alone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203313	The answer to the distinguished representative of Nikola Grmoi.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203314	So, fellow Members, 200,000 kuna, that is the maximum amount this application would cost once and for all, would no longer be necessary to spend on the implementation of this law. And how much money would be saved by it, means that everything is transparent and that these local leaders, that business directors, various agencies around the county are afraid of whether anyone will get that data. How much, I guarantee you in the first year to save a few million kunas, perhaps more, these are conservative estimates of mine. A few million kunas in the first year. So the law would save, this law would save money, and wouldn't cost money for Croatian taxpayers and Croatian citizens. It's just for making an application, but maybe an application can be made for less money, so we put some kind of maximum amount of what it could cost.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203315	Thank you. The next debate is the esteemed representative of Hrvoj Zekanovic, he is gone, so he loses his right. The next debate is Commissioner Mirela Ahmetovic, SDP Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203316	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, I am pleased to discuss this law today, this proposal for a Law on Transparency of Costs in the exercise of public duties. This law proposes the management and publication of a register of costs incurred in the exercise of public duties concerning travel costs and representations of officials. Every bill on this trail of praise is valuable, and praise is worth it because it aims at opening citizens up the opportunity to follow and control how their money is spent. And that's why the SDP will support this proposal. However, I must also point out some shortcomings in this bill. It is incorrect that the bill states that there is no real mechanism to monitor the responsible spending of public funds and their necessity and economic justification. Namely, such a mechanism exists in reality for absolutely all costs, each spent from the budget of cities and municipalities, but in just 4 out of 555 units of local self-government in the Republic of Croatia. Of these four, local self-government units are led by SDP officials and 1 by HSLS and an independent official. And this mechanism, ladies and gentlemen, is available to the entire public, not only to the residents of these units of local self-government but to the entire public, so I invite you here to look at the Omisalj municipality website, for example. www.omisalj.hr For example, you enter the word income and look at the absolute income of all employees in the management department of Omisalj Municipality, enter the word lunch, enter the word photocopier paper, enter any word, and come up with complete, transparent information about the name and last name of the company to which it was paid, about the address of the natural or legal person to whom it was paid, about the amount paid, about the purpose for which it was paid, about the date when it was paid as well as about the economic classification or the item of the budget from which it was paid. So that's what complete transparency is and it's a mechanism that controls the spending of public money, and not only that, but also the purpose of spending on budget items. The lack of this, although a very well-intentioned law or bill is also the fact that it will not win the achievement of the stated objective, which is that taxpayers' money and other public funds are used wisely and responsibly and for the sake of public interest. Ah, why won't that goal come true? Because this proposal does not allow for unintended spending of funds precisely for the purpose of the national team. The example was the accidental spending of funds precisely on a team in the city of Zagreb, where Mayor Milan Bandic of the item "a budget reserve" spent funds for the purpose of the catering team. Budgetary reserves are spent on caterering, but there is no budget reservations for the reconstruction of the city of Zagreb after the aftermath of the earthquake. With this register, too, the cost of lunches paid from the budget reserve is difficult to make available to the public, if there is no state audit and if the state audit information is not given in some media, and we know how the media operates today. There would also be no information available on the withdrawal of millions of cash from ATMs, such as in Virovitica or in Skabrnja where public money is managed by HDZ officials and spent cash on representation and overnight expenses, and as the audit concludes, the withdrawal of money is not even recorded in the accounts. These are examples of the behaviour of HDZ officials and their Jokers. Also, we in the SDP consider it unnecessary to enter into the law the monitoring of the costs of the team or the travel of the head and members of the council. Why? Because in the proposal for a law under the term "obligor", it includes, among other things, the head of the administrative bodies of units of local or regional self-government as well as members of the representative bodies of the unit of local or regional self-government. This is wrong because, by virtue of the Budget Law, they are not responsible for the implementation of the budget, but are executive bodies, mayors, mayors and mayors, so it is sufficient to define the cost of the representation in general or universally based on accounting criteria, regardless of who implemented this cost. The fact is, that all the corrupt actions involved in spending public money are directly or indirectly approved by whoever is responsible for spending public money, and we said just before who is, unfortunately the fact is that the problems of the corrupt actions of ministers, directors, directors, directors of public institutions and businesses, headmasters and others in Croatia are being resolved possibly in a way of political care and this political care of these individuals to other positions of power, and those who have actually enabled such behaviour, which allowed such illegal spending of Croatian citizens' money, remain intact under the prescription I did not know. Ladies and gentlemen, citizens don't trust us, none of us are even obliged to believe us. Why would they trust us? Why would they trust us when they're lied to, stolen and intellectually harassed on a daily basis? Who are we to even have citizens trust us? Why would they trust us? Those who are under USKOK's indictment for falsifying travel orders and taking the citizens' money from the state register are now under the ruling political coat. Here in the House they come faithfully and obediently to raise their hands for proposals of the ruling because the ruling counterfeiting of travel orders and thefts from the pockets of citizens does not mind. Yes, as long as they raise their hand. And he'll raise his hand for a new state's attorney. They'll pick the state's attorney, please be careful. And the D.O.R.H. needs to stand behind that charge. If it wasn't tragic, it would be comical. Comrade Grmoi, my proposal is far simpler. Let us pass a law on transparent spending of public money in general, at all budgetary levels, at national, regional and local level. In all institutions, in all agencies, in all trading companies owned by a majority state and units of local or regional self-government in such a way that all, but absolutely all accounts, all payments, regardless of the purpose, from the salaries of officials, from the salaries of employees, the costs of lunch, travel expenses to the cost of obtaining photocopier paper or the costs of building construction facilities, recorded in business books are visible and available to the public via the Internet and comparable to planned items of the budget of local or regional self-government or in the final line and the state budget. This would avoid, or at least to the public, the theft of public money through suspicious or criminal public procurement, the bribery of officials or officials at positions of power, the purchase of votes by stakeholders who gather a large number of voters, as well as the establishment of a commercial voting machine in the Assembly. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the ruling majority will not accept this law, let alone the insight into every kuna, in every piece of spent citizens' money, and I don't mean just because they don't accept any amendments and no one's bill proposals, no matter how high they are, but simply because such a law would make them stop corrupting. But citizens already have the option in July to choose whether to control the spending of their own funds or the situation of things where HDZ mayors and mayors are allowed to raise their millions with ATMs and spend them on restaurants. Comrades and colleagues, it is time to give the citizens what is theirs. It makes me uncomfortable both as a man and as a politician that reality is such that in this room I often have someone to say to me, fingers to myself, bills to the sun. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203317	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, the esteemed representative of Nikola Grmo.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203318	So, as for these suggestions of yours, I have no problem with that, this is the first reading, but unfortunately here are the intentions of the ruling parliament, I was hoping we'd be able to discuss this law, he was referred to the procedure a year ago. It can be repaired, certain things can be inserted into another reading through amendments, and I also have nothing against any broader law, but I think this law would be a huge shift so that maybe better with those who want to hide certain things, you might go with some milder therapy although it would be good, I called today and this morning for the DORH to be decommissioned, so I agree that we need more radical demands, so that what you have made as remarks, we are absolutely open and hopefully here, if not in this Parliament's session, then in this new one we will be able to change and fix this law, and if not, we will bring this one that will be more comprehensive.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203319	Next debate, distinguished representative Tomislav Žagar on behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSU, SNAGA and Independent Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203320	Thank you, esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. I will seek in a brief debate to express the position of HSU, independent representatives and SNAGA that we will support this legislative proposal by respecting the remarks of counterpart Ahmetovic, who spoke on behalf of the SDP, we believe that this, as the promoter said, is one step forward towards the transparency of spending public money, this is very important in the Republic of Croatia. This morning we saw a debate about the key man of the DORH, that the low level of trust of the people in the institutions of this country and I said in the replica, a colleague of Grmoja and I am convinced that, most of them, I said 9 out of 10, most local leaders, mayors and mayors, would not be able to claim for mayors such a proposal. They have nothing to hide. counterpart Ahmetovic said well that there are some municipalities and cities that show it transparently, many should be invited to still show it because many have nothing to hide. And this law would only help like that. So this law would help those who do good, who have no reason to hide anything, to make it transparent. The truth is that what we want to achieve goes beyond not just the level of this law but the level of one ministry, it concerns several ministries. Take only public procurement, how many fingers are involved in public procurement, so it is Eldorado for many leaders of local self-government units, the city of Zagreb is there ahead, and of course for many entrepreneurs who, under the patronage, say politics, get jobs from day to day, from month to month, year to year. I've said it a few times here in Parliament, so give it to every man, choose one man, give him a good contract, see what a good entrepreneur will be, only if it's a good contract through public procurement that's been set up. So, this law has a good intensity, a good sense, should be supported because it would allow those who work honestly to see it and can't and can't mention the town of Virovitica, so there happened that every working day, watch every working day, just last year, every working day someone with an ATM raised 5 to 10,000 kuna and no one noticed it. So it just shows how much they're ratios and how dangerous it is that some things aren't shown transparently because there are cases like this. Of course, local self-government leaders, mayors have this greater opportunity, mayors of larger cities, of course, where there is more money, is there, municipal chiefs here and there, have the opportunity to use some of the funds for their promotion and do it regularly, and then through the team it is shown as a specific meeting where it is actually politically agreed, politically eligible, looking for future voters. That kind of thing would be clearer if it were an obligation to show it in the register. Comrade Grmoy, you rightly say, unfortunately, let's assume that we will not be able to do another reading now in this assembly of Parliament, hopefully in the next session, that neither will this authority, that the opposition will come to power, and that then, that this law is passed because why, I told you that it is modest when you said that only in one part of this law is good, there is no reform of local self-government without clean bills. That must be clear to everyone. The reform of local self-government starts with self-government itself, and when counterpart Ahmetovic mentions those who do well, so these people, tomorrow they can be the drivers of reforms, they know how money is spent transparently, they know what's best for their community and to say it the simplest, only they can estimate that their municipality and neighbouring community can be paid back, why, because they will be better off, not to them personally but citizens will be better off, they will withdraw funds from EU funds, they will keep representative bodies that they now have and let them agree that they will be the leader, they want to be from one deputy, and so on, but that initiative must go from below. Anything that is forced to say picturesquely from Zagreb will be difficult to pass because everyone will stand in defense and will say I will not give up my municipality, I will not give up my city. And in that sense, this law is also one of the starting points, to see who in the Republic of Croatia, how it spends money, and whether it makes sense for the survival of its municipality not because of him to be punished, although it is necessary to punish him seriously because there are those who have become encumbered in crime. Someone mentioned here, if someone ate too many lambs, it's not an intensity, but to prove to them that this model will not be useful in the future for his community, for the citizens of his community and that something has to change. The club will support your bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203321	Thank you. Next individual debate, distinguished representative Marko Sladolev.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203322	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, honourable MPs, dear citizens. It is therefore clear what the intensity of MOST law is and in the context of the time that follows us. We've had difficult times ahead of us, and now there's a bigger row in front of the soup kitchens, and the citizens will look at every kuna. This law was to be passed long before but especially in these times where citizens will find it difficult to see, live, where they will actually watch how their money is spent they need to pass this law. Me and my colleague, Grmoja, were at the presentation of the book The Black Book and the spending of the public money of the Lipa Association, where we remained shocked that they reported, how much, in fact, the public money of the citizens of this country spent on completely unnecessary things. They, truth be told, also presented state subsidies and problematic public procurement in that book, but one of the items was spending on lunches, dinners, cards, filling fuel, and they themselves said that the item was the hardest thing to look for when they were doing the Black Book. They mentioned these famous Zagreb pillars, plastic columns, in Zagreb there are columns that guard other steps, one column costs 100 euros, you have a column and about, 10 around it, 10 new pillars because the pillars guard the steps and all the citizens pay for it. And it is interesting that we who are often on the ground and when we were at the stands with, when you talk to some citizens who belong to another option supported by the mayor at the moment of Zagreb, they themselves say he steals, but also gives. Yeah. And then I'm the lady who told me, so I know he's stealing, but yes, he said you have Mrs. 200 kuna. She says I have, I took her that 200 kuna, and what do you think I'm gonna take those 200 kunas now, and give you back 100 kuna, would you be happy with that? So citizens need to be aware that it is their money, so budget money is their money that they are paying into the state budget and that every politician should be responsible for these money. So, this law, this intensity of this law is that mayors, not just mayors, and other officials actually spend their money more rationally at the moment when each kuna will be visible. So, I don't know, this business lunch that he's ready for, which he really doesn't need in times of crisis won't work because that citizen will be able to see, because that local portal will publish, our mayor at times when the crisis is in the government, when there's no money, spends on business so lunches, where it won't actually be useful. What I remember is that one of the items in that Black Book was the spending of public money when one mayor at the opening, I don't know, someone.../incomprehensible/... some entrepreneurial zones spent millions and millions of kuna on fireworks, yes. And these millions of kunas could employ 10 new young people. So that's what it's all about, so he's more, so that this register somehow gets him to go into that sort of thing at all. So, and I believe that this law, here's my colleagues before me, were saying that we should expand the law and yes, and that it would save a lot more money, but this law will, believe me, if you bring in millions and millions of kunas just because it's going to prevent some things. So we're open to all suggestions, all suggestions, we'll see how they vote, we're here to propose, to fight, and I believe the citizens will recognize that.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203323	Replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203324	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague of Sladolev. So, first of all, the leaders, they are also officials, but let's not forget, when we talk about public money, Croatian forest, Croatian road, Croatian water, JANAF, many public companies in which there are, not only large salaries but there are, betraying cards are used, official vehicles, and then severances that are often being manipulated to get severances and so, sometimes people get severances and they come back to work and believe me, the interest of parliamentary deputies to make it transparent. The interest of parliamentary representatives above all because parliamentary representatives with the right to strike the public most, but parliamentary representatives do not have official vehicles, have no cards, and that is why it is our aim, first of all, to pass laws that will follow the spending of money. We are responsible for this if these companies spend their money as they wish.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203325	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203326	You remember my colleague, Žagar, when there was a Commissioner for Information who supported me in my request to publicly announce which parliamentary representatives at the expense of the Croatian Football Federation went to games, which were paid expensive hotels and she even supported that law, and I think the government said it was a secret piece of information because HNS is not funded from the state budget. I think the public should know which MPs went to the HNS because we also bring laws here on sports that concern exactly the HNS.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203327	Thank you. Next debate, replica, the esteemed representative of Nikola Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203328	I gave the line so I wouldn't go out again. So, a colleague of Sladolev's touched certain costs and unreasonable spending of money in the city of Zagreb, and a colleague also spoke of a comprehensive law, this can be easily done, e.g. amending the Budget Law, but then the State should provide all units of local and regional self-government applications, free applications. If we were to commit them by law because it was your will that you in your local self-government unit implement it, but if we went by law to commit it means all units of local and regional self-government, then I think it would be correct for the state to provide them with that application, which would save them huge resources at the state level. So it's not about your will that you've shown, it's about making a commitment to the Budget Law, so it might be easy to solve this one, but it needs political will.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203329	Thank you. The next individual debate is the distinguished representative Grozdana Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203330	Dear Vice President HS, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. This law seems to me that it came to me precisely for the purpose of even a little more pulsism here and in this way it actually shows that some colleagues use it very skillfully. Personally, I don't have any problem with showing all the budget costs, etc., for many years I've been leading it, lying about it, responsible for it, and I don't think it's the crime of every major of ours, the mayor of HDZ because HDZ's that a priori has done anything wrong. So we have examples, for example. Ms. Mayor. Lovric Merzel, so we have an example of the Mayor of Saba, so we have an example of ministers who were in Las Vegas, etc. So, if we're going to get muddled, then we can just throw ourselves at each other. However, it is the responsibility of each individual mayor, mayor, mayor, and the current laws of the Budget Act and the Fiscal Responsibility Act clearly define what is and how is to be followed. After all, we also have the media that have sought hundreds of them and the analysis of the individual spending of money in the city of Zadar's budget, and thus they have come up with all the information on travel costs, on this team, etc. Therefore, it is not something that is closed and unreachable and therefore cannot be accessed and every man, every official must certainly be responsible for what he does. It's very amazing that when some say you can't see what was going on in a jury account, then it's amazing to me because every transaction was this one or that one is seen to be something touched, downloaded, paid, etc. Thus, no one can tell me that this cannot be reached and determined. When we talk about the budgets, then unfortunately, and when the state budget is here and when the extra budget users are then few MPs discuss it, ask, question, etc., and I personally also believe that this must be questioned and that both state-owned companies and the costs and contracts agreed there and everything else must be taken into account. Therefore, this law is not consistent at all because when costs are monitored then they are followed by the principle of the place of cost and then this cabbage, which in this way would present to the public, would be even more misleading, because you can see that for the day-to-day political purposes everything can be used, and which is not good, because then in many situations and what has been done properly, can be presented completely different. I therefore believe that in this way, as this law is imagined, it would not be much achieved because I say everything can be obtained, everything is published, and in the end we, as representatives in certain segments, are important and significant to behave responsibly in each of our actions.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203331	Thank you. We've got a few replicas, the first respected representative of Nikola Grmoi.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203332	My colleague Peric, after each of your presentations in HS, I remain surprised, I can't believe what I'm listening to. So for you it's transparency of populism, the fight for transparency is your populism. And where did you hear during my discussions that I was hitting on anyone? I didn't mention any of the cases except when I tried to explain to my colleague that it wasn't true that there could be documentation. In my opening statement, I did not mention any name at all, nor did I deal with HDZ or SDP mayors and commissioners. You obviously felt called, and then you started hitting on others with mud. I'm not saying it's just HDZ thieves, I didn't say it. I said we needed this law to reduce the abuse of public money. And in your vicinity You're from Zadar, you've got a Victor Rifle who spent £200,000 on the team. [[Intruder: Time]] Here, that's an example if we're going to talk about an example.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203333	Reply Honored representative Grozdana Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203334	I don't feel called, I'm only talking about arguments, I didn't mention you, and what you're feeling called is your idea and your insinuation that you would question everything, I think you've missed the profession, that you should have been something else. [[/Clip intrusion: What?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203335	Okay. The next replica is Honourable representative Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203336	Your Honor, you mentioned the cases of Sabo and Merzel. These cases have been prosecuted or have been brought before the judiciary, and I welcome that. I really welcome it all the way. In fact, I encourage the judicial authorities to place the most severe penalties on anyone who puts their fingers in a jam, whether white or black, HDZ or SDP. But what I don't see is that the efficiency of the judiciary and the speed when it comes to HDZ's fins of unintended spending money, I mentioned Bandic and I'm not afraid to mention Bandic. I will also mention Mayor Clay, I will mention the Mayor of Obrovec who spent 1,000 kn every day for a full year on food and hotels. I will mention them all by name and name, and I will mention the party when it comes to HDZ and when it comes to SDP, however. And I don't know why you're constantly pushing away the possibility of transparency and spending public money like it's yours. No, it's Croatian citizens' money.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203337	Time. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203338	And I will mention it to everyone and tell everyone who doesn't do it right and who didn't do it right, and that's where I don't think it should be done, and you've raised that very question and, and that's how you called it, so that's how I brought it back to you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203339	The next replica is the distinguished representative Tomislav Žagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203340	Thank you, Vice President HS. Dear colleague Peric, I appreciate your critical attitude towards this law, but I would like to say where I see the key problem. To JLS leaders, and even, not only officials but also officials, the salary height brings the representative body and the leader, the coefficients and, and the basis and there is a terrible disproportionateity in the Republic of Croatia. There are those who, I say, work for 2.500,00 kn as volunteers, and there are municipal commissioners who have, let's not say too much now, but there are certainly those who have 12-13.000,00 kn. If he can press, so to speak, his representative body will vote his salary so high, he can certainly press him and grant him the costs for the team. And in that sense, I see this law to see how much it spends, so that's for all of us, believe you can see who and why and how much it spends. Can you make order in JLS, it's certainly a story for the future, I think about the height of the salary, especially the officers who are not in the same position.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203341	Replica reply, distinguished representative Grozdana Perić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203342	The basis for a height or coefficient is, in fact, the legal basis of the Ministry of Administration, they are ranges, and then according to that and force, the financial power of each JLS determines and actually the basis, the starting base which will actually be the basis for the calculation of salaries. Therefore, it is something that is given to each unit to have in accordance with its capabilities and it brings a representative body. I'm also that regardless of which unit it's concerned that the heights of the team are really limited in some percentage because it might be much, much more appropriate, so that it wouldn't be, it doesn't go into any kind of will.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203343	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, the esteemed representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203344	Thank you very much. Here, from my colleague Peric, I heard that Zadar is one of the most transparent cities, although it could not be said of Zadar or Zadar County. However, I will return to the beginning of this story, which is a colleague of Grumoja and said, if parliamentary representatives can make a transparent announcement, I am from Sinj with travel expenses and here I am in the assembly every day. My colleague is from Vodice, you're from Zadar, my colleague Sanader's from Split, someone's from Omis, I'm here every day, four years, I haven't missed a day. So whenever the council was sitting, I was there. Whether it's good or not, that's another question now, we're not gonna talk about it. However, which is why cities would not be. The mayors, the mayors of numerous, all of them had transparently published all their expenses, from presentations to, I just cartooned the lambicides, but why wouldn't it be public and transparent? I don't see any reason for this proposal to be rejected. He may be able to complete this, but I don't understand you saying it's populism. How can that be populism? You know what populism is? When the prime minister comes to the press and says I don't give a travel order to Helsinki, where he's on a state plane to party meetings, I don't know who he's with, I'm going to repeat to Junker, Tusk, fascist Thailand, I have no idea who he was meeting back then. It's populism. I'm God on earth. When he says I'm God, I'm, he's bleeding for his country, he's a hero, he's everything, there's nobody there, there's no noise anymore, there's no noise when he says it. The defamation of the Commission for the conflict of interest whatever we think of it and whether or not we should upgrade it around the commission, is not necessary, but the fact is that the first man of the Croatian government chosen by HS jest is the body chosen by the Commission for the conflict of interest, i.e. It's called the head person. In such a way that someone behaves, and then even whines when he's called his pedestals as Mr. Jandrokovic what no one called a day, but when he speaks to me, of course Miro Bulj from the village peasant, you're a cobweb, you're, I don't know all the names, panj, I don't know all the names, and he's a hero, you've seen all the Republic, there's nothing a commission can do to him. Maniri, Brusselsian, unbuttons and tells reporters who you are that you're looking for a commission to give that bill. And who is he? Well, it's not his nephew. That's the message of this whole thing. Public and transparent to Andrej Plenkovic to announce where you were in Helsinki and what are the costs? President HS, I'm as a parliamentary representative who's got one 10-15 times more votes from you asking you, I've got more in the village, just so you know, which is a very small village, another province than he's got in the entire constituency. I'm asking you to publish it, so what's the problem with publishing the travel expenses? We must not humiliate these institutions, at least the prime minister, even we parliamentary representatives, and we can make a legislative statement from the position, but someone from the executive position, demeaning the body chosen by the representative. The Committee for the Conflict of Interests which should be fought against corruption because all of us in the Assembly are parliamentary representatives, we come under the bat of the public, justifiably,unjustifiedly,it is a fact, but the prime minister irrelevantly, it was about A. Plenkovic, tomorrow about I don't know about who or before he was, he can't tell which committee it is, who they are, what is this message? What kind of message of transparency is that? Instead of saying yes, I'll deliver it and I'm not ashamed and I'm not afraid, if I'm guilty, it's no problem. No, when anything is mentioned to him, anything, A. Plenkovic, it's a problem, it's a whine, it's a race, it's a mess, it's chaos and its associates. So the public must know and the citizens must be equal at this point. So the Committee of Conflict of Interest is the body this House has chosen. And who is A. Plenkovic or M. Bulj to humiliate or anyone? It's either you or it's irrelevant? I believe that the humiliation of institutions, the non-transparent departure in Helsinki or this case at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is essentially justified by such a law, whether it should be further complemented, changed, probably necessary, but the fact that the executive's behaviour towards the bodies elected by the Parliament is disastrous and humiliating for the development of democracy and the fight against corruption, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203345	Thank you. ... And he doesn't have a right to a replica, okay. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Next individual debate, no, loses his right. Last debate, Mirela Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203346	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I'm sad when there's a theme on the repertoire that can at least be minimally subdued by Ustashas and partisans, then it's a lot more here and this one can't, how many of us here? Two, four, six, seven, devastating, eight. It's devastating. It's devastating for a civilized country or a country that likes to be called one. This is a topic that is finally interested in Croatian citizens and what I would like to do here is to try several times to cover up the current situation by explaining how the foundations of financial reports and reports on the implementation of the budget that are submitted to the FINA monthly, quarterly or submitted to the representative bodies of municipalities and cities, county, half-yearly and annually, allow citizens to see where their money was spent. I want to stop this deception because everyone who ever carried executive power knows that's not the case, and you know it, Secretary of State, which is in those reports. Namely, the Croatian citizen's economic classification of intellectual services and the amount of 100 planned, 50 done, does not mean anything at all. The Croatian citizen would have much more meaning for Hanžekovic's Attorney's Office on 7 May 2020. 50,000 for the purpose here and there, paid that and that budget, that's transparency, but it doesn't suit anyone. Only 4 units of local self-government in the Republic of Croatia correspond. It is also not appropriate to see someone spending budget reserves on catering or spending the mayor on travel expenses of 45 000 or 50,000 kuna per year, and this is not seen in the financial reports mentioned here. She would like to say something about transparency or about the transparency assessments conducted by the Institute of Finance. Let's not fool the public. We know what the Finance Institute estimates. Take note, the annual implementation of 2018, the half-yearly implementation of 2019, the draft budget 2020, the voted budget 2020 and the budget in small or so on. budget for citizens with illustrations and charts that must be published on the website of units of local self-government and you are super transparent. And you're super transparent, please be careful, the Omisalj municipality didn't publish the budget in a small year because it cost, so it wasn't the most transparent. Ladies and gentlemen, let's not deceive the public. Let's introduce transparency, show the citizens where and where we spend their money, who we buy or don't buy their money. Let us not be afraid to open this budget and show what we do with other people's money. Would we be interested in seeing who's spending what on our money? And you're not even aware that our money is involved. Finally, my colleague Grumoja, I will once again commend this initiative of your club representative, yes, it is, it is one of the steps towards full transparency of the budget but I will here as long as I allow, unfortunately, we have very little more time since we follow the very quick elections, persist from this position or any other, to finally give citizens what is theirs, to give them insight into who responsiblely, purposefully spends their money and who makes their money do something else not to repeat myself, we know what.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203347	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, but there are replicas, I apologize. Dear Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203348	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, I would agree with the beginning, of course, of the whole debate, most of all stressed the beginning of which you said was the debate on II. svt. The war, the Ustasha, the Partisans, there would be a lot more speakers reported, but the epidemic itself obviously, but it's not an epidemic, I think even this is good, I've known the essence in some ways very terrified here in the assembly. I'm having a hard time with those topics, too. However, I would stress here one thing that the Croatian people, regardless of people, means our citizens, ideologies, the world's horizons, which are the wealth of democracy, and we must look through that simply this law contributes to transparency. However, if we have the head of the country of man, here is Kolinda Grabar Kitarovic, in Zadar, called for presidential elections to fight corruption as a candidate and the president of the state, the government comes and says, so who will order me to give the Committee for the conflict of interest of travel costs in Helsinki. So this law would stop me from doing it, at least that step to make it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203349	The next replica is the esteemed representative Leakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203350	Dear colleagues Ahmetovic, we really have too many leaders of our cities, our county, the municipalities who say look, you chose me in Sunday's elections, the third week of the 5th month and now the 4th. I ask that you no longer answer and ask me no more, you have chosen me, and I will spend your resources as I consider it most appropriate. So let's say the mayor of the City of Zagreb believes it is more appropriate to spend the funds, for example, for these powerful waste baskets, on which he then puts the Croatian coat of arms or the coat of arms of the City of Zagreb, in different forms and sizes. So let's say he thinks it's also normal to send his driver on the official road that shows that he's actually a pig's car, that the crosses, that they're funerals, that he's extracting potatoes in Herzegovina. And also, Mr. Mayor Bandic believes it is normal for him to pay for, say, the official route for television leaders to buy, so shoes in the city of Vienna. Therefore, it is not true that we as citizens and citizens must not question, we must question the holder of the executive authority, us who are now in the legislative authority and all those who exercise authority at local level.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203351	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203352	My colleague Leakovic, it is amazing to me that we are even discussing whether citizens need to know or not. Well, this isn't a hot water discovery. Someone also mentioned the cost of apps. So the Municipality of Omisalj spent 47.000,00 kn very transparently for the application and all the support of the application to publish all the costs, each lip spent by the municipality, and from the source of Croatian citizens' pockets. Well, that's not exactly the kind of cost that you couldn't handle a state budget that should be transparent the way the Omisalj municipality is. About my colleague, I won't even comment on the mayor of Zagreb. Once a colleague from Bakar said that I have my own style of coming to power, so here's my style, that's my style. Transparency is my style. And the fellow mayor has some other style and he's doing it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203353	The next replica is the esteemed representative Branko Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203354	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleague Ahmetović, I congratulate you on the transparency and the way you run your municipality, but don't also downplay everything that the Institute of Finance does. You just said yourself that you didn't have a budget in small, and the budget in a small way simply presents to our citizens how complex the budget is. So it's not totally transparent, and you didn't get your grade, and that's why you're frustrated, so you're disrespecting what the Institute of Finance is doing, which is wrong.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203355	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203356	Thank you very much for your observation. My fellow MPs, namely, I didn't tell you in detail, I didn't have a date on which to look for the Institute of Public Finance published on the web pages of the budget in a small one but I had it just printed, so I published it better, but I was maybe 2 or 3 days late. And so, I turned out not transparent enough, so with grade four, not five, so next year I gave my services a warrant to make sure we were the first to publish all the documents so that someone wouldn't call me untransparent. But I still insist that the criteria used by the Institute of Public Finance are not based on which transparency can be measured or not because intellectual services or material costs do not mean anything to a citizen. The citizen means the name and last name, amount, date and purpose of spending their money.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203357	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, the esteemed representative of Nikola Grmo.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203358	So, I won't be long, I think it's all said, that we have defended the need to pass this legislative proposal, that transparency as far as counterpart Peric is concerned is not populism and the struggle for transparency in Croatian society is not populism. This law is necessary. The relevant regulations do not allow Croatian citizens, nor us parliamentary representatives, nor the Anti-Corruption Council HS, nor institutions such as the Committee for the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, insight into certain costs incurred during the conduct of public duty. Unfortunately, this commercial majority, this government, whose pillars are Plenkovic, Vrdoljak, Bandic, Pupovac, Saucha and others, do not want transparency, do not want to fight corruption and are unfortunately acting as mere corruption. The targets of corruption in the Croatian embassies, of corruption in the Croatian government, of corruption in Croatian politics, of the Croatian judiciary. MOST will fight it, it will be our topic, it is our trade mark, you can't take it from us and you won't take it, the face is the only thing we have in Croatian politics and that's why we will fight, and colleagues Peric, you can be nervous about it, you can feel called on, but this debate wasn't about you but about those who protect this corruption and who don't want to allow transparency in Croatian society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203359	Thank you. Here's the thing. We've exhausted the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. We'll be back at 9:30 tomorrow. Amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the Advocate General. Thank you. SESSILE INTERNED IN 19.08 HOURS
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203360	Proposal for a Law on transparency of costs in the performance of public duties, first reading, P.Z. No. 658. It is proposed by the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists. The debate is closed. In accordance with the government's opinion and the proposal of the parliamentary working body, I am voting on the next conclusion. The proposal for a Transparency of Costs Act in the exercise of public duties is not accepted. Who's to say that? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that most of the votes have come to the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies, so 64, 62.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203361	The next item is: Proposal for a Law on Transparency of Public Service Costs, first reading, Bill No 658 Proposed by MOST Independent Lists under Article 85. Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the first reading of the law shall apply to the debate on the agenda. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the government delivered an opinion. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? The esteemed representative of Nikola Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203362	Thank you, Vice President. In this assembly session, we have addressed a lot of legislative proposals, most of which were about improving the position of our citizens, but also about fighting for transparency because we consider transparency to be the only tool in the fight against corruption. Only through transparency can we reduce and curb corruption in Croatian society. We have shown this as a club of MOST on many occasions and when we talk about the past of which a colleague spoke before me and there we need transparency. That is why, if you remember in the first one, in the second one, we are calling together the assembly, but while it was still the government of the MOST and HDZ before Bozo Petrov resigned as meeting president, we forced the MPs here to vote on the Archive Law. This is what we wanted to conclude the story of the past, this lustration that everyone calls so much in Croatian society is only possible if we open archives. And that's what we did. We made you vote on it. When the archives were opened, what you did, after MOST came out of the government when the file of some of your high-ranking members was actually Prime Minister Plenkovic's chief advisers, like Vladimir Seks, who turned out to be a co-worker of UDBE means under the code name of Kolega you decided to close the archives here. Today we have a similar attempt. Before you disband this assembly, we want us to, we cannot pass the law, but we can at least direct it to another reading, show the willingness that this act here, which is before us, may be in another assembly or in the new assembly of the Croatian Parliament, has been adopted. It concerns transparency in the costs of public duties. A similar register, because it would be some sort of cost register of Canada and Ireland. I've had several press conferences on this issue of our law when we first referred it to the procedure, and I've shown to the press in the press room on screen what that register looks like in Canada. Things are very simple. Every body for its official, if that's for example. Here we will take the city of Sinj, so the service of the city of Sinj for Mayor Sinja all its expenses are published in that register, everyone is in charge of publishing, the law is actually required, the publication of expenses for their body or institution. And every citizen types the name Sandra Križanac and comes out all her expenses, for each, for each item. So, if it's about a lunch team, the item comes out means lunch, the purpose of why she went with a certain person to that meeting or lunch and the bill that supports that cost. This would make the job and the public much easier for them to question costs but also for journalists. So remember that affair of "spic rat" this former Minister Tolusic, we would know where he was, where he went, whether he was in Zemun or not in Zemun, we wouldn't have this one, that one, we wouldn't have this operation actually SOA, where SOA determined whether it was Minister Tolusic based on the shape of shoes or not, so it would all be, that this now looks funny, but it's not funny, so much would be more transparent and the media and the public would be able to find out based on one of these registers. Therefore, it is all the costs incurred during the conduct of public duty. And when we talk here about the Croatian Parliament, which is hated in the Croatian public, I don't know if you fellow MPs are aware that this is one of the more transparent institutions on this issue because all our expenses are public, publicly published so that this law in that regard, as far as the MPs themselves are concerned, would not change anything too much except that everything would be in one place and parliamentary representatives and mayors and mayors and the other, the other officials. Here, Miro, Mito points out here and the vice president of HS Antu Sanader this probably means, probably thinking about, probably the Split-Dalmatia County and the costs that are happening in Split-Dalmatia County so that, in that sense, there would certainly be an increase in transparency for these bodies, for the counties, county institutions and others. I wouldn't spend your time here, the law is simple, the law doesn't require large funds and actually an application that would be needed to make it very easy. Canada has that, actually established in a way that register or that application is located on the Ministry of Finance's website. I don't suggest that it be arranged in such a way, it can also be on a special website, so the question is just technical, technical implementation, but things are very simple, you shouldn't hire new people because, so people in these institutions and institutions would be in charge when there's a certain cost to bring it in and here's what I expect if nothing, since this is actually the last or last week of this assembly I'm convinced when the vote that you're going to support this, nothing costs you, first reading, this one is not special, this one you won't contribute to the cost of politicians being visible because it's only the first reading, but you'll show one intention and willingness to do it. According to the announcements, I see that people support this, that they want the cost of politicians to be published in one place and here, I expect your support. The opposition is behind this bill. I have seen that some of the ruling majority, since the end of the call was ready to sign, but they are a little in fear, so here you are from the strongest break in the ruling coalition encourage and support this legislative proposal. We'll show that we're not afraid of anything. After all, when the government took these measures to help the economy, everyone asked for public disclosure of who had received these support, and then why not on the other hand. Let's let the politicians see, we citizens pay that money through taxes, taxes, donations, let's see how we spend it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203363	Thank you, Mr. Grmoy's representative. He has several replicas, the first respected representative, Marko Sladolev.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203364	Thank you. So, dear colleague Grmoy, I don't see any reason why this law wouldn't be supported. We have always had some reasons why opposition laws are not supported by the need for additional budgets, this law does not require any budgetary means, that in the preparation of a new law, therefore, there is no reason for this crisis that follows us where the lines will be in front of the soup kitchens, the citizens do not know what their money is spent on. Here, we have Mr. Secretary of State coming from like, so there's a lamb popular dish and this one I think citizens should, so we should know if there's a lambicide going on about politicians and do the citizens even want politicians to spend on that money?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203365	Thank you. Here you go. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203366	Thank you. Dear colleague of Sladolev, I couldn't agree more. So, citizens are particularly sensitive to the cost of politicians, to the waste of their money, I would say it's their money because it's the money they pay through taxes, taxes and donations. The secretary of state isn't from like, but he's from that county of Licko-Senjska, so this one, and we know that there's been a lot of things going on there and there, and it's all happening, although now there's a conflict of factions of these HDZs, so it's probably a little bit more control because there's a fear that, if they don't call each other and conflict, maybe now they're spending a little less.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203367	Thank you. The next replica is Honorable Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203368	Well, my colleague Grumoja, there's a lot of things. Transparency, even one of our colleagues, a caterer sued him for eating a herd and a half lambs along with... So as far as I'm concerned, here's just my Split-Dalmatia County, have they had peace so far, it's been... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Peace was. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] When I showed up then they strengthened the pyr service, so they hired 3-4 new ones, and you in the piar spend more on cream than I do on make-up than I do on, for, for, for, for, for, for food a month. It just says how much they invest in something you don't need. To defend indefensibly, they spend money on levels, mostly the county, that no one will ever find out if it is open publicly and transparently and that it is mandatory to be legal. If we Parliamentarians are rightfully aware of our expenses, what is the reason for you local i.e. and the regional leaders and their structures don't publish that data? Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203369	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203370	So, as far as these county costs are concerned, it's, it's now a special cost story at the pyr, we all know how unfortunately certain units of local self-government, as well as units of regional self-government, county, are spending on media advertising. It's another story and, of course, it's something to talk about, but here we're talking primarily about the cost of officials, and this law would make it much more transparent, and then we'd be careful how they spend money. We have seen, by example, some cities that have introduced meanings publicly published the entire budget, all the items, that it is then and somehow the control of the public much greater, then the officials themselves are looking out for the way money is spent. So this law is actually a small step in that direction, but it certainly is necessary and what my colleague Sladolev said doesn't cost us anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203371	Thank you. The next replica is the distinguished representative Tomislav Žagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203372	Thank you, Vice President. My dear colleague Grumo, you're modestly saying, this is a great law. Believe me, most, 90% of the officials would support this bill. . /. Supported by this law-so-end professor, I think that geography and one more piece, I don't know, my colleague Bark, in Novi Bukovica the head of the municipality, works at two two schools, the head of the municipality, he's so-called. Volunteer, he got a fee of £2500, he doesn't have a card, he doesn't have an official car and so, I believe there are a lot of such municipalities in the Republic of Croatia, mayor of municipalities and even mayors who don't spend money. Let those who spend, how they spend, and why they spend it be known. And those who have, as much as anyone who has a fee, as much as anyone who has a salary, who is a volunteer, who is not. Let it be known, that would be very good and believe that 9 out of 10 mayors of the municipalities would be safe and perhaps even the mayor would be for this bill of yours.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203373	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of the Grmoi.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203374	I agree with it that surely this law would affect the fact that there's no such thing as a perception that they're all the same. Not all of them are the same, not all of them are the same here in the Croatian Parliament, not all local mayors and mayors are the same, not all of them are probably the same, so we need to separate the grain from the weeds, this law goes in that direction, in fact to make those who are irresponsible to the budget money stop, and those who behave responsibly, to praise them, I have nothing against it, anyway.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203375	Thank you. The next replica, the esteemed representative Leakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203376	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Grmoy, you have expressed hope like all others, in fact, those who have spoken so far are colleagues, that this law will be passed but, let's say hypothetically, who might it be and why could it be in the Croatian Assembly against such a law? You must have thought about it too, you have the answer to that question and the other one is actually about what you said in the end, which is that the Croatian government has made a transparent announcement to which of the employers has given support to workers, that is, in part, true, so it has published a list of employers in unsearchable format, so transparency with restraint. It was very difficult to search and see who actually got these support until an NGO actually made it available to the Croatian public in the right way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203377	Thank you. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of the Grmoi.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203378	This is what I said in the debate that we have now and certain transparency for individual bodies, I mentioned the Croatian Assembly but we do not have in one place transparently all the costs and here would be published means all the costs of officials, members of the representative bodies of local self-government units, these are all council members in the counties and in the cities and municipalities, the heads of the administrative bodies of local and regional self-government units, presidents and members of the management boards of local and regional self-government companies, directors or directors of institutions, agencies and other legal persons with public authority who are the founder of units of local and regional self-government. So it would be covered by this law by a broad spectrum of people, or duties and officials.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203379	Next replica, distinguished representative Branko Juričev Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203380	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, fellow Grumoya, you said we were voting for this bill, and that shows we're not afraid of anything. We are not afraid of anything, and we have shown this by adopting and adopting a number of other laws because there is no information that any citizen or newspaper who wants to know or through a report or through the Law on the right to access information cannot come to.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203381	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of the Grmoi.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203382	Dear colleagues, that's a lie. So you're not a lie I believe said on purpose, but it's a lie that any citizen can access the data. As parliamentary representative, the president of the third club in power in the Croatian Parliament, member of the Anti-Corruption Council of the Croatian Parliament, for 2 years I cannot reach the travel orders in Australia which she has made means Mrs. Loretta Bertosha Kushen, who made diplomat Damir Sablak, the father of two girls because he discovered corruption in the embassies, away from the service, and this morning I've been troubled here, if I can't get to it who I've already become and I'm bored with the subject myself, but because of this man I promised not to leave him, I'm not giving up on the subject, I'm acting like a pitbull, so how can a regular Croatian citizen? I don't mean ordinary, every man is equally valuable but a citizen of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203383	Thank you. The following are the discussions, and the committee's rapporteurs? There's no one on the board. Does the Government's representative want to further explain and give an opinion? Dear Secretary of State Darko Nekic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203384	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, and I would like to welcome all the honourable MPs and MPs. So, the government of the Republic of Croatia has manifested itself in its opinion that it does not accept this bill and in several sentences I will try to expose here why the Government does not accept this bill. In view of the proposal for a law proposing to set up a register of costs incurred in the exercise of public duties, the Government of the Republic of Croatia points out that the matter covering the draft law relating to the publication of officials and according to the proposals, the public and transparent spending of budgetary money, is already regulated by budgetary, tax and accounting regulations as well as the rules on the right to access to information and regulations governing the prevention of conflicts of interest. The Government of the Republic of Croatia also considers that transparency in the spending of public funds is clearly regulated by the budgetary regulations, in particular the Budget Law and the Fiscal Responsibility Act, taking into account the fact that the legislative framework prescribes and publishes annual financial reports of units of local or regional self-government, budgetary and extra-accountary beneficiaries of the State Budget and the budget of local and regional self-government on websites, which also show information on expenditures for official travel and expenditures for representation. When it comes to this section relating to the regulation of the obligation of the Ministry of Finance to be responsible for the credibility of the recording of the data entered in this new register that you propose to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Ministry of Finance points out that it could not be responsible for the credibility of that recording, since the above-mentioned budgetary regulations clearly state that the Head of the Unit of Local and Regional Self-Government and the Budgetary User is responsible for the legality, purposefulness, efficiency and economic availability of budgetary resources. The government also considers that the register proposed to establish that bill is not intended since the data it would already contain is now publicly available. Also, the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interests is arranged to prevent conflicts of interest between private and public interest in the conduct of public duties and to regulate bonds of conduct to the provisions of the meanings of this law. Finally, the Government considers that the existing regulations make available and prescribes mandatory transparency of information regarding the costs of public duties as prescribed by officials for transparent action. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203385	Thank you. I'm opening a debate, and Grmoya, I'm sorry, the replicated representative of Nikola Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203386	Dear Secretary of State, it is incorrect that the current regulations allow this kind of transparency. If that were true, I would now sit here on my cell phone and type the name Loretta Bertosha Kushen and get the travel orders I've been looking for for two years. So, throw away this law, say we're afraid of transparency, we're afraid of everything being publicly visible, but don't make me here next to mine still hope for common sense, healthy logic and eyes to cheat that it's now available to me when it's not.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203387	The answer, the Honorable Secretary of State, Nekic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203388	I'm going to try here from this place, so I'm in my presentation to say means the reasons why the government doesn't accept the law, but I would add another one, and that's that exactly what you said will be available for about 6 months to a year that right from your phone when the project comes to life means the Centre of shared services and digitization that we now have that opportunity. So, the government has built a legislative framework, and once we've completed the digitisation projects, you'll have that possibility, without any change in the legislative framework. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203389	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. The first club is the registered representatives of the Most Independent Lists, the respected representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203390	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, the Honorable Representative of the Government, the MOST Club has proposed to mean something that is quite normal and a colleague of Grumoja, on behalf of the promoter of the MOST Club, has made simple arguments that this is very easy to see in other countries and that this needs a legal framework, i.e. I simply think that at this point if anyone is doing everything against digitisation, against electronic voting, against everything, then the Covid virus has suddenly started to digitize, no more triba stamps, no more triba nothing, and in fact you are graves of transparency, and that is proof not only that you do not accept this law, but also on the subject, and you know very well the referendum initiatives that have been untransparently annulled, the will of the people, 400,000 people have collected signatures and that this problem has been solved, that you have given the people to vote, you have spit out, the Government of Andrej Pupovac, Milorad Pupovac, Vrdoljak and Milan Bandić have spit out 400,000 people who have gathered in their faces, 400,000 people who have collected signatures that we have something transparent. Here, in the election of representatives in the Croatian Parliament, will one of us vote for it and not accept it or disagree with it this is another thing, but the fact is that you have put more mud on intransparency against digitisation, against the will of the people than anyone else and you are witnesses of it. So we voted here when we talked about transparency, we voted against the referendum here. Most of them without having evidence of invalid signatures you said had 40,000. If we got it, we didn't get that opportunity, and you're saying that in half a year, you're going to be transparent, you're going to present 20 counties with a transparent cost, so that's your boob you suck if you don't have you without it a respected representative of the government. You're a witness, you know that very well. The first step in order for everything to be transparent, we must first look into the eyes of the people. I come from Sinj and I have travel expenses, perhaps most but it is known that I was in the assembly today, that every day I am in the assembly, that I am an active representative, to propose, to try, as far as the people say, I have done my best. If I'm any more, maybe I am, maybe I'm not, and someone else is going to judge. And why wouldn't we in the county know it in public? So who are they, who gave them 52 more powers, for three months we debated here to pass on powers to them and an even bigger budget. They're the Pharaohs, you know what you've done? So, your county is a flow water heater from central state to local self-government, according to Vrlica. It's that money up to Vrlika di no more people, unfortunately because of this kind of policy that we have non-transparents. In a flow water heater, what should be contributed to health care in Vrlica, in the Island, in Sinj, in Gorski Kotar, in Omislje, does not matter di, ends up in a flow water heater, but full of rocks. So what now? Stone untransparent until pain. Not only are we talking about politicians to us MPs what the tribune is public and transparent, but we are talking about the transparency of these institutions that have stalled the development of the Republic of Croatia, 2/3 of the Republic of Croatia stands. Concessions on maritime well-being, here's my colleague Sanader knows, their coalition partner in the county, my colleague is Sanader, president of the HDZ Club, I'm the president of the Most Councilman's Club, he has to be given to a member of the Bene coalition in order to have a hand down in the Split-Dalmatia County. So our beaches, beaches or examples tell you about transparency when we're talking and this is simple, fellow Grmoja is river triba to publish it and let it be known. You have an example in the island were a few elections, the Sinj Island, the Dalmatian and were local elections and the election was lost and the deputy mayor of the municipality who lost in HDZ was a veterinarian by profession, all right. However, when it broke out, lost the election had no dibs on it, so they put it as the director of a construction firm owned by the county, the famous one company Cetina who had a brand of 50-60, of course it was brought to the bottom. One low-building company was a renowned company with quality people, machines and very large-scale heavy jobs worked on numerous, demanding jobs throughout the area not only of Dalmatia, but of the Republic of Croatia. And of course who's going to be getting the agglomeration contests now, we see that the prices are rising when our companies are destroyed like that. There's nothing different about appointments, transparent appointments. You lose the election for Mayor Omis, be good with Anto Sanader, it's easy just to be there for him, no problem being home manager for the elderly and powerless. And now, of course, Beroš, the team of Chile, the pictures, the television, they're dying, they're staying home, everyone at home, they're all bored, they're scared, they're afraid, they're yelling Beroš don't let us go into nursing homes until the 25th, where they're powerless, and the virus's on fire, and the man says, the director of the nursing home, Mr. Skaričić, here's 10 days they've had some kind of temperature of her 15-ac bit escalated and what you're about to do. So, it's not just transparency, I'm in favour of being published transparently, but it's a problem because you're coming from that section of the ministry that when we talk about transparency then local self-government would of course have to publish as much as for example. Is the stone foundation or for the same projects open so far? I've known them by now. I can count them. That's why, before each election, I lay all the stone foundations so that these wouldn't be great costs for lambicides is all lambicides, so someone asks for this lamb in, in, colleague of Sladolev's in Lica, it's a mess with a colleague of Sladolev's. When you pass Licom, they were swept away by them instead of encouraging the lamb to develop agriculture and livestock, they ate them both lambs and mothers without any problem, nor who saw how paid, nor was paid, so it was even meaningful to me when I saw that a fellow representative, he was the head of the municipality, I can't remember the name, not often in the assembly, from my constituency, not something active, but mostly from Zadar County, that he was sued by a catererer that ate his flock and by these lambs, I mean it's official data, herds and lambs, that this lambicide was unlimited. It was, I mean, I'm not gonna say it was for the Hague, but it was an ai and it was in a court dispute. And I don't know, I can't get enough of the names, he's here, the chief's Jesenica is, I don't know, I can't get enough of the names is not an active man, I can't get enough of all the MPs when I'm 150 I haven't seen but 15 in this 4 years. Except when it's a vote. So it's not a problem with me anymore. And imagine, the same herd of lambs and, and, and, and to the parents. So, missing in that area where they were supposed to be grown, so that's where they're headed for the Pasha part of the lamb they're clocking and now they're in court. So what are those municipalities doing, I mean how it works, destroying the caterer, destroying that farmer who was a cattle farmer. So that's the unfavorable damage in that area. But mostly, I was a little... But transparency is very important. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] But here I was thinking today about something very important in the 21st century because of the slowness, ineffectiveness, because of what depends on the mayors, about this, so when I see 800,000 acres of land undivided, you know what intransparency is? We've been through the Agricultural Land Act 20 times. I even proposed a law in emergency procedure, yet it did not give it, although it would triangulate the essence of the measure to divide agricultural land, to bury agricultural land. In my Dalmatia alone, 20,000 acres of land is unprocessed, in Dalmatia I speak, 20,000 acres. It could hurt, it could hurt, it could feed 11 million people. I can do the same as the promoter, don't worry, you didn't get rid of me if you thought you got rid of me, water me so behind the lamb down the same.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203391	The next debate is, and on behalf of the promoter, the esteemed representative of Nikola Grmoi.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203392	I thought of a situation I had to react to. The secretary of state said that everything is actually available now, and then I caught up with this case I always talk about, and I didn't think of one of the major affairs of this Plenkovic government. You remember the Helsinki case, therefore, the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interest has suspended the procedure, said the prime minister violated the principle of public duty but that the procedure cannot continue because they did not receive the documentation. What are we talking about? So, the current regulations also prevent both the public and the media, which is the worst and the institutions of the Croatian state that should check whether anyone is in conflict of interest or not because they can say as Prime Minister Plenkovic said, I will not submit the documentation. And there is not only Prime Minister Plenkovic, so there are several prominent government officials and officials or HDZ politicians. So here's the deal, here's what I'm going to find on Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, Davor Bozinovic, Deputy Prime Minister and Head of Civil Protection Staff, Parliament Speaker Gordan Jandrokovic, Vice-President Zeljko Reiner, Prime Minister Marko Milic, former Minister Tomislav Tolušić, Lovri Kustevic and Nadia Murganic. Therefore, no proceedings were initiated against them because of the lack of the necessary documentation to the Commission, as the Commission could not establish the relevant facts. So here you can see that it's not available. If available then this application would mean who went and when in Helsinki, the plane map, if it went with the government plane then it would have been written that it was going by government aircraft, for which purpose, to a party or it could not be a party, but it would have to be the one for the purpose of government affairs, but obviously they joined together, both party and government duties, and in fact it was only a meeting of the European People's Party and then it was justified by some state affairs. So here's just this example shows that this application, or this law, is very much needed because it would oblige officials to make everything public and transparent. Now we do not have such a commitment and Prime Minister Plenkovic can freely say that he does not want to deliver the documentation and this was in fact a failure of the Committee to prevent conflicts of interest and the commission has shown impotence because the prime minister did not want to deliver the documentation. So, I appreciate that you came here, I know that Minister Zdravko Maric refused to make a statement at all about this law because he is aware of how harmful it is to be against this law and this is assigned to the Ministry of Administration and you are sent here today because it is not easy to defend something that is so logical and necessary and that we would all support it, and not here would be a colleague who I respect actually defends the position of the Government here, and she is aware that such an attitude is indefensible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203393	Thank you. We have two replicas. The first is Commissioner Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203394	... Excuse me, my colleague Grumoja, you encouraged me to ask you, can you imagine when once the Committee on the Prevention of Conflict of Interests does not want the Prime Minister to provide information, what it looks like when an ordinary citizen asks for data based on the right to access information. [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]] And I'd ask the secretary of state, no matter who's in charge of accessing information to decide whether or not he's going to give it to a citizen when he's looking for access to his own money information about his own money? We have seen how citizens have the right to see how the budget reserves of the City of Zagreb are spent, not only indiscriminately but in this particular team that we are talking about today and that we want citizens to always have the right to access.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203395	Thank you. Answer, Mr. Grmoy's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203396	Dear fellow Members, I was already responding to my colleague when she said that the regulations were now made possible, it is quite clear that it is not because the commission cannot receive information and travel orders, it is not possible for the Anti-Corruption Council of the Croatian Parliament, I am not the only one who asked for it, President Jovanovic, who is the chairman of the National Council for the Monitoring Strategy for the Prevention of Corruption, we have not received travel orders for these embassies, nor do we see that the commission has won. So, an ordinary citizen has no chance of getting something if the officials, the powerful, are not in the interest of the citizens coming to this.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203397	Thank you. The next replica is Honorable Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203398	Thank you very much. Well, you've had enough of your colleague Grmoy, the Committee of Conflict of Interest, come the Prime Minister, travel through Helsinki with a plane as if it were his own, no commitments, there are party gatherings, Juncker, Tusk, those with whom I have no notions, with my friends who are absolutely neither concerned about Croatia, but the important thing is that he is reputed and he tells the entire Croatian public, who is this commission, I give, I am free of Croatia, I am the foundation of the Croatian state, I am the basis of the law, there is no law above me, which Parliament, which is of conflict of interest, I am, what God above me, I am, I have manners, I know 4 languages, I know I have a hairline of good, young, I am weak, what is that people of fathers, who care? And that's the bottom of Croatian democracy, the man who presents himself to the greatest Democrats is the bottom of democracy and the promoter of corruption in, among politicians.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203399	The answer to the esteemed representative of the Grmoi.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203400	I agree with Andrej Plenkovic, everything I thought of him, that's what I said. He, along with the President of the Parliament, is in fact the match of corruption in Croatian society, the protector of corruption in the Croatian embassies, and I have documented this myself, these are not the flat-rate claims and false accusations, according to the President of the Parliament. I have evidence that they protect corruption in our embassies, and that a man who would be rewarded in every normal country for professionalism, for patriotism, for being truthful, and for being away from the service. Against such Croatia, Plenkovic, Jadrokovic and other diplomats who abuse their service I will continue to fight here in the HS public, and with Damir Sabelak and the applicants of irregularities I will always, I will always stand behind them.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203401	Thank you. The next replica is Commissioner Leakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203402	Thank you, Vice President. A fellow Bolt, it's very important, therefore, to know what is being spent on. But it's also very important to know who it was spent with, so who was at that lunch, who was at that dinner, which was the purpose of that meeting. We know today that in Croatia lobbying is not arranged in any way, so we also know that, let's say, journalists and anyone else can't get information about some secret meetings that Prime Minister Plenkovic, Minister Obuljen Koržinek and some other members of the government recently had in the Croatian government. So, secret meetings with the editor-in-chiefs of selected Croatian media, we will probably never know what was agreed at these meetings because we do not have mechanisms, so neither we as parliamentary representatives nor journalists, or through us, can the public ever know what actually Prime Minister Plenkovic met with parliamentary elections agreed to follow, whether, the Croatian Democratic Community, in those elections.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203403	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of the Grmoi.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203404	Yeah, that, that's another topic that wouldn't be solved by this bill, but unfortunately it's about part of the Croatian media. It speaks of how those who question corruption either having no space in the media or being attacked by these media, and how the man who is the prime minister, whose money, whose state-owned companies are advertised, agencies, ministries, through, even worse, EU funds in these presses, has protection and support in implementing their policy. That's another problem, he needs to be talked about, it's very important, but here we are, unfortunately, where we are, I hope that the political consolidations will change, and that all of this will be questioned. And the role of the media in maintaining this corrupt government.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203405	Thank you. The next individual debate on behalf of the Club of the Independent Youth List, Tomislav Panenic, is missing. He's losing his right. The next one is Branka Juričev-Martinchev's representative on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203406	Thank you very much, Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. My colleagues and colleagues. This proposal for a law on transparency of costs in the performance of public duties submitted by the Association of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, the HDZ Club will not support because transparency in the spending of public funds is clearly regulated by already applicable regulations, of those accounting, tax, budgetary, rules on the right to access information to rules on the prevention of conflicts of interest. Just now, on behalf of my colleague, Grmoy, he was also talking about a few cases. I would also point out and remind the promoter that this law provides only for the establishment of another register, means additional costs and jobs for the administration, from those in institutions, cities, municipalities, counties, to those in the Ministry of Finance, but they also do not foresee any legal provisions in the event of a breach of that law, as he believes, that in certain cases the Law on the right to access information was violated. The Budget Act and the Fiscal Responsibility Act are prescribed to publish annual financial reports. So, municipal councils, city councils, county councils, they have a legal provision and a obligation to submit certain reports, as well as their institutions. So reports of institutions and companies go to those councils, assemblies or government and parliament, depending on whether their founders or owners are municipalities, cities, counties or even the Republic of Croatia. The mayors and mayors, the municipal chiefs, are responsible for the legality, efficiency and economy of the availability of budgetary resources and they, by their signature, approve each of the travel order and the cost of the team, and thus correspond and it is inappropriate that the Ministry of Finance is responsible for the credibility of these documents. The data that should be contained in this new register are already publicly available, as I have also said under the Law on the right to access information is regulated and publicly available to all those who wish to have insight into the costs we are interested in, and the obligation by means of transparency is to each official and according to the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest. The proposal states that this effective mechanism should be put in place, for three purposes, firstly that taxpayers' money and other public funds should be used with sound and responsibleness and in order to achieve public interest. This should be done by every mayor, mayor and mayor and, as I said, when submitting the report, you can see the amount spent on official travel or representation and any one who does not use those funds responsibly, very quickly his citizens, those who have allowed him to come to that position, have the right and the obligation to manage them responsibly with that money, if not, will be sanctioned. The second objective is to ensure that all costs incurred in the exercise of public duties are necessary and justified and previously approved by authorised officials. We know that every year the Office of State Audit comes and oversees the work of each unit of local or regional (regional) self-government and, among other things, supervision and spending on official travel and representation and each of these accounts must be signed and reviewed by several persons. The third objective, according to the promoter, is that the public has insight into spending taxpayers' money and other public funds and, as I said, can, through reports available to all council members, parliamentarians, MPs and thus to the public. And as stated by his colleague, Grmoy, here's an example. The costs of Assembly representatives are publicly announced, we can say only for 2019, as my colleague Bulj himself said, amounting to €112,000, and then colleagues of Sladoliva 0 kn, but it is also necessary to know that even my colleague Bulj did not use the hotel, everything is seen for which amount is separate for which purpose. We have the inscriptions often and the headlines of the most thrift mayors and heads of municipalities who, with only a few hundred inhabitants, have a representation greater than the city of Split, all of them indicate that all the data we want is available to us, but I will repeat that certain cases cannot and will not comment specifically if it is a violation of the law and this law to be in force tomorrow, and it can be violated. Every travel order is signed by the one who travels, then signed by the mayor and then the mayor. The team also signs the mayor's signature and writes who consumed those meals and drinks and for which reason the cost was created. Any such account may be reported for irregularities, may be reported by the host’s employee who consumed this meal and drink to the person who came into his hands, from the employees of the protocol, accounting, controllers, etc., and each of them may report irresponsible spending of public money. In February 2019, we also adopted the Law on the Protection of Reporters of Irregularity, tomorrow we are discussing amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the Ombudsman, where a new service, the Office for the Protection of Reporters of Irregularity, is being established. The Institute of Finance conducts research and analysis of the budgetary transparency of all Croatian counties, cities and municipalities and awards. We see that lately more and more transparent businesses and counties, they have an average rating, I don't know, 4.9, cities 4.3, municipalities 3.8, etc. This law provides for the establishment of the management of the register, collection, registration, processing, archiving, enabling registration and updating of data, etc., I think that at a time when we all swear to reduce the costs of administration, rationalisation of public administration, when we are looking for a more efficient public administration that must be at the service of citizens, that we must try to simplify the functioning of that administration, that it is at the service and assistance of both our economy and our citizen, this proposal brings new costs, but we must unfortunately recognise the slow administration. The government has reduced the number of agencies, the office, it has transferred over 200 jobs to the state administration and thus reduced by 600 employees, rationalised the administration for 600 employees. These are all reasons why the HDZ final club cannot support this proposal of the Law on Transparency of Costs in the performance of its duties because it does not stand as a result of its proposal that there is no monitoring mechanism responsible for the spending of public money but as much as possible, a number of regulations regulate this approval, supervision and transparency. I will now be able to quote the president of the Most Independent Lists, says the only Most who swears to rationalise the public administration is seeking new commitments and is looking for new means to implement their ideas so let the citizens pay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203407	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, the esteemed representative of Nikola Grmo.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203408	My colleague, so I understand that you must defend this irrational decision by the Government to reject this law, but in the case of Helsinki, in the case of these expenses in Australia, we could not get to that data. The documentation on every road or cost, there's in every accounting, you just need to scan them and publish them on this app, there's no cost, you're actually not here to say that the Irish and Canadians are crazy, so we're in HDZ smart, so both the Irish and the Canadians don't know anything. the costs of the application are irrationally published and make no sense of it. If what you're saying, that this is a lie, I'm not just going to show you an example of your officials, I'm going to take an example of Radir Cacic. The state audit found that Radimir Cacic listed half a million kuna on the team in Varazdin County in 2008 spent 530,000 kuna of which on catering services 366,000 kuna. And the State Audit asked him to answer where he spent all that money? You know what he said to them, meaning the State Audit, I'm briefly nice to them, so I quote, "I told them in a short time that all that they care about is asking their mom nicely, since they can't do me." So you can see colleagues cost total, but you can't see where, what and how spent and for what purpose. That's what we're looking for. We know that the government spent on a trip to Helsinki, so we can probably get to the amount and it's going to be somewhere I don't know if we can get to the total amount that's been spent, here's to government. We can go to the mayor's office. We can't do that about the government. And we don't know for what purpose, whether it was for the purpose of a party trip, whether it was for the purpose of state affairs, whether everyone who was on a government plane went to state affairs, and obviously not because there were some who weren't even ministers. So it was clearly a party trip. And what you're saying, I appreciate and respect you, but what you're saying just doesn't stand, just doesn't stand, and it doesn't make sense now that we're still arguing here, that I, because on concrete examples, I prove to you that what you're saying is not true. And it doesn't make sense, so we have seven or eight days left of this assembly that now you have to defend something that doesn't stand. When the vote comes, I know that you will listen to what the government has said, you will reject this legislative proposal, unfortunately, but there are no excessive and rational arguments for what you claim. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203409	Thank you. Replica, distinguished representative Branko Juričev Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203410	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, I have to correct you, my colleague, and you said that the implementation of this law does not require any means to be provided, that you, in the opening section, have said that in order to implement it, it is necessary to provide 200,000 kuna for 2019 alone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203411	The answer to the distinguished representative of Nikola Grmoi.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203412	So, fellow Members, 200,000 kuna, that is the maximum amount this application would cost once and for all, would no longer be necessary to spend on the implementation of this law. And how much money would be saved by it, means that everything is transparent and that these local leaders, that business directors, various agencies around the county are afraid of whether anyone will get that data. How much, I guarantee you in the first year to save a few million kunas, perhaps more, these are conservative estimates of mine. A few million kunas in the first year. So the law would save, this law would save money, and wouldn't cost money for Croatian taxpayers and Croatian citizens. It's just for making an application, but maybe an application can be made for less money, so we put some kind of maximum amount of what it could cost.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203413	Thank you. The next debate is the esteemed representative of Hrvoj Zekanovic, he is gone, so he loses his right. The next debate is Commissioner Mirela Ahmetovic, SDP Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203414	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, I am pleased to discuss this law today, this proposal for a Law on Transparency of Costs in the exercise of public duties. This law proposes the management and publication of a register of costs incurred in the exercise of public duties concerning travel costs and representations of officials. Every bill on this trail of praise is valuable, and praise is worth it because it aims at opening citizens up the opportunity to follow and control how their money is spent. And that's why the SDP will support this proposal. However, I must also point out some shortcomings in this bill. It is incorrect that the bill states that there is no real mechanism to monitor the responsible spending of public funds and their necessity and economic justification. Namely, such a mechanism exists in reality for absolutely all costs, each spent from the budget of cities and municipalities, but in just 4 out of 555 units of local self-government in the Republic of Croatia. Of these four, local self-government units are led by SDP officials and 1 by HSLS and an independent official. And this mechanism, ladies and gentlemen, is available to the entire public, not only to the residents of these units of local self-government but to the entire public, so I invite you here to look at the Omisalj municipality website, for example. www.omisalj.hr For example, you enter the word income and look at the absolute income of all employees in the management department of Omisalj Municipality, enter the word lunch, enter the word photocopier paper, enter any word, and come up with complete, transparent information about the name and last name of the company to which it was paid, about the address of the natural or legal person to whom it was paid, about the amount paid, about the purpose for which it was paid, about the date when it was paid as well as about the economic classification or the item of the budget from which it was paid. So that's what complete transparency is and it's a mechanism that controls the spending of public money, and not only that, but also the purpose of spending on budget items. The lack of this, although a very well-intentioned law or bill is also the fact that it will not win the achievement of the stated objective, which is that taxpayers' money and other public funds are used wisely and responsibly and for the sake of public interest. Ah, why won't that goal come true? Because this proposal does not allow for unintended spending of funds precisely for the purpose of the national team. The example was the accidental spending of funds precisely on a team in the city of Zagreb, where Mayor Milan Bandic of the item "a budget reserve" spent funds for the purpose of the catering team. Budgetary reserves are spent on caterering, but there is no budget reservations for the reconstruction of the city of Zagreb after the aftermath of the earthquake. With this register, too, the cost of lunches paid from the budget reserve is difficult to make available to the public, if there is no state audit and if the state audit information is not given in some media, and we know how the media operates today. There would also be no information available on the withdrawal of millions of cash from ATMs, such as in Virovitica or in Skabrnja where public money is managed by HDZ officials and spent cash on representation and overnight expenses, and as the audit concludes, the withdrawal of money is not even recorded in the accounts. These are examples of the behaviour of HDZ officials and their Jokers. Also, we in the SDP consider it unnecessary to enter into the law the monitoring of the costs of the team or the travel of the head and members of the council. Why? Because in the proposal for a law under the term "obligor", it includes, among other things, the head of the administrative bodies of units of local or regional self-government as well as members of the representative bodies of the unit of local or regional self-government. This is wrong because, by virtue of the Budget Law, they are not responsible for the implementation of the budget, but are executive bodies, mayors, mayors and mayors, so it is sufficient to define the cost of the representation in general or universally based on accounting criteria, regardless of who implemented this cost. The fact is, that all the corrupt actions involved in spending public money are directly or indirectly approved by whoever is responsible for spending public money, and we said just before who is, unfortunately the fact is that the problems of the corrupt actions of ministers, directors, directors, directors of public institutions and businesses, headmasters and others in Croatia are being resolved possibly in a way of political care and this political care of these individuals to other positions of power, and those who have actually enabled such behaviour, which allowed such illegal spending of Croatian citizens' money, remain intact under the prescription I did not know. Ladies and gentlemen, citizens don't trust us, none of us are even obliged to believe us. Why would they trust us? Why would they trust us when they're lied to, stolen and intellectually harassed on a daily basis? Who are we to even have citizens trust us? Why would they trust us? Those who are under USKOK's indictment for falsifying travel orders and taking the citizens' money from the state register are now under the ruling political coat. Here in the House they come faithfully and obediently to raise their hands for proposals of the ruling because the ruling counterfeiting of travel orders and thefts from the pockets of citizens does not mind. Yes, as long as they raise their hand. And he'll raise his hand for a new state's attorney. They'll pick the state's attorney, please be careful. And the D.O.R.H. needs to stand behind that charge. If it wasn't tragic, it would be comical. Comrade Grmoi, my proposal is far simpler. Let us pass a law on transparent spending of public money in general, at all budgetary levels, at national, regional and local level. In all institutions, in all agencies, in all trading companies owned by a majority state and units of local or regional self-government in such a way that all, but absolutely all accounts, all payments, regardless of the purpose, from the salaries of officials, from the salaries of employees, the costs of lunch, travel expenses to the cost of obtaining photocopier paper or the costs of building construction facilities, recorded in business books are visible and available to the public via the Internet and comparable to planned items of the budget of local or regional self-government or in the final line and the state budget. This would avoid, or at least to the public, the theft of public money through suspicious or criminal public procurement, the bribery of officials or officials at positions of power, the purchase of votes by stakeholders who gather a large number of voters, as well as the establishment of a commercial voting machine in the Assembly. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the ruling majority will not accept this law, let alone the insight into every kuna, in every piece of spent citizens' money, and I don't mean just because they don't accept any amendments and no one's bill proposals, no matter how high they are, but simply because such a law would make them stop corrupting. But citizens already have the option in July to choose whether to control the spending of their own funds or the situation of things where HDZ mayors and mayors are allowed to raise their millions with ATMs and spend them on restaurants. Comrades and colleagues, it is time to give the citizens what is theirs. It makes me uncomfortable both as a man and as a politician that reality is such that in this room I often have someone to say to me, fingers to myself, bills to the sun. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203415	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, the esteemed representative of Nikola Grmo.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203416	So, as for these suggestions of yours, I have no problem with that, this is the first reading, but unfortunately here are the intentions of the ruling parliament, I was hoping we'd be able to discuss this law, he was referred to the procedure a year ago. It can be repaired, certain things can be inserted into another reading through amendments, and I also have nothing against any broader law, but I think this law would be a huge shift so that maybe better with those who want to hide certain things, you might go with some milder therapy although it would be good, I called today and this morning for the DORH to be decommissioned, so I agree that we need more radical demands, so that what you have made as remarks, we are absolutely open and hopefully here, if not in this Parliament's session, then in this new one we will be able to change and fix this law, and if not, we will bring this one that will be more comprehensive.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203417	Next debate, distinguished representative Tomislav Žagar on behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSU, SNAGA and Independent Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203418	Thank you, esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. I will seek in a brief debate to express the position of HSU, independent representatives and SNAGA that we will support this legislative proposal by respecting the remarks of counterpart Ahmetovic, who spoke on behalf of the SDP, we believe that this, as the promoter said, is one step forward towards the transparency of spending public money, this is very important in the Republic of Croatia. This morning we saw a debate about the key man of the DORH, that the low level of trust of the people in the institutions of this country and I said in the replica, a colleague of Grmoja and I am convinced that, most of them, I said 9 out of 10, most local leaders, mayors and mayors, would not be able to claim for mayors such a proposal. They have nothing to hide. counterpart Ahmetovic said well that there are some municipalities and cities that show it transparently, many should be invited to still show it because many have nothing to hide. And this law would only help like that. So this law would help those who do good, who have no reason to hide anything, to make it transparent. The truth is that what we want to achieve goes beyond not just the level of this law but the level of one ministry, it concerns several ministries. Take only public procurement, how many fingers are involved in public procurement, so it is Eldorado for many leaders of local self-government units, the city of Zagreb is there ahead, and of course for many entrepreneurs who, under the patronage, say politics, get jobs from day to day, from month to month, year to year. I've said it a few times here in Parliament, so give it to every man, choose one man, give him a good contract, see what a good entrepreneur will be, only if it's a good contract through public procurement that's been set up. So, this law has a good intensity, a good sense, should be supported because it would allow those who work honestly to see it and can't and can't mention the town of Virovitica, so there happened that every working day, watch every working day, just last year, every working day someone with an ATM raised 5 to 10,000 kuna and no one noticed it. So it just shows how much they're ratios and how dangerous it is that some things aren't shown transparently because there are cases like this. Of course, local self-government leaders, mayors have this greater opportunity, mayors of larger cities, of course, where there is more money, is there, municipal chiefs here and there, have the opportunity to use some of the funds for their promotion and do it regularly, and then through the team it is shown as a specific meeting where it is actually politically agreed, politically eligible, looking for future voters. That kind of thing would be clearer if it were an obligation to show it in the register. Comrade Grmoy, you rightly say, unfortunately, let's assume that we will not be able to do another reading now in this assembly of Parliament, hopefully in the next session, that neither will this authority, that the opposition will come to power, and that then, that this law is passed because why, I told you that it is modest when you said that only in one part of this law is good, there is no reform of local self-government without clean bills. That must be clear to everyone. The reform of local self-government starts with self-government itself, and when counterpart Ahmetovic mentions those who do well, so these people, tomorrow they can be the drivers of reforms, they know how money is spent transparently, they know what's best for their community and to say it the simplest, only they can estimate that their municipality and neighbouring community can be paid back, why, because they will be better off, not to them personally but citizens will be better off, they will withdraw funds from EU funds, they will keep representative bodies that they now have and let them agree that they will be the leader, they want to be from one deputy, and so on, but that initiative must go from below. Anything that is forced to say picturesquely from Zagreb will be difficult to pass because everyone will stand in defense and will say I will not give up my municipality, I will not give up my city. And in that sense, this law is also one of the starting points, to see who in the Republic of Croatia, how it spends money, and whether it makes sense for the survival of its municipality not because of him to be punished, although it is necessary to punish him seriously because there are those who have become encumbered in crime. Someone mentioned here, if someone ate too many lambs, it's not an intensity, but to prove to them that this model will not be useful in the future for his community, for the citizens of his community and that something has to change. The club will support your bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203419	Thank you. Next individual debate, distinguished representative Marko Sladolev.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203420	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, honourable MPs, dear citizens. It is therefore clear what the intensity of MOST law is and in the context of the time that follows us. We've had difficult times ahead of us, and now there's a bigger row in front of the soup kitchens, and the citizens will look at every kuna. This law was to be passed long before but especially in these times where citizens will find it difficult to see, live, where they will actually watch how their money is spent they need to pass this law. Me and my colleague, Grmoja, were at the presentation of the book The Black Book and the spending of the public money of the Lipa Association, where we remained shocked that they reported, how much, in fact, the public money of the citizens of this country spent on completely unnecessary things. They, truth be told, also presented state subsidies and problematic public procurement in that book, but one of the items was spending on lunches, dinners, cards, filling fuel, and they themselves said that the item was the hardest thing to look for when they were doing the Black Book. They mentioned these famous Zagreb pillars, plastic columns, in Zagreb there are columns that guard other steps, one column costs 100 euros, you have a column and about, 10 around it, 10 new pillars because the pillars guard the steps and all the citizens pay for it. And it is interesting that we who are often on the ground and when we were at the stands with, when you talk to some citizens who belong to another option supported by the mayor at the moment of Zagreb, they themselves say he steals, but also gives. Yeah. And then I'm the lady who told me, so I know he's stealing, but yes, he said you have Mrs. 200 kuna. She says I have, I took her that 200 kuna, and what do you think I'm gonna take those 200 kunas now, and give you back 100 kuna, would you be happy with that? So citizens need to be aware that it is their money, so budget money is their money that they are paying into the state budget and that every politician should be responsible for these money. So, this law, this intensity of this law is that mayors, not just mayors, and other officials actually spend their money more rationally at the moment when each kuna will be visible. So, I don't know, this business lunch that he's ready for, which he really doesn't need in times of crisis won't work because that citizen will be able to see, because that local portal will publish, our mayor at times when the crisis is in the government, when there's no money, spends on business so lunches, where it won't actually be useful. What I remember is that one of the items in that Black Book was the spending of public money when one mayor at the opening, I don't know, someone.../incomprehensible/... some entrepreneurial zones spent millions and millions of kuna on fireworks, yes. And these millions of kunas could employ 10 new young people. So that's what it's all about, so he's more, so that this register somehow gets him to go into that sort of thing at all. So, and I believe that this law, here's my colleagues before me, were saying that we should expand the law and yes, and that it would save a lot more money, but this law will, believe me, if you bring in millions and millions of kunas just because it's going to prevent some things. So we're open to all suggestions, all suggestions, we'll see how they vote, we're here to propose, to fight, and I believe the citizens will recognize that.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203421	Replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203422	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague of Sladolev. So, first of all, the leaders, they are also officials, but let's not forget, when we talk about public money, Croatian forest, Croatian road, Croatian water, JANAF, many public companies in which there are, not only large salaries but there are, betraying cards are used, official vehicles, and then severances that are often being manipulated to get severances and so, sometimes people get severances and they come back to work and believe me, the interest of parliamentary deputies to make it transparent. The interest of parliamentary representatives above all because parliamentary representatives with the right to strike the public most, but parliamentary representatives do not have official vehicles, have no cards, and that is why it is our aim, first of all, to pass laws that will follow the spending of money. We are responsible for this if these companies spend their money as they wish.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203423	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203424	You remember my colleague, Žagar, when there was a Commissioner for Information who supported me in my request to publicly announce which parliamentary representatives at the expense of the Croatian Football Federation went to games, which were paid expensive hotels and she even supported that law, and I think the government said it was a secret piece of information because HNS is not funded from the state budget. I think the public should know which MPs went to the HNS because we also bring laws here on sports that concern exactly the HNS.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203425	Thank you. Next debate, replica, the esteemed representative of Nikola Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203426	I gave the line so I wouldn't go out again. So, a colleague of Sladolev's touched certain costs and unreasonable spending of money in the city of Zagreb, and a colleague also spoke of a comprehensive law, this can be easily done, e.g. amending the Budget Law, but then the State should provide all units of local and regional self-government applications, free applications. If we were to commit them by law because it was your will that you in your local self-government unit implement it, but if we went by law to commit it means all units of local and regional self-government, then I think it would be correct for the state to provide them with that application, which would save them huge resources at the state level. So it's not about your will that you've shown, it's about making a commitment to the Budget Law, so it might be easy to solve this one, but it needs political will.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203427	Thank you. The next individual debate is the distinguished representative Grozdana Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203428	Dear Vice President HS, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. This law seems to me that it came to me precisely for the purpose of even a little more pulsism here and in this way it actually shows that some colleagues use it very skillfully. Personally, I don't have any problem with showing all the budget costs, etc., for many years I've been leading it, lying about it, responsible for it, and I don't think it's the crime of every major of ours, the mayor of HDZ because HDZ's that a priori has done anything wrong. So we have examples, for example. Ms. Mayor. Lovric Merzel, so we have an example of the Mayor of Saba, so we have an example of ministers who were in Las Vegas, etc. So, if we're going to get muddled, then we can just throw ourselves at each other. However, it is the responsibility of each individual mayor, mayor, mayor, and the current laws of the Budget Act and the Fiscal Responsibility Act clearly define what is and how is to be followed. After all, we also have the media that have sought hundreds of them and the analysis of the individual spending of money in the city of Zadar's budget, and thus they have come up with all the information on travel costs, on this team, etc. Therefore, it is not something that is closed and unreachable and therefore cannot be accessed and every man, every official must certainly be responsible for what he does. It's very amazing that when some say you can't see what was going on in a jury account, then it's amazing to me because every transaction was this one or that one is seen to be something touched, downloaded, paid, etc. Thus, no one can tell me that this cannot be reached and determined. When we talk about the budgets, then unfortunately, and when the state budget is here and when the extra budget users are then few MPs discuss it, ask, question, etc., and I personally also believe that this must be questioned and that both state-owned companies and the costs and contracts agreed there and everything else must be taken into account. Therefore, this law is not consistent at all because when costs are monitored then they are followed by the principle of the place of cost and then this cabbage, which in this way would present to the public, would be even more misleading, because you can see that for the day-to-day political purposes everything can be used, and which is not good, because then in many situations and what has been done properly, can be presented completely different. I therefore believe that in this way, as this law is imagined, it would not be much achieved because I say everything can be obtained, everything is published, and in the end we, as representatives in certain segments, are important and significant to behave responsibly in each of our actions.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203429	Thank you. We've got a few replicas, the first respected representative of Nikola Grmoi.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203430	My colleague Peric, after each of your presentations in HS, I remain surprised, I can't believe what I'm listening to. So for you it's transparency of populism, the fight for transparency is your populism. And where did you hear during my discussions that I was hitting on anyone? I didn't mention any of the cases except when I tried to explain to my colleague that it wasn't true that there could be documentation. In my opening statement, I did not mention any name at all, nor did I deal with HDZ or SDP mayors and commissioners. You obviously felt called, and then you started hitting on others with mud. I'm not saying it's just HDZ thieves, I didn't say it. I said we needed this law to reduce the abuse of public money. And in your vicinity You're from Zadar, you've got a Victor Rifle who spent £200,000 on the team. [[Intruder: Time]] Here, that's an example if we're going to talk about an example.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203431	Reply Honored representative Grozdana Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203432	I don't feel called, I'm only talking about arguments, I didn't mention you, and what you're feeling called is your idea and your insinuation that you would question everything, I think you've missed the profession, that you should have been something else. [[/Clip intrusion: What?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203433	Okay. The next replica is Honourable representative Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203434	Your Honor, you mentioned the cases of Sabo and Merzel. These cases have been prosecuted or have been brought before the judiciary, and I welcome that. I really welcome it all the way. In fact, I encourage the judicial authorities to place the most severe penalties on anyone who puts their fingers in a jam, whether white or black, HDZ or SDP. But what I don't see is that the efficiency of the judiciary and the speed when it comes to HDZ's fins of unintended spending money, I mentioned Bandic and I'm not afraid to mention Bandic. I will also mention Mayor Clay, I will mention the Mayor of Obrovec who spent 1,000 kn every day for a full year on food and hotels. I will mention them all by name and name, and I will mention the party when it comes to HDZ and when it comes to SDP, however. And I don't know why you're constantly pushing away the possibility of transparency and spending public money like it's yours. No, it's Croatian citizens' money.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203435	Time. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203436	And I will mention it to everyone and tell everyone who doesn't do it right and who didn't do it right, and that's where I don't think it should be done, and you've raised that very question and, and that's how you called it, so that's how I brought it back to you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203437	The next replica is the distinguished representative Tomislav Žagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203438	Thank you, Vice President HS. Dear colleague Peric, I appreciate your critical attitude towards this law, but I would like to say where I see the key problem. To JLS leaders, and even, not only officials but also officials, the salary height brings the representative body and the leader, the coefficients and, and the basis and there is a terrible disproportionateity in the Republic of Croatia. There are those who, I say, work for 2.500,00 kn as volunteers, and there are municipal commissioners who have, let's not say too much now, but there are certainly those who have 12-13.000,00 kn. If he can press, so to speak, his representative body will vote his salary so high, he can certainly press him and grant him the costs for the team. And in that sense, I see this law to see how much it spends, so that's for all of us, believe you can see who and why and how much it spends. Can you make order in JLS, it's certainly a story for the future, I think about the height of the salary, especially the officers who are not in the same position.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203439	Replica reply, distinguished representative Grozdana Perić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203440	The basis for a height or coefficient is, in fact, the legal basis of the Ministry of Administration, they are ranges, and then according to that and force, the financial power of each JLS determines and actually the basis, the starting base which will actually be the basis for the calculation of salaries. Therefore, it is something that is given to each unit to have in accordance with its capabilities and it brings a representative body. I'm also that regardless of which unit it's concerned that the heights of the team are really limited in some percentage because it might be much, much more appropriate, so that it wouldn't be, it doesn't go into any kind of will.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203441	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, the esteemed representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203442	Thank you very much. Here, from my colleague Peric, I heard that Zadar is one of the most transparent cities, although it could not be said of Zadar or Zadar County. However, I will return to the beginning of this story, which is a colleague of Grumoja and said, if parliamentary representatives can make a transparent announcement, I am from Sinj with travel expenses and here I am in the assembly every day. My colleague is from Vodice, you're from Zadar, my colleague Sanader's from Split, someone's from Omis, I'm here every day, four years, I haven't missed a day. So whenever the council was sitting, I was there. Whether it's good or not, that's another question now, we're not gonna talk about it. However, which is why cities would not be. The mayors, the mayors of numerous, all of them had transparently published all their expenses, from presentations to, I just cartooned the lambicides, but why wouldn't it be public and transparent? I don't see any reason for this proposal to be rejected. He may be able to complete this, but I don't understand you saying it's populism. How can that be populism? You know what populism is? When the prime minister comes to the press and says I don't give a travel order to Helsinki, where he's on a state plane to party meetings, I don't know who he's with, I'm going to repeat to Junker, Tusk, fascist Thailand, I have no idea who he was meeting back then. It's populism. I'm God on earth. When he says I'm God, I'm, he's bleeding for his country, he's a hero, he's everything, there's nobody there, there's no noise anymore, there's no noise when he says it. The defamation of the Commission for the conflict of interest whatever we think of it and whether or not we should upgrade it around the commission, is not necessary, but the fact is that the first man of the Croatian government chosen by HS jest is the body chosen by the Commission for the conflict of interest, i.e. It's called the head person. In such a way that someone behaves, and then even whines when he's called his pedestals as Mr. Jandrokovic what no one called a day, but when he speaks to me, of course Miro Bulj from the village peasant, you're a cobweb, you're, I don't know all the names, panj, I don't know all the names, and he's a hero, you've seen all the Republic, there's nothing a commission can do to him. Maniri, Brusselsian, unbuttons and tells reporters who you are that you're looking for a commission to give that bill. And who is he? Well, it's not his nephew. That's the message of this whole thing. Public and transparent to Andrej Plenkovic to announce where you were in Helsinki and what are the costs? President HS, I'm as a parliamentary representative who's got one 10-15 times more votes from you asking you, I've got more in the village, just so you know, which is a very small village, another province than he's got in the entire constituency. I'm asking you to publish it, so what's the problem with publishing the travel expenses? We must not humiliate these institutions, at least the prime minister, even we parliamentary representatives, and we can make a legislative statement from the position, but someone from the executive position, demeaning the body chosen by the representative. The Committee for the Conflict of Interests which should be fought against corruption because all of us in the Assembly are parliamentary representatives, we come under the bat of the public, justifiably,unjustifiedly,it is a fact, but the prime minister irrelevantly, it was about A. Plenkovic, tomorrow about I don't know about who or before he was, he can't tell which committee it is, who they are, what is this message? What kind of message of transparency is that? Instead of saying yes, I'll deliver it and I'm not ashamed and I'm not afraid, if I'm guilty, it's no problem. No, when anything is mentioned to him, anything, A. Plenkovic, it's a problem, it's a whine, it's a race, it's a mess, it's chaos and its associates. So the public must know and the citizens must be equal at this point. So the Committee of Conflict of Interest is the body this House has chosen. And who is A. Plenkovic or M. Bulj to humiliate or anyone? It's either you or it's irrelevant? I believe that the humiliation of institutions, the non-transparent departure in Helsinki or this case at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is essentially justified by such a law, whether it should be further complemented, changed, probably necessary, but the fact that the executive's behaviour towards the bodies elected by the Parliament is disastrous and humiliating for the development of democracy and the fight against corruption, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203443	Thank you. ... And he doesn't have a right to a replica, okay. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Next individual debate, no, loses his right. Last debate, Mirela Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203444	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I'm sad when there's a theme on the repertoire that can at least be minimally subdued by Ustashas and partisans, then it's a lot more here and this one can't, how many of us here? Two, four, six, seven, devastating, eight. It's devastating. It's devastating for a civilized country or a country that likes to be called one. This is a topic that is finally interested in Croatian citizens and what I would like to do here is to try several times to cover up the current situation by explaining how the foundations of financial reports and reports on the implementation of the budget that are submitted to the FINA monthly, quarterly or submitted to the representative bodies of municipalities and cities, county, half-yearly and annually, allow citizens to see where their money was spent. I want to stop this deception because everyone who ever carried executive power knows that's not the case, and you know it, Secretary of State, which is in those reports. Namely, the Croatian citizen's economic classification of intellectual services and the amount of 100 planned, 50 done, does not mean anything at all. The Croatian citizen would have much more meaning for Hanžekovic's Attorney's Office on 7 May 2020. 50,000 for the purpose here and there, paid that and that budget, that's transparency, but it doesn't suit anyone. Only 4 units of local self-government in the Republic of Croatia correspond. It is also not appropriate to see someone spending budget reserves on catering or spending the mayor on travel expenses of 45 000 or 50,000 kuna per year, and this is not seen in the financial reports mentioned here. She would like to say something about transparency or about the transparency assessments conducted by the Institute of Finance. Let's not fool the public. We know what the Finance Institute estimates. Take note, the annual implementation of 2018, the half-yearly implementation of 2019, the draft budget 2020, the voted budget 2020 and the budget in small or so on. budget for citizens with illustrations and charts that must be published on the website of units of local self-government and you are super transparent. And you're super transparent, please be careful, the Omisalj municipality didn't publish the budget in a small year because it cost, so it wasn't the most transparent. Ladies and gentlemen, let's not deceive the public. Let's introduce transparency, show the citizens where and where we spend their money, who we buy or don't buy their money. Let us not be afraid to open this budget and show what we do with other people's money. Would we be interested in seeing who's spending what on our money? And you're not even aware that our money is involved. Finally, my colleague Grumoja, I will once again commend this initiative of your club representative, yes, it is, it is one of the steps towards full transparency of the budget but I will here as long as I allow, unfortunately, we have very little more time since we follow the very quick elections, persist from this position or any other, to finally give citizens what is theirs, to give them insight into who responsiblely, purposefully spends their money and who makes their money do something else not to repeat myself, we know what.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203445	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, but there are replicas, I apologize. Dear Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203446	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, I would agree with the beginning, of course, of the whole debate, most of all stressed the beginning of which you said was the debate on II. svt. The war, the Ustasha, the Partisans, there would be a lot more speakers reported, but the epidemic itself obviously, but it's not an epidemic, I think even this is good, I've known the essence in some ways very terrified here in the assembly. I'm having a hard time with those topics, too. However, I would stress here one thing that the Croatian people, regardless of people, means our citizens, ideologies, the world's horizons, which are the wealth of democracy, and we must look through that simply this law contributes to transparency. However, if we have the head of the country of man, here is Kolinda Grabar Kitarovic, in Zadar, called for presidential elections to fight corruption as a candidate and the president of the state, the government comes and says, so who will order me to give the Committee for the conflict of interest of travel costs in Helsinki. So this law would stop me from doing it, at least that step to make it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203447	The next replica is the esteemed representative Leakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203448	Dear colleagues Ahmetovic, we really have too many leaders of our cities, our county, the municipalities who say look, you chose me in Sunday's elections, the third week of the 5th month and now the 4th. I ask that you no longer answer and ask me no more, you have chosen me, and I will spend your resources as I consider it most appropriate. So let's say the mayor of the City of Zagreb believes it is more appropriate to spend the funds, for example, for these powerful waste baskets, on which he then puts the Croatian coat of arms or the coat of arms of the City of Zagreb, in different forms and sizes. So let's say he thinks it's also normal to send his driver on the official road that shows that he's actually a pig's car, that the crosses, that they're funerals, that he's extracting potatoes in Herzegovina. And also, Mr. Mayor Bandic believes it is normal for him to pay for, say, the official route for television leaders to buy, so shoes in the city of Vienna. Therefore, it is not true that we as citizens and citizens must not question, we must question the holder of the executive authority, us who are now in the legislative authority and all those who exercise authority at local level.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203449	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203450	My colleague Leakovic, it is amazing to me that we are even discussing whether citizens need to know or not. Well, this isn't a hot water discovery. Someone also mentioned the cost of apps. So the Municipality of Omisalj spent 47.000,00 kn very transparently for the application and all the support of the application to publish all the costs, each lip spent by the municipality, and from the source of Croatian citizens' pockets. Well, that's not exactly the kind of cost that you couldn't handle a state budget that should be transparent the way the Omisalj municipality is. About my colleague, I won't even comment on the mayor of Zagreb. Once a colleague from Bakar said that I have my own style of coming to power, so here's my style, that's my style. Transparency is my style. And the fellow mayor has some other style and he's doing it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203451	The next replica is the esteemed representative Branko Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203452	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleague Ahmetović, I congratulate you on the transparency and the way you run your municipality, but don't also downplay everything that the Institute of Finance does. You just said yourself that you didn't have a budget in small, and the budget in a small way simply presents to our citizens how complex the budget is. So it's not totally transparent, and you didn't get your grade, and that's why you're frustrated, so you're disrespecting what the Institute of Finance is doing, which is wrong.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203453	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203454	Thank you very much for your observation. My fellow MPs, namely, I didn't tell you in detail, I didn't have a date on which to look for the Institute of Public Finance published on the web pages of the budget in a small one but I had it just printed, so I published it better, but I was maybe 2 or 3 days late. And so, I turned out not transparent enough, so with grade four, not five, so next year I gave my services a warrant to make sure we were the first to publish all the documents so that someone wouldn't call me untransparent. But I still insist that the criteria used by the Institute of Public Finance are not based on which transparency can be measured or not because intellectual services or material costs do not mean anything to a citizen. The citizen means the name and last name, amount, date and purpose of spending their money.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203455	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, the esteemed representative of Nikola Grmo.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203456	So, I won't be long, I think it's all said, that we have defended the need to pass this legislative proposal, that transparency as far as counterpart Peric is concerned is not populism and the struggle for transparency in Croatian society is not populism. This law is necessary. The relevant regulations do not allow Croatian citizens, nor us parliamentary representatives, nor the Anti-Corruption Council HS, nor institutions such as the Committee for the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, insight into certain costs incurred during the conduct of public duty. Unfortunately, this commercial majority, this government, whose pillars are Plenkovic, Vrdoljak, Bandic, Pupovac, Saucha and others, do not want transparency, do not want to fight corruption and are unfortunately acting as mere corruption. The targets of corruption in the Croatian embassies, of corruption in the Croatian government, of corruption in Croatian politics, of the Croatian judiciary. MOST will fight it, it will be our topic, it is our trade mark, you can't take it from us and you won't take it, the face is the only thing we have in Croatian politics and that's why we will fight, and colleagues Peric, you can be nervous about it, you can feel called on, but this debate wasn't about you but about those who protect this corruption and who don't want to allow transparency in Croatian society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203457	Thank you. Here's the thing. We've exhausted the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. We'll be back at 9:30 tomorrow. Amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the Advocate General. Thank you. SESSILE INTERNED IN 19.08 HOURS
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u203458	Proposal for a Law on transparency of costs in the performance of public duties, first reading, P.Z. No. 658. It is proposed by the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists. The debate is closed. In accordance with the government's opinion and the proposal of the parliamentary working body, I am voting on the next conclusion. The proposal for a Transparency of Costs Act in the exercise of public duties is not accepted. Who's to say that? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that most of the votes have come to the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies, so 64, 62.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u181375	And in the end, Mr. Tomislav Sagar is in front of the HSU club, the independent representatives and the SNAGA. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u181376	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I come from how we can beat the cutest county in the Republic of Virovitica-Podravska County, but unfortunately that county will no longer be the cutest. More and more residents of the county have bitter taste in their mouths, and this has also contributed to the shutting down or the future shutdown of the Virovitica Sugar Factory. Namely, the Virovitica Sugar Factory will no longer produce sugar from the sugar beet, which is what we got from the media. After the association of three Croatian sugars in the company Croatian sugar industry in the beginning of 2019 in which Osijek Sugar Factory is owned by the Zito Group Osijek has 40% stakes, and VIR Sugar Virovitica Virovitica Virovitica and Sladorana Županja, owned by the VI Virovitica Sugar Factory, started to rationalise the business of the group. This rationalisation means that 60 workers, as many as there are left, will no longer produce sugar there. Since the crisis of the crown of the virus hit the Republic of Croatia, we have been able to see that they all spoke or most spoke, I am talking about politicians, how agricultural production is strategic production and we need to quickly return to agricultural production because it allows safe food that is affordable to citizens and thus safeguards Croatian production. Some politicians even in public space used expressions that it was a display of patriotism. On the other hand, we see, and the truth is that these problems have not now occurred, these problems have been accumulated for years, there are not enough conditions for such announcements about returning agricultural production as key production in the Republic of Croatia because agriculture has been defined as a strategic branch, and agricultural land of particular interest is not made all of them preconditions to do so. Namely, all of us, who are in Croatian politics, who are involved in politics, are therefore responsible, there is no escape. We will now show for example sugar and sugar tails because it claims that the relative reason for the loss of sugar production in Virovitica and of what, and what else will citizens or residents of Virovitica-Podrava County do than on the basis of the natural wealth of agriculture and forestry, make additional value, and now we are shutting it down? It's completely incomprehensible. But there was a shut-down, they said, because of the inert production of sugar tail, so the co-operatives who produced the sugar beet couldn't produce it at the price that allowed them to survive. According to the calculation, let's say one rough calculation, in good conditions which provides for 55 tonnes per hectare and 300 kn per tonne of sugar beet, which is a good price, when the cost of production is taken back in amounts that are acceptable, the cost of seeds, artificial fertilisers, protective means, oration, international cultivation with savings, disposal of fertilisers, root swings and sowings, spraying and transport can be calculated with profits of around 8000 kn, this profit is included and the incentive of 4000 kuna is included. However, this calculation is extremely sensitive, and when the co-operatives imposed transport costs, taking out sugar tails, they came very quickly to the situation that they could no longer produce and be profitable, then began to negotiate with Slovenian co-operatives, they were offered a price of 36 euros. So it's much lower, about 270 kn lower than it was, than this price is 300 kuna. To conclude this story, by unfair interventions in agricultural production, by unfair and just distribution of support in agriculture, we are coming into this situation. Yesterday, the minister, truth be told, could not say how much, she announced, that there would be cuts in her sector, the resolute ministry, we hope that those cuts will not hit exactly the most sensitive sectors. In the cutest county besides sugar, there's still tobacco left. Agroduhan received the support of 7.7 million kn from the government to survive. Believe me, with such assistance, it won't survive for long, if we destroy agricultural production in such a county and for a given processing industry, then that county has no future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u181377	Thank you very much. Mr. Goran Aleksic holds the position of the Club of Representatives of HSU, SNAGE, Independent Representatives and New Politics. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u181379	Thank you. Dear citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia, I address first and foremost you who have been robbed by the banks of unfair loans. I have a few things to tell you, there are some scandalous proceedings going on in our courts. Here's what I'm finding out from one of the lawyers in the Dubrovnik area that he learned from the insider from the Dubrovnik court, that the Dubrovnik court has decided on the basis of a solution from the review procedure that we who converted CHF loans no longer have the right to compensation. I don't know why the Dubrovnik court would make such a decision. This decision, if it has not been made, is not official, it is certain, but if they have talked to each other so, and if they have decided not to know it publicly, that people who have converted their loans do not have the right to compensation, it is a scandal which is contrary to EU law, which is the contrary to EU judgment C118/17 which, in paragraph 44, clearly and clearly says that those people who have made the conversion of credits, such as in Hungary, have the right to determine whether the conversion is a national court, were brought into a situation as if they had never negotiated a CHF credit and had been compensated by that conversion. In the Dubrovnik court, however, they seem to have made a decision that they will not even artificially do anything and that they will simply refuse such lawsuits and make it impossible for people to come to their rights. It's a scandal. That scandal isn't that unusual. When I remember what the Supreme Court judge did, the President of the Supreme Court, Đuro Sessa, when the RBA bank entered the scandal with an attempt to pressure the courts, when it was said, compared the RBA Bank procedure with my inauguration in the Croatian Parliament and said it is almost the same as what MP Alexic is doing when he talks about the Franak case in HS and brings his colleagues to talk about it, too, in HS. He immediately stepped into the defense of the banks. The second time, Judge Gjuro Sessa stood in the defence of banks right after the review procedure when he said in an interview that we would have the right to compensation only if the conversion was not carried out under the law. Dear Judge Sessa, distinguished judges who do not understand the EU's right and who seem to have you, please read the judgment of the EU Court of Justice C-118/17, in which two very important positions have been made. First, the position is next. If the currency clause CHF is zero, the credit agreement is zero. Another important thing, if a conversion has been made, if legal intervention has been carried out, every consumer who has made that conversion has the right to determine in a national court whether it has been brought into a state of affairs as if he has never contracted a CHF credit and whether the restitution of that conversion has been carried out. The conversion of CHF credit has not been restored. The conversion of CHF credits to principals is not in the state as if it were an initial payment plan with the initial CHF course. The conversion of CHF loans did not repay the amount of interest paid, the amount of the exchange rate was not paid back, the amount of the exchange rate was not charged for use, the unfair use of the money we had in those banks. So, you understand, consider the verdict of EU court C-118/17, do not play with the fates of 18 thousand people who sued banks. Do not play with the fates of 55,000 people who are not compensated by conversion but only temporarily equalise their situation with the euro debtors, and our situation must be even with CHF debtors who have contracted unfair loans. Act in accordance with EU law. You work very slowly, all 0.1% of people got their money based on their court proceedings. You're working very slowly. It's time for you to step aside. Unfortunately, we must go to the EU court and we will have to ask the EU court for answers to questions whether the CHF agreements in Croatia are harmful and whether consumers have the right to compensation, as ruled by the EU Court of Justice C-118/17... Why does the Republic of Croatia not do its job as outlined in EU law? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Why? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u181380	Mr. Goran Aleksic will hold the position of the Club of Representatives of HSU-SNAGA-independent representatives and New Politics. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u181381	Thank you. Dear people, all of you who have been robbed by Croatian banks, I will continue to talk about it, despite the fact that the President of the Supreme Court, Đuro Sesa, compared my transparent public statement on the case with an attempt to pressure the RBA bank into Croatian courts. So, I'm sorry, Mr. Sesa, but I have the right to speak publicly about it, and I'm making up all the facts about it, I'm not in the business of tricks, I'm not making up hot water, I'm only talking about what's true, the truth and the truth. Therefore, people who have converted their loans have the right to compensation, and now I will add to explain why they have the right to compensation and it must be clear to every judge in the Republic of Croatia and to you, Mr. Sesa. Let's start with the art. 41. The Consumer Protection Act, which speaks very clearly of the fact that the consumer cannot give up any of his right to ever, by any law that is subsequently passed, his right to be suspended, may the verdict, anything, be denied by the consumer's rights. And the right on the basis of a collective verdict in the Franak case is such that we have the right to compensation. Let us start with the EU Court's ruling C118/17, which is the clearest in the sense where we had a Hungarian case where also one consumer made the conversion of CHF credit and asked whether she had the right to compensation. The EU court also said the following in paragraph 52, as it first says, "but in this case, as already stated in paragraph 48 of the regulation concerning exchange rate risk determines the main subject-matter of the contract. Therefore, in this case, maintaining the validity of the contract does not seem legally possible as it is, however, in the court that sent the request to evaluate," the EU Court of Justice has made it clear that CHF contracts are worthless because they have a zero currency of credit. In other words, I'm asking a question to every judge in the Republic, if we have a contract saying that a loan of 100,000 francs, 200,000 francs, 500,000 francs, doesn't matter as much as we remove the francs, what have we agreed? 100,000 what? 200,000 what? 500,000 what? If there is no currency there is no contract, it must be clear to anyone who understands the law. Therefore, the scandalous decision on the grounds of the High Court of Commerce and the Supreme Court, which, in the light of the collective verdict, said that only a partial property of the contract was damaged, and the main subject matter was the currency clause CHF. Partial integrity of the main case under EU law is not possible. EU law in a series of judgments has already been established in a series of EU court rulings that no partial integrity of the case can be established but only partial integrity of the contract can be established. So this is a scandalous decision in the collective verdict in the case of Franak and the High Court of Commerce and the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia. There is no partial integrity of the main object. The second thing that relates to the conversions in paragraph 44 says "in this case, although the Dunai case stems from a provision relating to the exchange rate difference originally contained in the loan contract concluded with the bank in the court which has requested to verify whether the said national law declaring unfair such provisions allowed the re-establishment of a legal and factual situation in which the Viennai would have found that such an unfair provision did not particularly exist by establishing the right to recover benefits which the trader unwarrantedly acquired on the basis of that unfair provision". In other words, the national court has to determine whether we have been compensated by conversion, whether we have been brought into a situation as if we have since the beginning of a kuna loan with an initial interest rate and whether on the day of the conversion we are brought into a situation that we have the starting capital on the basis of the initial payment plan and ate our conversion except that such a principal has been recovered overpaid and the corresponding tightened interest. I commend the courts in Vukovar, Sisak, Kutina, Osijek, Rijeka, Zadar, which establish this in their court proceedings that condemn people to overpaid interest, overpaid exchange rates, belonging to tight interest rates, and yet determine the difference between the converted principal and the principal as it was according to the initial payment plan. Study judgment C118/17. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u181382	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u181383	The next presentation of the position, the esteemed representative of Silvan Hrelje, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSU, SNAGA, Independent Representatives and New Politics.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u181384	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I'm sure the last 60 days will remain deeply etched in individual and collective memory. We are at this moment in a sort of Purgatory, an interspace between the general quarantine behind us and the new elections. The quarantine has been challenging and difficult for us, but many of us, many of you, many of you, predict that the crisis that awaits us will be much more challenging and difficult. Many of us and the public pointed out that the crisis is an opportunity, that the crisis is an opportunity for learning and improving and that we need to come out of the crisis as better people. These 60 days we listened to the slogan “Stay At Home” first, some joked as “Home Standing” and then the slogan “Keep Responsible” and slowly passed through the “New Normal” syntagma. I want to share with you a few corona lessons or, let's say, lessons that we should get out of this situation for the past 60 days and remember. If you work in social care, then the word “care ” itself means caring for someone. And who do you have that you care about? Take care of your protégés. Worry and protect, in this system must be the first concern and professional approach, professionalism, profession, political similar employment in this system is always a problem, especially in times of crisis, but this may not be a problem in normal conditions, but in times of crisis it becomes a life-threatening threat to the protégé, for those we care about. The lesson is to protect our elderly and powerless, to protect patients because they are vulnerable and weak, because it is a mirror of our society, to care for the weaker. Corona has ruined our joy of Easter, we have not been family friends, but also that small number of our pensioners who receive resurrections from their municipalities and cities, and they have been denied. It is a little too much inequality for such a small country as Croatia because if the resurrections and the Christmases are a civilizational reach, and there are certain states in Europe, and they have become a civilizational reach of some cities and municipalities, then our task here is to ensure that civilization reach for all pensioners, and not only those who are fortunate to live in municipalities and cities and counties that even have better budgets. Know and remember that after this crown crisis, the pensioners don't beg. Unfortunately, a lot of them are socially endangered, which doesn't mean they're walking around with their hands out and waiting for crumbs. If you listen to them carefully, and you need to listen to them, you will hear that they are looking for a decent life, a life for what they have done, what they have been paying for, and don't, please don't humiliate them as it has been done with new censorships for supplementary health insurance where it is shown as, I don't know, a great gift to the pensioners, and in fact it's about small money and a lot of, ten times fewer people than it's shown in the bill. Please, don't, don't deceive them. Don't scare them and don't mention the cause, Coronal, as a reason for such laws being passed. The profession must not have a membership card and we are appalled because all members of the Staff are practically members of one party. And the last message. Isolating heavy, isolation is difficult, we've all been forced to separate ourselves from our closest, friends, forget socializing, hobbies, certain events, because we people are curious social beings and we need each other, and this has been a punishment for us. But let us remember those who have such isolation as everyday life. Our older citizens who are isolated in their multi-story residential buildings Because they don't have elevators. [[Intruder: Time.]] We don't have the right not to know, we don't have the right to not hear it. Thank you very much and thank you for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u181385	Good morning, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here we will begin with our session today, as usual, with a view on behalf of the representatives' clubs. On behalf of the HSU-SNAGA-independent MPs and New Politics Club, the first representative, Goran Aleksic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u181386	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues. The last exhibit in this SS conference. My first presentation was to the debtors robbed by the banks and my last exposure will also be about debtors robbed by banks. There are two outstanding legal issues left, the issue of the integrity of the CHF contract, these contracts are worthless, but this is still not legally established in our courts. But I would still deal with another interesting subject, which is the question of the right to compensation after conversion. The Court of Justice of the EU C118/17 unequivocally found that, after the conversion carried out under the law, each consumer has the right to determine in the national court whether the conversion was made to recover all illegally acquired funds, its illegally acquired money which the bank has earned to the detriment of the consumer who has contracted those unfair contractual provisions with the bank and where the bank, on the basis of those unfair contractual provisions, then robbed that consumer for years and years by charging them and charging them with much more than they should have been. So I first of all give this statement to all the judges of Croatian courts because they are the ones who have to go deep into the problems that have to understand this problem, who must not interpret the law like someone above me said, so I will judge. Because, in fact, there was a review procedure in the review procedure found that the conversions were valid, they were valid under the law because they were carried out by law, but if the contract was invalid then they were not valid, then they were worthless, and in addition, despite the fact that the conversions were rolling we still have the right to compensation. And I'm going to give an example of my credit to what it looks like. So I took out a loan from, I'll only talk about kunas, francs aren't important, I raised a loan of 300,000 kuna, just before the conversion I owed another 330,000 kuna, so after eight years of payment on a $300,000 loan I owe 330,000 kuna. And now I'm making a conversion, and my debt is down to £230,000, so the conversion has reduced, and right after the conversion, I'm paying off that loan with a new loan in kuna and I'm paying the bank of that £230,000 and I'm no longer in debt. I paid the bank $280,000 to the conversion, EUR 230,000 after the conversion, I paid the bank 510,000 kuna in total and thus paid off my 300,000 kuna loan after eight years. If I hadn't had the conversion by the day of the loan, I'd have paid $280,000 and I'd have owed another £330,000 because there was no conversion, so I'd have paid off the bank if I'd paid off the loan without conversion, a total of £610,000, so with a conversion of 510, with no conversion of 610,000 kuna. However, after the conversion, the bank owes me another 100.000 kuna, 20,000 kuna, and 90,000 kuna of overpaid annuities. And after this payment, where there's no conversion, the bank owed me an extra 210 thousand advances, and with that, they'd come at the end of the deal if the bank paid me back £210,000 on the basis of the judgment after the conversion, 610 I paid her minus 210 that she paid me back, that's $400,000. If I were right, and I have a right after conversion also to overpaid amounts, the bank would pay me 110,000 kuna, which means the 510 I gave minus 110 is equal to 400,000 kuna. So in case I have a conversion and no conversion, I have to pay the bank the same amount of money. If the courts in the Republic of Croatia spit on the EU court ruling C118/17 and said you have no right to cut the EU court, then I would pay the bank a total of 510,000 kuna. While in case I don't have a conversion and I get a conviction, I'd pay 400,000 kuna. So, you can see clearly it's not this mathematical calculation here on paper, but you can see on paper in the case of total repayment of the loan after conversion without judgment it's 510,000 kuna in the case of total payment without conversion it's 400,000 kuna and if the bank pays me back 100.000 kuna after conversion again I paid the bank 400,000 kuna in total. So the point is that I have to be compensated to the end, and that can only be if the bank returns me after the conversion of the amount overpaid. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-05-07-0.u181387	Thank you.
