ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-14-0.u186282	We are going to the point: - Annual report on the work of the Competition Protection Agency for 2018 The applicant is the Agency for the Protection of Competition based on Article. 34. The law on the protection of competition. We will conduct the debate on the basis of Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The 44th century is 6th century. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Economy and the Committee on Agriculture, the government delivered an opinion. Does the applicant want to give an additional explanation? Yeah. President-in-Office of the Council for the Protection of the Competition Mladen Cerovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-14-0.u186283	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected MPs and MPs. You are presented with a detailed and comprehensive report from the Competition Protection Agency for 2018. What is significant and which distinguishes this report from earlier reports is that it covers for the first time not only the Agency's work report on the part relating to the implementation of the Competition Protection Act, but also the implementation of the Law prohibiting unfair commercial practices in the food supply chain. This is the new jurisdiction of the Agency, which it has received through the adoption of the Law prohibiting unfair commercial practices in the food supply chain. The Law entered into force on 7 December 2017, but its full application began on 1 April 2018, so this report covered those eight or nine months. The submission of the Agency's annual report is not considered... its legal obligation but as an instrument for the widest public not only to be shown in a transparent manner by his work. This always causes the Agency's report quite read, this report contains other than statistics on the work of the Agency, the legal framework, so the Law on the Protection of Competition and the Law prohibiting unfair commercial practices in the food supply chain. A presentation of characteristic... paradigmtic objects, a description of the phase of procedures, and one and another regulation and a summary of sectoral research that is always media interesting. In 2018, the Agency carried out four such sectoral research and, of course, the report contains international activities of the Agency. I would just like to stress that in 2018 the agency won the competition for Twinning light project technical and professional assistance to the Montenegro Competition Protection Agency. The project was successfully completed this year. Here's what would be brief. I'll try to answer your questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-14-0.u186284	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. He's the first respected representative of Kirin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-14-0.u186285	Your Honor, Vice President, Your Honor. The Agency's work is related to the implementation of rules on the protection of competition and rules governing the prohibition of unfair commercial practices in the food supply chain. The Agency solved 648 cases in 2018. Whether the largest number of items were related to unfair commercial practice in food supply because there are manipulations of the simplest, easiest, pesticide concentration, then composition, biological and chemical correctness of food. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-14-0.u186286	The reply of the President-in-Office of the Competition Protection Council.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-14-0.u186287	Therefore, as far as 82 cases are concerned, they were from the area relating to the Law on the Prohibition of Unfair Commercial Practices. However, I have to correct you agency not to deal with it written in the report inside we have just answered that because it is a question one of the parliamentary representatives had asked earlier, not regarding the quality of food and food health care, it is the task of some other inspection, but it is, of course, related to this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-14-0.u186288	The next replica is the esteemed representative of the Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-14-0.u186289	Thank you, Vice President. My question also concerns the procedures for determining the meaning of exploiting the negotiating force and imposing unfair trade practices in the supply chain means fruit and vegetables. I want to know how many procedures are initiated, what you do with these large chains of buyers not actually paying small producers, it happens in the Neretva Valley with Mandarins, but it happens I am convinced in other parts of Croatia. I think the agency should work here a lot more and more actively because, according to my information I have, a lot of goods hasn't been paid at all. Please respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-14-0.u186290	The answer of the Honorable President of the Council of Cerovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-14-0.u186291	Thank you. So, the agency does this because in 2019, 32 administrative proceedings against, therefore, traders, buyers and buyers were initiated in 2019. Of course, the procedures are time-consuming, we said that the full application of the law began only in 4 months 2018, 6 decisions were made, total, the total amount of penalties was around 3,200,000 kuna. As for non-payments, so we have to get, we have to get some sign that the goods are not paid, we have to have, we're going to check it out and we're going to look for invoices, of course, and that's it. We had, the agency representatives also had a meeting with the Neretva youth if I'm not mistaken, they were down on the spot, they brought us their problems and I think that's where you can do what you can do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-14-0.u186292	Thank you very much. Does the committee reporter want to take the floor? No, I don't. I will open the debate then and the first one will speak on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, the Honorable Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-14-0.u186293	Thank you very much. Mr Cerovac, the Agency for Competition in the Republic of Croatia is an important institution that should care about equality, fairness, especially in this market, when we see in this market where foreign trade chains sell products that affect domestic production and, of course, the issue of quality. Whether you're going to transfer to inspection or you're going to be bound by a competent inspection is now a matter of system that obviously doesn't work and whatever foreign mechanics basically, foreign producers i.e. foreign trade chains under this non-synergy or let's say not to coordinate essentially destroy domestic producers which are, of course, failing. We have the results that every year in the Republic of Croatia more and more we have imports of food products, that came from EUR 3 billion. Rapidan is the growth of imports of food products until domestic production essentially reduces the consumption of our people on this unfair commercial practice cannot remain. This is where questions are asked from, if we have meaning what products we introduce, whether products we even have, imports of paška cheese that has neither seen Pag nor paved sheep, perhaps only if the ship has passed by, which is produced in other countries, we have a number of similar reasons for copying domestic products that destroy domestic producers. And that's why I think the agency should work much more together with the inspection if the inspection is responsible for food law, I think that we are on the common market and that if we are members of the EU, if it is equal, equal, and in particular if we call on the market and we have to be all the same, I think that the trade chains are breaking, the sides are breaking all these rules and that those harmful food, food that is waste, food that is to burn, I'm going to tell you a few examples. One example is obviously cheaper to forward it to Croatia on the market than to burn it. They're much cheaper than, like, 10, 10, 10, 10 years ago, 15 years ago when trade chains appeared, people were buying a New Zealand lamb that was frozen for 10 kuna pounds. So the frozen New Zealand lamb paid off to be translated with these tankers, how they were transported and sold for 10 kuna. I highly suspect that someone was checking the correctness of that lamb frozen, whether it was fed by a seed that was treated with glyphosate, whether it was GMOs in the body laboratories, whether it was that and that's what people were buying. And of course, raising lamb in the area and dealing with cattle is not worth our cattleman below EUR 100 because that's just the way the market is. So how much such food was imported that was uncontrollable and that destroyed domestic producers has been destroyed. And today we don't have any more, very little we have in the area where I come from there are these lambs, goats, sheep getting smaller and smaller. We're importing harmful food that's been uncontrollably controlled by New Zealand ships, and that's been sold in trade chains. And after a few months, people in a difficult financial situation are retired, and these are much more cost-effective to them to buy that frozen lamb than domestic products. And these are problems that are not being controlled on our market. They sell us here in trade chains there, which their countries produce chocolate 10 categories under the same, expensive, same envelope. They're selling the same envelope to us. We are not equal in the EU. I think the agency that the competition must be much louder and clearer. You are also authorized by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and mainly by the founders of the Croatian Parliament. I think you should be literally the same body and associates in preventing the problem of these unfair commercial practices that arises in the Republic of Croatia. And all bodies should first and foremost protect the health of our people and what they pay for it is quality for the price of what they give and protect our domestic producers. You state here in 2018 all the measures you've taken, all the applications, you state numerically, but from experience I'm telling you that today when I'm here, I'm going to give you an example of pork. Croatia introduces the most pork currently of a billion kunas of pork at this time from all directions, we call on the indigenous Dalmatian prosciutto, the Vrhorska, the držorska, but there are no domestic pigs, we import the meaning of pork that is definitely fed and is known by 100% soy juice that is treated, with very dangerous Monsant products from their meanings the brand of Monsant glyphosate. That's why I gave the law on the ban on glyphosate, that's what Austria has already done in the EU, that's what Monsanto means, the largest producers of GMOs, I also gave the law on the ban on GMOs of imports, transport, sales, planting in the area of the Republic of Croatia. Unfortunately, this parliament has not accepted it but I have again referred it to the procedure except for medical purposes, if that part cannot be known. But who's controlling it, who's watching it? You'll say inspection is required to check, but you're one body too, so you're an extra body if you don't do anything. I think about what, here's who's going to tell me why it's being imported, here's what you're going to come into a pig's neck trade chain 12 kunas. This cannot be tolerated by the domestic producer, this cannot be submitted by the domestic producer. What's that with? Is that fed, is that hormones, is that, is that no one controls it, is I repeat it with soy shotgun again with a soybean that is treated with glyphosate very dangerous to the health of this herbicide. Is that being treated? We don't know, we can assume, but all the information says it's very little controlled. Now we're coming up with another thing. We have an inspection, we have a medical check on this meat check, but no one's controlling it. And today we have, for example, I'd like to have the stables of pigs in my Dalmatia or at least to import from Slavonia, not to import, but to import from Slavonia pigs from these parts, so they produce prosciuttos, no, not to fill the coolers from the Netherlands, the direction of Hungary, Serbia, who knows where it all comes from, where everything doesn't come from. In fact, we are with our irresponsible, irresponsibility of institutions responsible for this, attaching responsibility to AZTN inspection, you transfer to it, no one has any responsibility, and basically what we have destroyed domestic production, empty Slavonia, empty Dalmatian Zagora, without cattle, means all of Lika. We have health, increased health problems for our citizens because the uncontrollable food sold on our market through trading chains that are also not only doing so, but if the trading chain of example of Germany, Austria from the EU is irrelevant, the owner of our wife is underpaid, so on the market they are not the same they are paid 2-3,000 kuna, and they are paid EUR 1,500, and the same chain, we are the same EU allegedly, even the EU chairman, I see that every day the prime minister boasts. So we're losing all kinds of questions, one thing we're good for laying out that harmful food without any control. And it affects the number I've listed affects people's health condition, we have an increased number of tumors, we have increased, food affects that. And we're suffocating our domestic manufacturer. Baba's selling onion on the market on the side or somewhere where she's not supposed to, jail time, her homework. So this is an example from the legislation and from the AZTN and the inspection of all the competent authorities that we are unrelated. Are we all taking responsibility, there's no clear responsibility, who, what, when, where, except for a small man, a small producer. We would rather promote our small producers on the market, if we had port producers in Sinj and Cetina region, if we had pig producers in Slavonia, if, irrelevantly, we had to promote and help in all markets be assured how local self-government, government, competent ministries to promote them in essence, what do we do? We are essentially these people, those low prices of bad products, foreign products that have no additional value as far as the Republic of Croatia is concerned that we as a tourist country that boasts, not boasts, but by increasing tourists, we do not have any additional value because food products are mainly imported. Tomatoes, I'm told, in our Adriatic when it's season, there's no home-made dowry, there's got to be a reason. Is the legislation bad, is the law on trade practice that we asked for to be passed as a club, he gave bad, he gave inapplicable, do we not have enough human resources you and inspections, is there a problem there? So there's a problem? So that's the problem we're trying to look at, the census I said from the human resources at your inspection agency. What's the problem? Is the results catastrophic, don't be angry that I'm telling you something in the sense that I'm insulting you, demeaning you, but the fact that domestic production has failed in unfair commercial practice because of non-control and foreign import practices. through our lobbys within Croatia, foreign products are placed on our market in the tourist season, I repeat. I live in the hinterland of Split, in the Cetin region, we have a Sinjsko polje which is unsettled people are not worth planting pomiras, tomatoes, and Italians go into tones and tones, hundreds of thousands of tons and that's sold in our restaurants. Romania's lamb, and our hills, our stables empty, we have two-thirds of Croatia empty because of the incoherence that the Competition Agency is transferring responsibility to inspections, do I see that you wrote here that it's a semi-circuit inspection. So can you connect? Well, Croatia is the same country, so I have to defend myself in the EU to my producers and not just that. Now that we've done that, now the foreigners can buy agricultural land. I don't know how long it's been with the moratorium, this year at 7 months, seven years of moratorium is running out, and now other foreigners are going to buy us agricultural land and produce that organic food, 700,000 hectares we have unprocessed ecologically preserved agricultural land in the weeds. It's potential, so ecologically preserved, not treated with a cidocor, not a roundup, not even a gliphosate, we have that. We in the negotiations have agreed that as of this year, foreigners can buy agricultural land, I have also given the amendment here that because of these problems we have in key food, agricultural production where our farmer is crushed by trade chains to ban the sale of land to foreign legal and physical persons. Because if we are equal in the EU and we are not, it is visible to imports and what we import from food products and what is sold to us on drawers of food chains. If Hungary has banned the sale of Croatian citizens from buying in Hungary agricultural land to our legal and physical persons, I do not see why we have sold the state-owned country to agriculture, if the EU is equal, if we are equal, if we are as powerful as Andrej Plenkovic's prime minister speaks and presides the EU, therefore we have not protected your results, domestic producers, protect the import lobbys and foreign trade chains at the expense of Croatian citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-14-0.u186294	Thank you. The next club of representatives is the HDZ on behalf of which the respected representative, Zarko Tušek, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-14-0.u186295	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Here are a few words in front of the HDZ Club on a very complex and complex matter that can be discussed politically in one way or another, but whose understanding requires a slightly higher level of legal, economic competence and generally comparative analysis by doing other such and similar agencies in the EU and the world in general. Introductoryly, the Agency's work must be assessed in front of the HDZ Club, which is the opinion of the board and the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia absolutely positive from the up-to-dateness of the action, from adopted expert opinions, from sectoral research, from multilateral activities of the agency in a very complex market, 46 markets covering, 250,000 entities in this package are the constant growth of resolved cases, from the implementation of the European Competition Protection Directive ECN+, which introduces a newspaper in general... of competition and I would say the Agency's power to perform on that site, from the fact that the Agency has been a partner to the DORH and the Government of the Republic of Croatia in a major dispute before the International Court of Justice in Washington on the basis of the lawsuit of the Dutch owners of the City Ex Group against the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the context of Croatia in the context of their dispute with the Croatian Post and bankruptcy and bankruptcy in which City Ex Group. So there are a number of serious positions where the Agency's work must be assessed positive... is obviously all in the context of a very small budget that the agency has certain sub-opacitations in the number of people, professional quality people who are impossible to find on the market and for whom it is necessary to invest exceptional energy to be determined by lawyers, economists, IT forensics and people who are necessary to regulate such a type of competition and promote the culture of competition as a fundamental culture of the liberal economy and a fair and competitive economy. There are some topics that are particularly being passed through the debate in public space, of course through the report on the work of the agency itself. The first topic of how big the problem of the cartel is and how much it damages our competition, first of all we need to explain to ourselves what the cartels mean, means we're talking about a deal of competition on the market to keep the price running, so that others are excluded from the economic and economic match. First of all, the agency has done a serious screening of the relationship between traders and people from other activities operating on, on, on the market, our domicile market and provided a series of guidelines that suggest that at this point relatively well this economic game is being followed. But what's important to say is it's very difficult to prove the cartel today on the market and it is necessary to understand both the businessmen and employers who are being grouped today, who are rounding to reduce their cost of production, to reduce the price of their logistics and to be generally competitive on the market. Similarly, it happens in production groups, similar things happen in trade groups, and it is simply an inevitable trend today in the global economy. On the context of respecting the law on unfair commercial practice that we have in force 2 thousand, 2 years, I apologize, we have here more than 200 administrative procedures that the Agency is carrying out, what we do not see in this report, and what is clear from the Agency's work in 2019. We also have 5 serious administrative criminal measures with, in terms of the implementation of this law of 350 to more than one million kunas in certain situations with certain trade chains, so that there is also a step forward, only here in the context of the implementation of this law should indeed be highlighted, the colleague Bulj has spoken of something, but generally which the jurisdiction of the agency, how complementaryly it cooperates with other state institutions in the context of imports of food products into the Republic of Croatia, quality, non-quality, which is the one in the jurisdiction of the State Inspectorate, which is in the management of the Ministry, and which is generally the Agency itself. A topic that is also very important in public space, which is in fact whether the Law on unfair commercial practices is a satisfactory solution to imposing a dominant position in the negotiating relations between suppliers and traders, monitoring at this time is carried out by the Ministry of Implementation of this law, which in the third quarter of this year prepares and amends and complements and aligns with the European Directive ECN+, but we must conclude, financial discipline is higher, payment is at an envious level so that in this sense I think we have a positive step forward. What was also being pushed was the issue of domestic import-related producers and dumping prices of foreign producers in terms of imports of these products into the market, the business market of the Republic of Croatia, I also think it is important to stress that the issue of competitiveness cannot be resolved by any law and that the question of competitiveness is something that is addressed to the overall economic policy of each country, at all sectoral levels, at legislative level, at the level of subsidies, at the level of incentives, at the level of serious tax policy, at the level of smart and quality use of EU structural funds, so that it is not only in the Republic of Croatia the problem of prices in certain sectors, above all, of the dairy sector, but the problem of price and the challenges of being competitive, the other EU members have the problem and the problem is extremely complex, but I say it is not only solved through supervision and through the agency itself, but in general, in the Government of the Republic, i.e. the resorient institutions and the ministry as a whole. What has also been pushed through is the implementation of the Law on unfair trade practices in the context of the inclusion of certain products and positions in the trade chains, in the context of the restriction of certain producers to take place in trade chains, it should be said that the work of the agency is very clear, that the law is very clear, that unless it is respected that each producer is i.e. The trader is currently subject to sanctions. However, it should also be said that there are limits that in the business arrangements between manufacturers and traders there is an opportunity to define positions in trade chains by written means and by contract if the manufacturer considers that it is an opportunised producer, if it considers it to be an opportunised trader with which he deals with the situation, but it must not be allowed to exclude anyone from performing its production on a segment of the commercial market in our country. We have before us amendments and legislation, complemented by the law on unfair commercial practices, I think they go into the third quarter of this year, that we will also bring the directives in line with ECN+ directives. What is also important to say is that it is necessary both through the agency and through the comprehensive work of all of us who are actors in this process, public and political space, to promote a culture of competition, to do everything to ensure that competition is truly transparent, so that everyone has fair and competitive opportunities in this same process and space, but that we must be aware that the key problems that I have several times articulated, which my colleague Bulj before me and who will likely articulate and other colleagues in today's individual or debates in front of the club, must be addressed by common economic policies and overall strategies and policies, and that the agency is nevertheless in this regard limited dimensions, limited domains and limited capacity. In any case, here again, as an independent body appointed by HS with 5 members of the agency who cannot be members of political parties and who are not political persons in, in, in our public space, I show respect for, at their work, a positive assessment of this 2018 report. Perhaps another interesting thing, that the disputes that are being held in the Republic of Croatia in the context of protecting the competition against European analyses are the shortest, lasts about 200, 200 days on average, which, if excepted, if the EU is the exception which has now come out of the EU on the highest scale, is precisely these procedures on administrative courts in the Republic of Croatia, which may suggest some good trend and in the functioning of the Croatian judiciary as a whole. So, so much for me in this part in front of the club, I tried to be summary, the agency doesn't have a big income, about 13.4 million kuna, 50 million people, and it needs to be really realistic what can be done in these circumstances and what's done is certainly one serious step from year to year. Well, congratulations on your work and every good one. Cheers.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-14-0.u186296	Thank you very much. I can see that my colleague Bulj raised his hand, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-14-0.u186297	Thank you very much. Here I would like to request a 10-minute recess on behalf of the MOST Club on behalf of this important Competition Agency for consultations, as simply as a parliamentary representative, as a club we must warn of the neladosity of institutions in the Republic of Croatia and the transfer of responsibility mainly as regards food products, agricultural products, because it is simply destroyed because of non-bindingness, nerada and negligence, and this result is visible today. We are today importing 3 billion euros in food products and that is on the rise, we import pork, we all import what we can produce in the Republic of Croatia and we are a tourist country. We today have on the shelves food of questionable quality that no one controls because it is being transferred to inspection and to AZTN. We in Croatia consume this food, we have an increased disease. Domestic production has been destroyed. We're not protecting our domestic producer and farmer today. Here is when the tourist season we do not have Croatian products, domestic products, and indigenous products rather than GMO products who know how they were done and what they were treated with and with which herbicides, no one controls it and these are cheap products that via pests within our ministries and institutions are allowed to destroy domestic young producers and this is the result. We don't need that expertise and competence of our parliamentary representatives to see that there are no more sheep, lambs in my Dalmatian Zagora, to import from Romania, to import from other parts. We don't protect a domestic producer. Not just about food and telecommunications. The biggest gains are to our customers by teleopers in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-14-0.u186298	Thank you very much. Of course I'll approve the break. I'll see you at 10 and 17. [[It's 10:00 P.M.]] [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 10:18 A.M.]] Dear colleagues and colleagues, the break is up and will now speak on behalf of the Living Wall Club and let's change Croatia's respected representative Ivan Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-14-0.u186300	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the topic is very important, I am sorry that today, as usual, there are not enough parliamentary representatives, the issue of competition everywhere is extremely important in each system. It's one of the issues of fundamental freedoms when it comes to economics, it's primary. Therefore, it is democracy and freedom if it is about the economy that every entrepreneur has access to the competition, to realize its entrepreneurial ideas, whether it is in Croatia, it is not. Our competition is dangerously disrupted, we have so-called. In my opinion, and other economists and experts, one phenomenon that is very bad, about crowny capitalism. What's a crowny capitalism? It is the worst link between entrepreneurs and politicians, we can call them political entrepreneurs, that they are state, privileged, party entrepreneurs and they are a terrible violation of every economy and so on in Croatia. I will briefly just mention two segments where this competition is being disrupted, these are in trade and above all in trade chains and banking. How's the store? You see, according to the Law in general on competition, foreign trade chains have come to Croatia. They took the field, now what in the second half? They're breaking that competition, according to whom, according to small and medium suppliers. How? It's hard to get on their shelves. If someone comes to their policy, then they have to participate in marketing campaigns, print it prices down, many have failed and failed. So is that the market? It's not the market. We have a law on unfair commercial practice, but we see it being poorly implemented, it's being broken, and that's the problem, suppliers don't complain most often, why, they're afraid, they'll lose their jobs anyway and access to the shelves they have. What's important here to emphasize? You see, in the trade sector, Croatian small merchants have been destroyed long ago. We've got domestic sales chains and we've got foreign trade chains. But what I repeat already today will be repeated by respected citizens, we from the party Change Croatia will fight hard against it. No foreign trade chain has paid a single kuna in the state budget for the last 10 years on profit tax. So I'm asking you, is that normal? And you know why they didn't pay? Because over the past 10 years, everyone's shown lost, I'm talking about food chains. They've shown the loss. Imagine, they've been doing business with loss for 10 years, and they still exist and operate on the Croatian market. So it's seen from the plane that this thing is wrong, that there's something sick, and we'll handle it with your support, get into that segment, everyone has to pay if they're working and they're doing huge traffic, only one of the current largest trade chains, there's traffic over 4 billion kunas a year. During that time, domestic sales chains, small merchants, they all paid and paid taxes on profits. So, where's the market? There's no market here. What is this Competition Protection Agency doing? What does the IRS do first? Now these are the real questions that this government and this government are not answering, we're going to open, not only open, but solve. Now let's go to the banking sector. You see, for the past 15 years, from '99, 2000 to today, there have been 20 years of systematic destruction of small banks in Croatia, you see, small banks in Croatia. So the Dubrovnik Bank, Osijek City Bank, Cibale Banka Vinkovci, County Banka, Jadranska Banka, were local, regional banks important for the development of the region due to agriculture, entrepreneurship, etc. The CNB's concept at the time was like this, and it was actually mean to destroy that very bank. They said, media transmitted it, Croatia is a small country, you know, too many of us have banks because, after Croatia's independence, it had about 60 banks. Today, there are 20 banks in Croatia. These banks are literally destroyed, why? On the grounds that their claims are incurable. And please look, this is worth one book to explain and describe how, for example, the City Bank of Osijek and the Cibale Bank, that both banks were literally shot during their stay in bankruptcy, so while they were, all of their claims that the CNB then declared to be non-refundable, and the two banks charged all the claims. You understand? All their savings were paid, and even their shareholders paid off after all, and you see, the then bankruptcy manager of the City Bank filed a criminal complaint against the then governor of Shkreb. What happened? Eat the donkey wolf. So, the fact that these two banks, they could count these other banks, prove that they had billable claims and that they weren't billable. And if they could basically exist, do business, it's an accusation of the CNB's leadership at the time. But obviously it was also a political goal spent by the CNB, which was the year of '99, 2000, then the Croatian banks were sold to foreigners, and then it was practically the case, so to speak, privatisation of Croatian banking. What do we have today? What do we have today? There is no market in Croatian banking today. The 5 largest banks control 81% of the assets of the banking system in Croatia, 5 banks. The Italian-Austrian banks today control 75% of Croatian banking. We need to talk about the political economy of banking in Croatia. That's not what anyone talked about in the assembly until a few of us came along, opened those topics. And for us in the party to change Croatia, we are not interested in HDZ, these SDPs, we are interested in solving the problem of the banks that occupied us. Croatia occupied with financial capital, and I personally never distinguished the occupation of tanks from the occupation of capital. It's a tough word, but the best way you can see it is through the Franak case, through the factoring of companies that were washing and lurking without cover, by raising fees and commissions where banks last year took 4 billion 800 million kunas. At every step they create blocked, completed, poor people who move out, so we do, they create a burned country. And they promote their competition, destroy our exporters and run their own credit policy. Someone might say, Lovrinovic, what you're saying, you look like a Croatian nationalist, economic, economicist, you can call me that, so in economic terms, because I defend the interests of this country, this economy and in the name of the party, we'll change Croatia because we can't fight anymore people like this, there's no market here, there's feudal capitalism and there's this other crowny, and, and let me finally just two more thoughts say, one more. A combination of politics and entrepreneurship most dangerous for the market in Croatia, for democracy, for everyone. There's this crowny capitalism and a segment I'd call a general economy. My deep respect for all the participants of the war, the generals, the colonels, the soldiers they had, they're heroes for me, we owe them all for freedom, but there's one number of such people who've connected to politics and are breaking the competition. Of course, there are no words about them, all who operate according to the law and how they should have full support, but we must prevent that sick connection between individuals and the state because they destroy and prevent those good real entrepreneurs from having their place. Imagine one information company working on Krk, large oil tanks, and Đuro Đaković fails. I could name a few examples here, etc., probably someone with this interest. We're here to open up questions, not just open up to fight this if we want to. Just grumbling, sitting at home at the table, and the respected citizens in particular speaking to you who are sitting at home during the election, that's how you double vote for those who are destroying us. Should I ask you to go to the next election? I don't need it, and I won't. Remember your children if you want to send them abroad, just sit down. We have to rise because this simply, not only doesn't make sense, this destroys us and the Croatian economy, the competition market does not have any perspective in this way, it will experience its complete breakdown, if we don't get rid of these, these phenomena of parasites and dangerous ones that are disrupting the market. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-14-0.u186301	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is the SDP on behalf of which the respected representative Sasa Djujic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-14-0.u186302	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, so before I talk about this topic at all, once again, I want to say that we are already in 2020, today we are discussing the 2018 report, let's say yesterday we discussed the HRT reports from 2016 to 2018, last week we discussed some reports in the judiciary. Some reports have not come to the debate in this high house at all that there has been no signatures of the opposition's representatives, and we believe that it is one practice that is not good and that is introduced in this assembly session, and we want to keep warning that for the next few months that we are working to at least try to discuss some reports when they are current, and not when more about them is immaterial. And now to get back essentially on the subject, the SDP Club will support this report we don't have this regarding the very report of some objections. These are now statistical indicators. As regards the Competition Protection Agency itself, it should therefore be borne in mind that the Agency is working within its legal capacity. Therefore, she is aware of certain problems, but the agency can do what it can under the laws that exist and essentially restrict the functioning of the agency itself. So we now have almost 2 years in force of the law on unfair commercial practice and now after 2 years, we can, in fact, look at the effects of this law and see how, what's good, what's not good. Here, we also welcome what is in the conclusion, the very conclusion of this report, which is that the biggest problem is essentially cartels, so we can say so, and the agency is, therefore, this measure that the law makes possible. The witness of the penitent, let's say, did not bear fruit because normally no one will answer and come and say, "Look, I'm working unfairly, but only when someone gets caught, and it's hard to actually catch someone and prove that part." Although again, if we are looking at this European practice, therefore 90% of all cartel breaking cases is precisely on the basis of some entrepreneurs who, who have discovered, let's say, but in fact this measure does not show any effect and in this direction we are also in favour of amending the law and extending the Agency's powers. The same thing is with these controls in essence that according to the existing regulatory agency if it goes into some kind of control or control, it should be all announced under existing laws, and then entrepreneurs can prepare themselves for the arrival of the agency. So we also welcome the agency's proposals alone to extend power in this regard to allow the agency to be unannounced control or unannounced surveillance, which we think would lead to better results. If we look at this newspaper in the control of the quality of goods in trade and that part essentially when we look at trade chains that have been punished as a rule, it turns out that they have been punished so far because of some petty technical failures, or from the very lack of understanding of their obligations, which we think is some minor problem in the law itself, and a much bigger problem is what my colleagues before me have been saying. So, I worked alone in a small company that worked in production and we were recalibrated in 2016, in 2017, I was the head of production in a small company and we were recalibrated from a single retail chain in a way that when we wanted to place our goods there we had to pay the price of entering the shelf, we had to sign right away that we would take 100% back all the goods, so we had to sign that ticket, even though we were a small company operating in the Primorje-Gorski County area by contract we were asked to fill the shelves of all the trade chains and where we didn't have logistics. So our actions were conditioned, not only unilaterally when the retail chain determines that you have to go with a particular product to action, you have to agree to that price and it is one practice that destroyed small producers of small companies that have no logistics support with it can't follow it. And I'm talking about a situation from 15 years ago, and then it was these beginnings, and then they're students who worked so-called "Students." The shelf loaders. Why was that necessary then? Because let's just say that when we gave the first batch of goods after about 30 days, our return was almost 100%, and then we went to see what it was about and when we went around certain trade chains, we realized that our goods were being delivered in our offices and didn't come to the shelf at all, and then you're actually forced to take those students who would charge it to even come to the shelf to sell. So the traders acted in a way, I have a 100% return contract, as it was about goods with a limited duration of 45 days or 45 days, because it was about nutrition, so they didn't care. They knew they had a 100% return and that all the risks on the small producer and many small companies, the OPGs, had failed because of it. And now, according to the new legal provisions, it's forbidden, but unfortunately it's still in the bang and there's an agency that can control as much as it can. That is why we too advocate to extend the Agency's powers because these are things when a small company wants to place its goods at all, then it will not rebel against it because it will be isolated so it will not work and thus endangers the business of many small companies that have been in Croatia for the past 20 years and failed. The second thing, it is good that the new legal changes introduce the obligation of the trade chains to specify both payment and delivery and distribution deadlines and all that and these payment deadlines are a big problem where one additional control should be made again because this is not the result of the failure of those small ones who cannot support that part. We have a situation in history right around here so I can now say Agrokor who for years built Ivica Todorovic his empire on the fact that he didn't pay his bills in time and small companies that delivered practically 100% of their production to Agrokor and they weren't paid within those 60 days or 30 how it was once they couldn't support it and then failed, and eventually Agrokor took over and put it into office. It was one practice that led to major disturbances on the Croatian market. Most of the time, these are all some of the problems that you are aware of at the agency because they are being read out of the conclusion of your report and we welcome them and we will give you full support in the effort to solve these problems. We also believe that given the financial situation of the Republic of Croatia, which is often known by the Minister of Finance, this Government has come to praise that the time has come to increase the Agency's budget, which you are warning you that you have a small budget and that you have expanded and staffed yourself and to strengthen the workforce so that you could work and we feel that the situation that happened two months ago did not have a full composition of the Council in 2018, it is not your fault that those two months when you did not have three members appointed to the mandate, you were unable to work because, in accordance with the law, you could not make any legal decisions that were not good practice and that there should be a warning for those who are making those decisions to avoid and not to repeat them, because then, in this period of unemployment or inability of the Agency, there is a variety of abuses and there may be a lot of things that should happen in the future. And as for these other things and statistics, I am now not going to enter the number of solved items launched. So once again, the agency's taste in accordance with its legal capabilities is doing the best it can and we are in favour of amending the law and extending the Agency's powers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-14-0.u186303	Thank you very much. The next club of representatives is that of the CNS on behalf of which the respected representative, Stjepan Curaj, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-14-0.u186304	Thank you. Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. As a rule, we learned the most at two moments during our history on the work of the Competition Protection Agency or AZTN the first one that I remember very well was in 2012 when the first such decision was made on the ban on the market, in fact competition with regard to cartels in the area of the city of Osijek and bakers' associations that joined together and controlled the price of bread. So, as a rule, the cartel when more and more entrepreneurs are disrupting the market and in fact disrupting those market laws of supply and demand competition, etc. The main prerequisite of this is oligopol, we have several oligopols on our market today, and this is the danger of creating such a single cartel and market control over the price and product itself. And the other part that we... as a matter of fact, it has become quite important when entering the EU and in pre-accession negotiations where direct state intervention in terms of state-owned enterprises that received labour subsidies has actually been in breach of competition provisions since then. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] This was what was the biggest problem is that we had there the farthest of course of shipbuilding, but also of a number of other companies that were in majority or total state-owned that had received these subsidies and actually textile industries etc., there were various industries that actually had nothing to do under the state cap because they were a clean market function. And that was the most challenging period when we had to go somewhere and something that would be said to cut and make what can be done, and what can't work without such state subsidies, unfortunately, shut down because they didn't manage and they don't manage the market. I think that one of the few state examples of current state-owned companies that only work on Borovo d.d.'s market activity is that, therefore, the shoe factory that absolutely should and is operating on the market, has no vital, essential state function and has not yet, let's say, privatised is there no point in us getting out of some plan-making economy, out of some communism or socialism, getting into some competition that has brought us, whether we want to admit it or not, better standard, better living conditions, which I think we can all agree, there's nothing the state can do in shoe production, it's clear to all. Here we have here a report that is correct, I would only have a few more things of the report itself before I could warn myself of some things, so we had one interruption from 15 November to 25 January, so 2 months, no, they were conditions, they weren't fulfilled for work, which doesn't mean that professional services couldn't have prepared all these materials, so I accept it, and it goes to the soul and government and parliaments that name members, but, so the assembly appointed them on January 25th, and we know why it came to this and various changes as regards most of them in the assembly, elections, etc. And it's another one of those things that paralysed this country and led to instability, but I say again on the other hand, it's said that in 2018, an additional 8 workers were employed, so the total ended with 52 workers, started with 44, and I believe that all the materials could have been prepared and done all the research, made all the decisions that would then only be made on the council, so it's not so much, so much justification. As a rule they say in the field of assessment, the concentration of entrepreneurs is allowed, 29 applications were received, 18 cases solved, now in which way, and we only have in 2018 in one case accepted taking commitments to eliminate negative effects as regards, establishing prohibited agreements between entrepreneurs, therefore a kind of cartel, only it, probably one horizontal at, at a lower level. So, I think we've cultured a lot, we've gone a long way as far as market behaviour is concerned, but what I've mentioned several potentials is still standing, especially those oligopoly when we talk about market telecommunications, we know how much service provider we need to be extremely careful about, or by the agency, in which way prices are formed, how, as they're being monitored, whether they're in competition and whether there are no agreements, given that we have two large practical providers or third in the entire market of the Republic, so one classical oligopol. Fuel prices are now after being released and classically formed we still have some discrepancy and it should also continue to monitor that the same fuel prices are not everywhere, and they do vary in small ones, but this market is working for now, but I am just stating that as certain potentials and perhaps one of the most obvious examples, they certainly know this especially before 20 years ago. and all those who studied were copying prices where it was well agreed on, and certainly formed the cartels defined in the area where you had at your age, it was known that everywhere the price of copying 25 limes, 50 was once 20 years ago, and 10 years ago, so on and so on, now more or less it settled on that barely viable market value, and there is also perhaps the most visible illustration of what the agency should be doing, in which way we protect the competition when we said bread price, price, here is a banal like copying, but when you have thousands and thousands of sides per year unfortunately being copied, again not to get into the story of why copyright is being violated, etc., it is now another pair of gloves, then it is not small amounts and it is working on the damage of citizens, some earning extra profit if it comes to non-market competition competitions. And what is ultimately the most important is actually this Law on unfair commercial practice, there are really different examples of mandatory joint marketing activities fellow Djujic has mentioned policy prices, so product payment, which is all in some way legitimate but how much the order on the shelf costs. Also mandatory mandated discounts that then occur go through these marketing activities where suppliers are asked to advertise during that period of 3 and 56 months. certain extra discounts to be on when you see those ads for some activities, believe me, that's not what traders do, they condition their suppliers to lower prices and so participate in marketing activities together. So, it remains a subject that needs to be properly checked, I'm not saying it's all illegal, but it's certainly just an unfavourable commercial practice, and the name doesn't say it's quite illegal, because it's legal, but in terms of rude violation of the law, but in terms of those accusations, surely we should, when we've already had that law in the last two years, here's a third, to run it. Otherwise, the HNS Club will, of course, accept this report and we think that we have achieved a high degree of protection of the competition, that we have succeeded in making that transition and that it is certainly necessary to keep an eye on and of course educate the citizens, but above all to keep no more arrangements under the table, association, form of any cartels or joint agreements, whatever they call it, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-14-0.u186305	Thank you very much. The following is the Club of Representatives of that HSU, SNAGA, Independent Representatives and New Politics, on behalf of which will be spoken by the respected representative Tomislav Žagar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-14-0.u186306	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Presidents of the Council, Mr Cerovac, colleagues and colleagues. So, in a brief discussion, first of all, I want to say that our club will support this report. We believe that he is in the extent that the legal framework gives the Agency is complete and like any report so far, and he is not only related to this agency and other market-regulated agencies, he warns that public expectations are much greater and even we are represented here, much greater than the agency's own authority and there is often a lack of understanding that all agencies should do because expectations are greater than what the legal authority itself is. So, the first law was passed back in 19995, there were some changes, in 2003 we have a new law and in 2010, the last law, as far as I know and which is now in force and is related to the work of the Competition Protection Agency. A few key things, the Republic of Croatia is a small market in world frameworks and precisely because or precisely because this agency is important is that it is a small paradox, in small markets it is actually possible to disrupt the competition easier to achieve than it is in large markets. The report itself mentions that the Agency is working with the European Commission and with all the positive rules within the EU to protect competition and some competences even the European Commission transfers to the national agency i.e. The Agency for the Protection of Competitions which they then perform but the Republic of Croatia in these frameworks as a small market should certainly develop this agency because any disturbance in such a small market, here in terms of market concentration, can cause significant effects. Someone here mentioned the Agrokor case earlier, I'm not sure how much this case is related to this agency, but we can see how many disturbances and concentrations of a business subject can cause. What's most important, it seems most important to me to point out and what's the point of the agency's work, and then and what's going through this report, that's two things, that's primarily the protection of citizens, that they have for an adequate price, an affordable and quality service, and another thing that's even more important, and that's the development of the economy. What I do in the report, in all the reports and so on, in this report is my general remark, which bothers me, Your Honor, President-in-Office, I know this is difficult, but perhaps in such a report you should really assess the impact on the economy, on GDP growth, have such measures as you are taking. Despite the fact that some of the decisions that you are here, and it is good that you have cited them in concrete cases, despite the fact that at the top, let's say, at the High Administrative Court, they have been confirmed, and the Constitutional Court has later annulled that decision, however, that as far as it can be seen in this case, there are significant amounts that you have determined as punishment, the Constitutional Court has annulled it, but nevertheless, I think that your role is significant and that it may need to be supported by some kind of assessment of how much it affects the economy because all of these phenomena that you prevent from establishing the forbidden agreements, so on. The creation of a cartel that is hard to determine, which you are, by the institute of the deceased, God, an apology, a penitent, I hope, that, in a legal sense, it is not one who is then such a case that it is not really legal, figuratively deceased, is it, a penitent, to be free of guilt if it points to such cases. These are then, of course, abuses of the ruling position and, of course, the concentration of entrepreneurs that are allowed to do so because we see, according to the report, that in certain areas of activity and concentration is increasing from year to year. Let's just take, the assessment is to say or to ask a question like this, let me ask a layman's question, how much in Croatia do we actually have a teleoper? How many influential teleopers are there? We can say that there are more of them, but I think in my opinion that two of them are important, two of them are key. And that they're running the story. So that's why I'm not saying that they're in conflict and with positive legislation, but it's certainly a fact that burdens such a small market, and that's why it's your job, so let's also at times commend people who come to Parliament, your job is extremely demanding, with a small number of people doing this job, and that's why it's good to say that these are the kind of assessments because the general mood of the public is that we have too many agencies in the Republic and that most of them are unnecessary. I deeply believe that this agency is not unnecessary and that it should be provided with even more resources and more personnel to do its job. And in the end, as regards the law on unfair commercial practice, you, for the first time, started to act on it, you cited all the restrictions that rule here, in fact in finding a violation of that law, and above all, it's still a high level of fear if we can express ourselves, the fear of those who report it because they are again dependent on trade chains in which to place their products, you started to self-initiately investigate such cases of contract control, you came to some knowledge, you saw where the problems are, we hope that in the future there will be more and at the end of the removal of such unfair commercial practices because, in my opinion, this applies most to the standard of citizens. So this part of your job applies most directly to the standard of citizens. If we look also at the data of the FINA structure of blocked citizens, and there they give us some indicative information about what is actually being done in the Republic of Croatia as a problem. So, in the end, I'd just like to mention one more case that you'd be dealing with like this, let me say if there's a chance, and let you say your opinion about it. When we talk about horizontal mergers, it's certainly illegal, cartels but we have specific cases, you've listed the case of security companies. According to DZS data, the lowest paid jobs in the Republic of Croatia are among the lowest paid jobs in these companies. And now a question arises from one aspect of why competition is, of course, not allowed to define a minimum price, but when we look at the bribery of these people, the fact is logically imposed, so we should define the minimum price that a person should protect some object in which he also exhibits his life and that it is in accordance with some minimum standards. It's not a question of you, in terms of what you can decide about it, but it's a question for all of us. How do we reconcile these two opposing goals? On the one hand, we have a goal of protecting competition and on the other hand we have underpaid people who, apart from the minimum labour price defined by the law... We have no other mechanisms where someone can do something for a minimum price and simply cannot guarantee that this job will then be well done or that man will be put into danger. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's not the only case, there's a conflict between the Chamber of Commerce or the Chamber of Commerce, same with market principles, and I've been talking about it, so I've been a little bit attacked, I'm brainy enough to say it precisely, but it's pretty clear if someone who has, who's an authorised engineer, if they're designing something, take it to design a bridge, so there's probably some minimum price for which he'll do it in quality, anything else if we leave it to the market, can happen later on, that the lives of citizens and then other things. Finally, let me conclude, we will support this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-14-0.u186307	Thank you. Something fellow Djujic raised his hand, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-14-0.u186308	Yes, thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, I am asking for a break of 10 minutes to consult on this issue once again because we feel that there is a need to expand the debate on this subject, so it is not just the Agency's responsibility, but we have a situation that affects cartels and this problem, and it is in the jurisdiction of the State Inspectorate and in essence the politicisation of the State Inspectorate, we think that it has led to problems not being solved here and we want to consult again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-14-0.u186309	Of course I'm gonna give you a break, but I'm gonna ask that we don't spread the debate into other things after all, rather than stay on this wheel. He's still a colleague, Curray. He's got his hand up.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-14-0.u186310	Thank you, dear Vice President. I also ask you to take a break on behalf of the HNS club to consult on these allegations by Mr. Djujic so that we can sit down in peace and talk about all this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-14-0.u186311	Absolutely, sit down and talk to me for 11 and 10 minutes. [[It's 11:00 P.M.]] [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING IN 11.10 HOURS]] Here's a esteemed colleague and colleague of mine, and now we're going to continue with an individual debate and this first one has come to Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-14-0.u186313	Here, we're talking about the agency, about the report we have in front of us, on behalf of the club, and I said basically some sort of attitude, i.e. what I have to say as an agent and what I feel in everyday communication, and in life what we see is that the market is saturated, i.e. that the market is full of these injustices, that the agency as an agency has given it enough, that there are not enough people it's now a question that you'd trangle about as a man from the agency who's leading this to say whether there's a lack of people, that there's no communication with inspections. I can only say a few examples, I was talking about food products i.e. about domestic production where it is in an unfavourable position on others, on trade chains, a colleague of Grumoja should talk about whether they are being paid, whether our suppliers are i.e. People who deal with production, do trade chains meet their obligations to them. However, we have other problems. We have an example of teleoperate in the Republic of Croatia where they are created a monopoly and where certain laws of teleoperators in the Republic of Croatia are not respected are so much the market for their behaviour both in space and in, mainly in the setting of base stations where citizens' rights are violated, they are allowed to place antenna pillars or roofs, on the roofs of the base station wherever they want. I have an example in my Sinj where inspections at the State Inspectorate don't answer questions. You're saying the State Inspectorate has a food problem with this, but we also have a huge problem with telecommunications markets. We've taken over, HT took over and from the post office Evo TV, so there's now one little bit started to be a monopoly, monopolism doesn't bring anything good. And when we talk about base stations, We must then say about teleopers if we are equal in the EU, on the market and if teleopers have to behave everywhere in the EU in Croatia, they do not behave as in other EU countries. That's where our policy suits, our legislation pleases teleopers, so for example, I've been asking a question, we have in Sinj Bakery, that's what I was talking about, the former bakery industrial zone, we have a chimney that was used for industry i.e. For the bakery there are base stations in the city center. Before he was the largest bell tower of the miracle Lady of Sinj, the largest building in Sinj, and now he is the largest base station i.e. These columns are used both against the GUP and against the GUP of the city of Sinj. I, too, ask Inspectorate Andrija Mikulić if the town of Sinja, GUP city of Sinja, is respected, and he answers that the Ministry of Health has said that radiation is in the allowed gauges. I ask him about respecting the GUP of the city of Sinj, where there are limits to being a base station in that area, he responds to the second and so on. It refers to a regulation that no longer applies to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. So there's this advantage to teleopers, there's conjecture to the powers and there's still an industrial zone there, but there's no problem, no matter what the school is, but it's opened there as part of these powerful people who come to the Ministry of Finance and they've opened a lipo and a bookie. I'm saying this, maybe it's a little weird to you why I'm talking about this, but I'm talking about why our inspections don't do their jobs, tops give answers, top meaning Andrija Mikulić who has nothing to do with the question being asked no matter what the city council is opposed to, but it costs the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Citizens of the Republic of Croatia within the EU cost 42% of their teleoperate benefits. And of course we have a monopoly after the privatisation of telecommunications, we have a monopoly of foreign means Deutsche Telekom doing whatever she wants in our area, in the area of the Republic of Croatia. I would once again say here are the key things, so food i.e. Food products. When we look at the results in the Republic of Croatia, which is with domestic production that it's destroyed, it means that something in Denmark stinks, something stinks here. So not something, but it's realistic how we see now that these solutions of functioning as agencies, how inspection, everyone in the protection of the market, is on the burden of all domestic producers. Foreign trade chains do not behave in their countries or at the quality of the product, or at the salaries of our employees. The cashier, they're not acting like they're in their own countries. Their products that are questionable qualities are placed on our market. That's why it's impossible, I'm going to once again set that pig's neck is 12 kuna, which is imported from who knows where, from the direction of Hungary, the Netherlands and of course that our pigdogs have the largest increase in imports. Which food is and as it is fed no one controls whether it was inside, whether it was fed again I repeat myself with the food that was treated and grown on the surfaces of di is glyphosate used. So the harmful herbicide that Austria has already banned and of course we have an increase and health rate, an increase in our population's disease, because that food is not controlled, the only thing that's the same package. We have a problem, what I mentioned today is Dalmatian prosciutto, brazen, top-notch, which, Dalmatian prosciutto, but we don't have a pig. Why? Because we didn't allow our people to be on the market. our farmers and producers survive if imports of harmful and cheap food from, uncontrollable GMOs, I am that and the law banning GMOs, even the counties opposed everything, and for transport, and for trade, but you did not support, and for production. We have to look exclusively at and protect our seeds, our products, our people and base our production on a agricultural tree if we have 700,000 acres at this moment of unprocessed land, and we are a tourist country, a clean ecological agricultural land preserved under the weeds, then I see something wrong. And our people don't get paid in the season of the biggest tourist season, I always say that, you can't find a home product on shelves importing everything and everything, Chinese, these and those scissors, who knows what's going on in the market. It's said of Borovo, I've got gouzers, I wear them often, I even come to them when it's a bad time, from Borov, I'm going to buy Borovo, it's not me at all, and we're talking about it. But the fact is that our market has everything and everything that is uncontrollable and monopoly takes over, mostly foreign trade chains and destroys our production, and that's a fact. This is not a question, which someone said to major professional analyses, but it is a fact, we have 2/3 of RH literally empty, we import lamb from Australia frozen il from New Zealand, or from Romania that's cheap on the market, we don't control their quality, we don't even control their age, they can simply pass the label, means we have huge problems, and these problems cause people from these areas to be able to deal with organic production, and we don't have the strength or courage of what the Austrian parliament river has no glyphosate, that herbicide in us won't be used. If we're taking meat, who's controlling, I'm interested, it's probably not your part, but it's connected on the market, who's controlling whether there's glyphosate in the pork we're importing? It's not clear to me that it can be so cheap and I don't understand why we don't create this foreign import scissors, waste, food, and I don't understand that our domestic products can't be competitors in the RH in the hinterland that are being produced, and on the coast they're being sold, so that system absolutely doesn't work. It's not just the Agency's problem, it's the problem of a cycle system that's unrelated. and import lobbies. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-14-0.u186314	We've got a few replicas. He's the first respected representative of Curray.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-14-0.u186315	I thank the Honorable Vice President, here is more for the sake of a little public interest I am actually interested in colleague Bulj talking about some things, even if he could agree, but of course they are not in the topic of today's debate, a little more freedom of interpretation of the topic of protection of competition, above all I would agree that you were going towards consumer protection rather than competition. But with you one thing that's been worrying me a lot lately is your statement that equality on the market is actually a burden for domestic producers. I can't agree with that, and we can't agree with that, because we don't have to favour any producer here, we have to work in the interest of citizens, favour the manufacturer means that you can speak in favor of Agrodor, in favour of large companies, domestics, regardless of what domestics we always have to, and that's why this is the protection of the competition, their main goal is to protect citizens, not companies. Thank you. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-14-0.u186316	The answer of the esteemed Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-14-0.u186317	I may have put it that way, I said inequality on the market, which is an inequality towards Croatian producers, domestic producers, maybe it was a lapsus, I can't check now, now I'm listening to audio recording because simple controls, inspections, the agency says that it, that the matter of inspection, the inspection will say that it's an agency thing, so the system is not bound, and of course the food that doesn't satisfy the quality that domestic producers have is simply being placed on our market uncontrollably, it's bad food, with all of these things being, in all of these that we have results loomingly. We have to offer new solutions, 2/3 of the RH is unprocessed, people are leaving, we're not protecting domestic producers, I repeat only because of the inequality on the market because obviously the system is not working, and that's different mechanics, import lobbys use in a way that has a huge profit on the damage Our citizens. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you, Lippa.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-14-0.u186318	The next replica of the esteemed representative of Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-14-0.u186319	Dear colleague Bulj, you're saying that perhaps your debate is strange, is not strange at all, from one aspect of which you are constantly talking she has very basics. In fact, if you look at the structure of the blocked citizens, the amount of citizens' debt to the telecommunication operators of the citizens over whom the mandate is carried out is 334.1 million kuna, it was, now I don't know how many at this point, a few months ago. And be careful, from the base of outstanding electricity and gas consumption obligations 97.7 million, so 3 times less, and municipal services 177,9 million or half, so in the Republic of Croatia we have a set of Internet, expensive telecommunications services, and who can be guilty of this rather than the absence of a market, the market would certainly bring down those prices. Why is the Internet so cheaper and ultimately telecommunications services in the EU? And that's what the data of the blocked citizens shows, and that's why your debate isn't weird.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-14-0.u186320	Dear Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-14-0.u186321	Col. Zhagar, a monopoly is a key problem by privatising telecommunications and taking over from Deutsche Telekom is absolutely a monopoly in the hands of political law teleoperators and legislation have abolished building permits to set up base stations while in all EU countries and even Serbia-Montenegro, which are not within the EU, need a building permit. They do what they want and therefore their biggest profit in the Republic of Croatia is in the area where Deutsche Telecom has its own companies, so 42% is the EU's profit, 20% on average the profit margin of teleoperators. This is what all our citizens pay for because their political elites favor them is what the Misetic Dynasty will say, what Merkel will say, what the Germans will say, and not our citizens are protected. So first of all, we need to stop the monopoly and political influence of these companies on decision-making, and to the harm of our citizens as you yourself have numbered. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-14-0.u186322	Thank you. Next because the replica of the esteemed Uncle's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-14-0.u186323	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Bulj, you have devoted most of your discussion to the base stations, there I can agree with you that a large number of citizens who live near them detest. However, in today’s digital society when what did not appear on social networks is literally unimaginable. What's the alternative? So those antennas, the base stations, the repeaters, the transmitters must be somewhere. Now whether or not to prescribe it, edit it, but literally life without a cell phone today is unimaginable. And the question is, what's the alternative? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-14-0.u186324	Dear Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-14-0.u186325	Question in place. Let the teleoperators in the Republic of Germany act like they own it, nothing else. Let them respect Croatian regulations, respect the spatial plans of the units of local self-government and act the same as in Germany, Austria and Sweden where they came from. And of course no one is... development, and if the mayor says in Brussels that theirs, that she doesn't want their citizens to be experimental rabbits. First of all, the health and safety of our citizens and, of course, the same conditions in Croatia as in other EU Member States for setting up base stations, and not where they come to mind, then we could, here I will ask you. What are the spatial plans for? Let's break them by law. Why? Let them set up wherever they want the base stations. Just to behave, the most important thing is that if we talk about competition, teleopers behave in the Republic of Croatia as in countries where they come from. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-14-0.u186326	Thank you. The next individual debate is the respected representative of Sasa Djujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-14-0.u186327	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. So I want to take advantage of this opportunity in an individual debate to warn of a problem or the appearance of cartels in Croatia. And when I talk about this cartel and it's one problem that goes to harm and citizens, but also Croatian societies, which is a cartel in construction. So, we have now come out of the recession of the last few years and the state has invested a lot, meaning that the ministries, which cities, municipalities, counties and other public institutions and have a lot of construction. And we have the whole appearance of competitions for some projects that construction companies only have one bidder with 30, 40% higher price than the one that is the starting price, unlike five, six years ago when there was not so much work in Croatia and when the starting price would often collapse by 30, 40% and the competition that appeared by three, four construction companies. Now we have a situation to report only one with a 30% higher price and that's something that costs taxpayers more money. And why do I think it's the cartel? Because it's exactly arranged, so if you take a certain line by city and project municipalities then one construction company comes to one project, one such project in another municipality appears another, and in a third, and there's basically no evidence of that, but we come to the conclusion that they agreed between themselves, I'm going to do this job, you're going to do that job. And then what happens? As a rule, then, if some public institutions or some city or municipalities do so, they usually shut down the financial structure through some or European funds or through the financing of ministries. And now that you get some funding for a project, let's say in the third, fourth month while you call the competition, the contest comes and if you don't spend the money you've been given in the current year, you're usually losing them. And then the cities, the municipalities, the institutions agree and at higher prices just to go and do it, but in practice we have 30% higher costs for some things than they're worth, I think if that's what you can say. And now it would be fair for the market to come forward, I think it appears five, six firms, and then try to correct the price. And like this, it opens up one suspicion about the cartel, but I have a feeling it's not dealing with enough of that problem, I don't know how much it's even within the jurisdiction of the agency itself, and how much space you have here for some sort of determination of things. I don't think anyone's dealing with this too much because it's some kind of public money again, so then everyone always goes, yeah, that's the budget there has money, so then we don't even complain. But ultimately, it costs our citizens a lot more, and how much could it actually be, or how many more projects could be closed down by that public money that, say, prices are correct and in those real gauges that they should be in. I've already talked about it in this High House, but I also want to say once again to draw attention to this problem and maybe try and deal with it. The other thing is colleagues were talking about teleoperators, I also can't take the impression, there's everything, there's a mix of competition and consumer protection that's not in your jurisdiction, but I think that the teleoperators in Croatia, although we're like on an open market, we have two or three, yet we open up a certain doubt after... years that there's still some sort of agreement between them about some things, which can still smell like a cartel when I have to say it like that, because if we look that there are environments in Croatia where there's no infrastructure for the fast internet, that we have places in the 21st century that if a man doesn't take TV over a teleoper can't have a normal internet because he doesn't have infrastructure just support that speed and then they don't get a service that they should pay, and there't be another teleperer's interested to get into that area and invest, and then he's pointing to some arrangements between them. The other thing is, prices are the same for all of them. The third problem most people ever have with any operator, I'm not going to talk about who my colleague Bulj before me is, this one or that one, they're all the same. So when you have a problem then you have a big problem and people are often nervous and you can't talk to them at all to solve your problem and then you go to another operator, then it's at the beginning okay, and then again and then the problem comes at some point, and basically what they're causing, they cause the anxiety of Croatian citizens who are struggling with some giants and can't end there. So, a banal example you have no problem with today's phone, internet or phone call there that operator center, you'll make a deal, you'll sign it for two years without a problem, then you can phone and personal and not personal and all that ok, and if you want to break the contract then you'll get so complicated your life that it can't be over the phone all of a sudden, it can't be your ID card, you have to go to the center, then you go to a center that's maybe 50 km away from your place because you don't live, we're not all that urban, then while you're waiting for order, then you come in, so it's not our jurisdiction. Mostly you make contracts easily, and the end of the contract takes nerves, time and money. And there are those in a certain privileged position over the users, and that basically allows them all because I don't think we have an open competition in that area that should be because if we had it then they would be competing with their service, quality and access to the citizens, which is what the market is for and then there would be no problems. And these all the phenomena that we have in society essentially suggest that they have a certain advantageous position, have an agreement between themselves and there is a smaller problem for me of this base station and that part of it, rather than that of their market behaviour where ultimately the end-user suffers damage. And we need to talk about this and we need to warn and see how to try these things to correct or raise awareness of the minimum. And I think that just changing the law and extending your agency's powers could, say, make certain steps in that area. That's it, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-14-0.u186328	Thank you. We have a replica of the respected representative of the Tušek.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-14-0.u186329	Dear fellow Djujic, you have opened an interesting topic, I will refer to this first part of your debate currently on the state of supply and demand in the construction market, especially in the context of a major congestion of works in the public sector, the smart use of European funds, a lot of projects going around Croatia. And the fact is that the market is booming with projects, and that the operation on the other hand simply doesn't have enough. So there it is, I think there's a key problem. Now there were 7 hungry years, now 7 good years are obvious for construction operations in Croatia, but it could hardly be called a cartel. The cartel would mean that they agree on how to have a monopoly on the market, but here a monopoly on the market. Here is a simple fact such that there is not enough building operations that, which at the moment, projects that could be implemented that could be operationally implemented and therefore definitely have a certain agreement, but agreements dictate the market rather than cartel association. Just like you said. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-14-0.u186330	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative, Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-14-0.u186331	I wasn't saying this shit to my colleague, I was saying this from some experience and some knowledge that I have. So I have contact with a particular resort myself, so here is your minister of the sea, and my fellow citizen often says that Croatia is experiencing a renaissance of the Croatian coast. So now take the numerous ports and puppies that are built from Dubrovnik to Umag, they are built very much, then look at which contractors are working there and how they are deployed, how whoever is the project and the price of those initial ones at which the price is later agreed and it is not the fault of the government or the ministry or the state or those who implement these projects. It's just one situation where you're in, okay, but I think it's because if, I have a construction firm and you have a construction firm and now we're agreed, I'm gonna take this, you come in there, we're not going to go in each other, and we're not going to answer both of you on the same project, so whoever gets first is going to work second. But we made a nice deal and we agreed that everyone would go 30% higher than the original one then it was a cartel for me. Oh, okay, okay, that's what's going on.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-14-0.u186332	Thank you. The next individual debate is Irena Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic's respected representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-14-0.u186333	Thank you very much, Vice President. I wasn't here when the honorary representative of the agency spoke because I was at a joint session of the two committees, and if I had been here about 2.5 hours ago, then I'd have asked some questions while you were on the stand, and since I didn't, I'm going to use that time now. So, regarding your report you have in 2018 688 items that the agency has solved from the field of competition and unfair commercial practices and you say that by 6.7% is the growth of solved cases compared to 2017. But I would now ask for an answer in your final address, which in your opinion is the reason that there are no more resolved cases, so why is 6.7% increase, not even more in itself, in terms of segments of competition and unfair commercial practices rather than in general. Because I'm thinking there are obviously some obstacles to why this percentage isn't even higher, so please answer that question. The second thing I am interested in is, therefore, an additional clarification on the 7th of 12th of 2017, we all know well that the Law on the ban on unfair commercial practices in the food supply chain in which the Agency participated along with other actors, and I am now interested in what you can say now after 3rd year, so with this time-out from 2017 to today, where you see a space for improving this law because I am sure there is space. I believe that you can see that there are certain areas for improvement because it's 3. It's an ideal, ideal period to actually detect all the rooms for finishing some law. Thirdly, I wanted to ask, so I believe that we have both in this high home and in general a special obligation towards small and medium-sized producers on the Croatian market, whenever small and medium-sized farmers are concerned and, of course, so on. The triangle of food, water and energy is extremely important for our country, and in this sense I am interested in whether you see any asymmetry or imbalances to say on, in Croatian, to these small and medium-sized producers, and I think of small and medium-sized farmers, I see some areas where it can be improved, I also see certain imbalances in the negotiating power of these small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, so to say, or the producer between the retail chains on the one hand and them as small and medium-sized producers, or farmers on the other hand, so I think that we have a special obligation, therefore in maintaining that balance, in maintaining an even position, I am aware that this is very, very difficult and we are all aware, but we need to pursue as much equality on the market, and especially in this sector. The fourth thing I wanted to ask is about sanctioning negative phenomena and activities in the Croatian market, which is directly in your jurisdiction, so we all know that sanctioning must be valid, but as it is said in the People's Dictionary, it must also be a message, a message to all those who plan to do it unfairly, that it will not be possible, and motivation to all those who plan to do it fairly, that is precisely the meaning of these sanctions prescribed by law, is not the meaning of sanctioning, it is the sense of prevention, but the purpose is to send a motivational message, so to those who want to do it honestly, and to those who do not want to send a message that they will not be allowed to do so. So it's not good to get the impression that breaking the law is something that's acceptable, in that sense your role is significant. Every agency is more or less a market regulator like your agency, of course none of us are for hyper regulation that would choke, but we're not even for surface access and I'm not saying that at the expense of this agency right now, I'm talking about all agencies as market regulators. And finally another question, so I'm aware that when procedures are being conducted under the General Administrative Procedure Act, that this requires certain times and when these administrative procedures are being initiated, when, therefore, it's a serious suspicion of some kind of abuse, this, in terms of the Law on Non-compliance of Commercial Practices, my question is last, therefore, fifth, do we have room for improvement? Somehow I think there might be room for finishing and improving, and of course we all know how to find that room for improvement. I am asking you nicely if you will find a way to answer these questions for me to meet me and all the citizens who are interested in these questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-14-0.u186334	Thank you, the next individual debate was supposed to be a respected representative of Goran Maric, missing him, losing his right to speak, and the next one will be final on behalf of SDP's Club of Representatives, the word of Honored Representative Sasa Djujic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-14-0.u186335	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, so here's a little bit more at the end for the taste of everything, so this whole debate, we would like to draw attention once again to the fact that it is necessary to approach the existing law as soon as possible and to extend the powers, powers of this agency, so in this direction and another thing of this matter we appeal to the government to strengthen the financial budget of the Agency for work and that the HR team can or should legally create preconditions for the agency to solve all these problems that we have detected here today through this debate. Once again, the SDP advocates' club will support the agency's work report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-14-0.u186336	Next on behalf of the Living Wall's Club of Representatives and Change Croatia, it is finally necessary to speak to the respected representative Lovrinović, he is not, he is losing his right to speak, and then, finally, on behalf of the promoter, he will say something to the respected President of the Council for the Protection of the Competition Mladen Cerovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-14-0.u186337	I will try to answer briefly, I will start with this last question because you were at that previous part of the debate, so the growth of 6.7% does not depend on the agency in the end line, the agency has no inspection authority, the agency acts ex post, so when something happens and when it finds out in any way or the agency finds out often and from the media, we often find out this because entrepreneurs are willing to brag about what they should not brag about, later on, it is difficult to prove it, we see that courts, Croatian courts and the High Court of Justice and the Constitutional Court, even when the High Administrative Court confirms the decision of the Constitutional Court to bring it down, has raised a standard of evidence at the level that no one in Europe has, so according to this cartel. No cartel could be proven in the Republic of Croatia, the only way would be because we have an example. in one case which was brought down recently because where we have within one association they agreed not to raise the price of the service, so why don't you raise the price of the service, to prevent competitors from coming in, it's the same tool, right, you don't have to raise prices, but it's also one of the tools, if they raise it up for, just for the inflation rate, and they did, so that's what it was found to be. There's a record that runs a professional secretary within the chamber, an association in the chamber. The record's official. That's absolutely proof that they agreed on it, I think, because I don't know what else could be besides the official record running the professional secretary. It was torn down because the court said we didn't check to see if they got those records. So, especially when you write it in the verdict they'll, of course, tell everyone, so I didn't get the record to prove it to him. So it's one of the absurds, no. The band of orthodontists agreed on the price, fixed prices, we know that these are very expensive services, the chamber.../incomprehensible/... she generally did not have the authority to prescribe fixed prices, the dental chamber had, and orthodonalists did not, and dentists did not do it for them, they did it themselves, 3.5 years and prices stand on the web site of their orthodontic chamber, we find it, punish them, the court says no matter what they were founded, you can't punish someone who was founded because of education. For the first time, the agency sought and for the first time, submitted a request to the State's Attorney's office for an extraordinary review of the judicial decisions of power. The state's attorney's office has accepted it to the Supreme Court, and we've been waiting four years for what's going to happen. It's going to be forever. We already know that, no. To us it would be, whatever the court says to us, it would be an orientation. Mostly most cartels occur within chamber associations, they agree, that's what they can negotiate on their interests, but they can't negotiate prices or operating conditions, so it's against competition. The law on unfair trade practices in food supply chains is not 3 years, in 2017 it was 23 days, but it was 9 months. The law itself contains a provision saying that the Ministry of Agriculture, which is competent to monitor these two years, will then go to changes to the law. The law, these changes are being prepared. Of course, many shortcomings have been observed. We know ourselves when the law itself was passed that the agency in collaboration with the Ministry of Agriculture had to adopt guidelines in which it answered over 200 questions. So 200 things were not clear enough, they were now clarified and it's okay, the law is being applied but it indicates that now we know what needs to be changed, let's say. Imbalances of course as regards small and medium-sized people, they exist, as regards the negotiating power of theirbagen power, as the English say, have tried to get rid of the law on unfair commercial practices, I'm talking about agricultural producers, is this law. How much did that work out? Financial discipline has been largely established, so they say everyone is still paid within 30 days or 60 days for products that are not fresh with rare exceptions or, of course, if we are not paid, we do not know and we cannot find out, we do not have inspection powers. Especially those by which we would determine the safety of food, health and sanity, sanitary and reasons. Of course, if, I don't know how lawyers and economists could do it at all, it's within the jurisdiction of the inspectorate, the State Inspectorate and I don't know why Mr. Bulj refuses, transfers responsibility to us. They don't do it at all, they know it's their job, so they don't have it at all. We had a meeting, that's the same answer to one question, with the State Inspectorate, was present and the Minister of Agriculture in which we asked for one cooperation. On two occasions, the inspectorate met us because thanks to the Ministry of Administration it was not allowed for the agency to have the right to unannounced investigations as it has under the ban law, the Law on the Protection of Competition. So they said no. It's an administrative procedure you have to announce yourself. Of course when you announce yourself, then everything's fine, even better than usual, that's what it's about. The sanctioning you're basically saying that this should be not only individual but also general prevention so that they are, that punishments scare, that they show that the law must not be broken. The penalties are as they are, they are prescribed by law, and the procedure is also prescribed, so the criteria for the imposition of penalties and must be followed by the agency. In addition, we have to say that for 13 years, the agency has not had the power to impose fines, we have repeatedly asked for it, it remains the last agency in the area of this former state that has not had it. Everyone had that and they had less developed than us. For 13 years, no punishment has been imposed, in fact one was reportedly imposed, but they were pronounced by law enforcement courts, we don't have any feedback, we don't know who solved it. Mostly the penalties were not imposed, there were entrepreneurs of course knew nothing would happen to us, the law was worth breaking, the court, the misdemeanor courts mainly had a limit of up to 200,000 kuna I think they could impose penalties, no more than that, it's nothing special in large ones. Speeding up the process, of course there are penalties relatively high although I am not satisfied with them I must admit, I wish they were more. Acceleration, when you have such high sentences you must and give the parties great procedural rights and they use them. They divulge as much procedures as they can, so you have to maintain, these procedures are complex very, they are described in detail in this annual report. They have, for example, a concentration that can be by, by 200 procedural actions until you get there, and the concentrations are relatively simple compared to cartels and abuse of the ruling position. I hope that answers your questions, and I don't know if there's anything else to talk about. So I say about this clear division in the jurisdiction between the inspectorates, the State Inspectorate and the Agency there is no dispute. It's quite clear, I've never heard of the inspectorate refusing to do anything and saying it's done by the agency, it's quite clear to them. As far as food is concerned, if Mr. Bulj wants to arrange for someone to roast the lamb and come in organically to examine the quality of this product, we'll be happy to come. Uh, so we can't know, that's where lawyers and economists work, we don't have an expert on it, and we're not even in charge of it, that's what the inspectorate does especially with imports. As far as imports are concerned, Croatia has been negotiating for a long time, we have long negotiated and we have long negotiated, we have agreed well and agreed however we are not satisfied but someone needed especially those small and medium-sized farmers, they needed to know what was going to happen, they unprepared got into it. They thought they'd be selling out and no one would come here on this field and that's unfortunately so that no law can solve their competitiveness, what they're proposing, these associations producers, in Croatia there's only four of them, as far as I know, right. So it's a way to boost their competitiveness. In addition to these low prices of imported products, there is a question of the purchase power of the Croatian buyer, no, we would all buy expensive if we had money but we buy what is said, you go to war with what you have. And I think the fact that these teleopers, so base stations, are going to be even more, given this 5G network. In Europe, I'm not a telecommunications expert, but then I'm a power lawyer, let's just say I learned something about it. There was a debate that there were only 4 operators in America and Europe to make them around 150, 160, and that the whole European market should actually be treated as one, as one whole so that they could strengthen, be bigger and stronger because these investments are very expensive, infrastructure is looking for permanent changes, but the European Commission has said that it can't, that there's no way to do that, but let them build this coin investment, why everyone should have their own base station, why several of them don't invest in joint stations. Of course, it seems that you as operators did not sit well and that was no longer discussed later. Here I think that would be most of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-14-0.u186338	Thank you very much, for your presentation we have several replicas, the first respected representative of Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-14-0.u186339	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, I raised the line because I want to thank you, Mr. Cerovac, because you spoke very honestly, not only professionally from the agency, but I don't know you personally, but I'm pleasantly surprised by the honesty of the answer because these five specific questions I've asked, and all of them in your area have answered honestly, so not trying to say that we don't have any problem where we have him, which is not your jurisdiction, but the question of the amendments to the law, and so other than being systematically worked and what you have been systematically, involved in bureaucracy as we all once did, you have answered. I'd prefer it if you said we didn't have any of those problems but we should actually talk and say where there's room for improvement, that these improvements should then be done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-14-0.u186340	The answer of the esteemed president. ... The next replica of the esteemed representative of Shucker. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-14-0.u186341	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Cerovac, you've touched very important things for me in your final work. So when Croatia coordinated its legislation with the EU acquis in the EU accession process, there was the establishment of certain independent institutions in the Republic of Croatia, whether these are agencies, inspectorates, all with the aim of moving away from politics, their independence being rights. But what you said here about a pay phone, which is something that some of us have been repeating for years here in the assembly, these bodies have to cooperate with each other, and when a certain problem arises, a non-compliance with the law, and when one body asks for another intervention that is in its jurisdiction, then it has to be done spotlessly because if it is not done, then God and the adoption of laws and the establishment of agencies and in the final judiciary, if the processes will last for years not if it is white to solve something immediately, unfortunately everything will remain a dead letter on paper.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-14-0.u186342	The answer of the esteemed president.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-14-0.u186343	In short, the agency has excellent interagency cooperation with all regulators, so HANFA, HERA, HACOM, with everyone on the line. They're experts on their markets especially HACOM, for example, it's very,... Railways make it telecommunications because without their help, they actually have to explain to us how these markets work. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] With them, let's say, we all have great cooperation. With the State Inspectorate, we haven't had any problems so far, I say, that meeting was held, I don't know what the outcome of that meeting is. The State Inspectorate here I will tell you, he on two occasions jumped us as far as the ransom stations down in the Neretva Delta, it was said that no general conditions were highlighted in the rooms where he was being redeemed. Of course we don't even have a chance to go down there, come down in three days, almost, there's nothing, we asked the inspector who's out there on the ground to see if it's been reported and they did it, really, no problem at all. So there's this cooperation, we wanted to deepen it, I don't know what the State Inspector's attitude is, anyway, I think, when we do it. If we find that from another body is jurisdiction, we warn him of that.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-14-0.u186344	Thank you. The next replica, the esteemed representative of Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-14-0.u186345	Thank you very much. I'm just a telegrapher, I see you've replicated, saying you're acting the same way in the country where it comes from. In the Republic of Croatia, I repeat, HT has the highest profit, it is a member of the Deutsche Telekom group, 42% of the margin, and that means winning and while in the EU 20%, only in Croatia do not need a building permit for base stations and check Brussels, see others, Geneva and other cities, see and see if they are just introducing 5G without thinking about the first, means the health safety of their fellow citizens. I'm not in favour of stopping, I'm not, but stopping the development of technology but that teleopers behave in Croatia as in EU countries and don't need a building permit, do whatever they want, whatever they want, and that's why they have the highest profit. Why are we not equal to other EU members? That's what I'm asking you. Who does and why does he do it? [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-14-0.u186346	The President-in-Office's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-14-0.u186347	This question was never in the Agency's jurisdiction, was it? So, neither as far as telecommunications is concerned in this part, nor as to why we are not equal to other members of the Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-14-0.u186348	The next replica, the esteemed representative of Zhagar, but before I give him my word to welcome you to the student and student gallery XIII. High school from Zagreb. Here you go, Comrade Sagar. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-14-0.u186349	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Mr. Cerovac, by importing 5G's network, there will be even more base stations, but it will be according to their interpretations of less radiation, but it's not controversial, it's the key thing you said. Why don't they all use one base station, why does every operator have their own? Mrs. Borzan's Euro representative informed us that from next year all phones will have standardized chargers, one charger for all cell phones. It is a key improvement on the ecological side, and then on the financial side for the citizens. It would be the same with teleopers. But you know for yourself, you may not have said it, or you might have said it differently. They have great financial power, great influence. You mention four operators I think I have them, formally maybe four, that there are two, and this, of course, is not in anyone's interest because they are so powerful that they are not even in the interest of the European Commission to hold them back to me to put it that way.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-14-0.u186350	Thank you very much. I would like to conclude a debate on this point, and we will vote on it when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-14-0.u186351	Annual report on the work of the Competition Protection Agency for 2018 The report shall be submitted to the Competition Protection Agency. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: The Annual Report on the work of the Competition Protection Agency for 2018 is accepted, please vote. I find that most of the vote is 87 for and 1 abstentions and 8 against the conclusion proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
