ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u9682	Mrs Barbara Antolic Vupora will be the position of the SDP Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u9683	Respect to the chairman. Dear MPs and MPs, today I will talk about the lack of systematic and quality care for the most vulnerable groups of citizens, for most of all those older and powerless persons who are due to this Covid crisis are actually the most endangered and some say in this wave, the sixth wave of Covid actually the most needed aid of the state. The countries we've heard about are the best, that there's everything they need, but those who live with people we hear from them everything that says it's not like that. The transition to TVBT2 signal is under way and, of course, people are locked up in their homes and homes, protecting their health at the opportunity or difficulties to ensure that they see this window in the world a new, new device and the arrival of a master or friend who will enable them to do so. It can be made possible for them where it can be viewed, but today we have many areas in Croatia where it is not possible to track that same signal and it is also necessary to ensure it. So, Zadar County can't even follow the TV signal of the earth today, it's got to be paid satellite or some other channel to get to people, but we're talking about old and powerless, so those who are locked up in their homes, so we're giving them help that these people can track what's going on in the world or what's around them. The second thing that has been disabled today by many citizens with the most important things about health care is those who are not sick so far, and they want to buy a flu vaccine, they are not able to do that. So, the vaccine.../incomprehensible/... is not available on the free market, and we know how important it is to protect yourself with that same vaccine in order to better overcome with, overcome the virus if this infection occurs. We're talking about being a social state, but the social state seems to be going through the system on its own. You're on your own in homes for older and powerless governments that same policy. In homes for older and powerless we've heard they've been provided with enough means of protection, enough personnel, it's not like that again. So the means of protection are constantly coming in, but in symbolic quantities. It happens that homes also had to be organized with new departments where they were suspected or even infected by Covida-19 and, of course, they need to be provided with much, much larger, much larger means to protect.../incomprehensible/... employees and everyone around them, but also new jobs, new staff they have. We've heard they're at the Employment Service, and they're calling the government, but she can't hear. The government has a plan for itself, not enough to ensure that those who are unemployed or healthcare professionals at the Employment Service can get jobs in those same homes for older and powerless or in hospitals where they need them. How does this work, our country? Is it really the state we're hearing about from this pay phone from the ruling or is it just us in opposition that we have something to object to? People today who are very hard to live on who have to allocate new resources for the most basic are not satisfied with how we work. They're not happy with us either as an opposition, let alone those who manage this COVID crisis. I think it takes a lot more to do especially for the elderly and the powerless, especially in those three areas that I have now pointed out to make them live easier and better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u9684	Thank you, too. It is now up to Mrs. Sandra Bencic, who will speak the views of the Green-Left bloc's Club of Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u9760	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues today, I will talk about the proposal for Maric's tax reform as a model of disseminating the social state and even an idea of what a social state is. So, we do not need to repeat because we all know that we are in a serious health crisis but also in the economic crisis we saw indicators of GDP decline, we saw a projection for next year, and we also know that Croatia, not only Croatia, but also globally, is threatening this type of crisis to a longer-term recession. What was the lesson in the last global economic crisis? The lesson could be summed up like this, we were wrong we shouldn't have saved should encourage consumption. Here, former Minister Lalovac certainly knows that because he's actually running a cycle of exits from the last recession, allowing the lowest income classes to have slightly higher incomes. Why? Because if you want to run a cycle, especially in the context of the Croatian economy that depends heavily on internal consumption, you have to ensure the growth of those minimum salaries for the simple reason that the first 7 and even 8 decimals means 8 out of 10 or 80% if you want to receive salaries in the Republic of Croatia their entire salary goes to consumption. Those last two kids are saving, it's us here, they can save. In order to get this effect of pushing the economic cycle plus returning to the budget through VAT because spending is increasing plus eliminating the need for social benefits should work on a tax reform that is diametrically contrary to the one done by Mr Maric. Tax policy plays a key role in achieving the principle of the social state. So the idea of a social state is that those who have more pay more, those who have less pay less. That's the basis. What's Maric doing? In 2020, Minister Maric opted for tax reform which is de facto the introduction of a flat war, we have a de facto flat rate after this law is passed. Flat rate means that everyone, but in Croatia not all but 99.5% of employees will pay taxes at the same rate. Only 0.5% of what is about 6500 people in relation to you, so if we look at the number of legal persons employees will pay by, part of the salary at a higher rate than 30, all others, the worker who has a gross salary of 5,500 and here is Prime Minister Plenkovic, who has a gross salary of 33,000, 5,500, 33,000 salaries of tax at the same rate. I'm talking about gross amounts. Same foot. It's a flat war. 2020 when the countries of Central and Eastern Europe, which were the only ones with a flat rate, or a flat tax in their countries, such as Lithuania and Latvia, decided to abolish it and move on to a progressive system, and introduced as much as 3 feet. Why? Because they saw it was their flat war, what did he bring them? It has brought them a huge increase in inequality, which is why you have countless studies on the EU's website that have been the effects of the uranium hunt in these countries, tax uranium. Today, the prime minister said it was a tax discharge that should be seen on an individual level. So let's watch it on an individual level, let's go. So, that worker I mentioned with 5,500 gross wages, he's going to be paid 16 to 20 kuna. How much will the Prime Minister's salary increase be? About 1000 kunas minimum depending on who has been reported as a abstention, etc. Is that in line with the principle of the social state? Is that a fair tax system? Are you going to raise your hand to raise your salary by 1000 kuna, and that your secretary in the assembly as ours to increase her salary by some, here ours will increase from 5,5,000 kuna, VSS, to 5,050 kuna, madness? So, are we really going to vote that kind of tax reform here? Will we also vote that those who receive millions of kuna per year through capital revenue, pay only 10% of the tax rate, and those who work pay a minimum and first rate of 20%? So how is that normal? What kind of social state is this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u9761	Thank you. Finally, Mrs Dalia Oreshkovic will be the position of the IPE and Glass Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u9824	Honored Chairman, fellow MPs and MPs. A number of distortions have occurred in the way many state institutions and state bodies operate. Every problem has its place of origin, and in the Republic of Croatia it starts from non-compliance with the legal rules whether it is the provisions of the Constitution, the law or the measures to combat the spread of the corona infection, which is daily prescribed by the national headquarters. And if that's the problem we want to solve, we need to start solving it from the top, from the Constitution. In the last few weeks, we have witnessed the relationship between the presidents of the state and the Prime Ministers and the individual ministers who certainly do not contribute to the preservation of the stability of the constitutional order, nor to the regular and coordinated action of the state government. And the inappropriate rhetoric and dictionary that could be heard on both sides certainly did not contribute to the culture of public dialogue and to the preservation of citizens' trust in public authorities. A part of the problem certainly stems from the character of those we have chosen to act as the most public duties. Part of their animosity. But part of the problem certainly stems from insufficiently defined, underdeveloped provisions of the Constitution that speak about the powers of the President of the Republic and his relationship with the Government and the Prime Minister. A situation in which the president of the state publicly calls on the prime minister to call a meeting of the National Security Council on which the Prime Minister, regardless of the responsibility, says I will not, I find inappropriate, unacceptable and harmful to the constitutional order and rule of law. There have been many examples lately in which it seemed that from the execution, and even from the failure of certain constitutional obligations of one hill or another, there is a certain kind of dispute, and I believe that in this dispute the Croatian Parliament must take over the role of the arbiter. I advocate that the special law defines relations between the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister in accordance with those provisions of the Constitution in which they share certain powers. Therefore, the development of clear rules, obligations and responsibilities, and if necessary since there is no minimum of cooperation and agreement between them, could be regulated by law and by certain obligations and in the event of compliance with certain protocols. Rules binding officials and politicians must be clear so that citizens can check whether the government behaves as it is expected. The government must have clearly defined obligations and clearly prescribed restrictions, and political culture must be built in society where there is a clear public expectation and that officials must respect the prescribed rules. It is a legal minimum without which justice cannot be achieved. We cannot allow the authorities to behave the way citizens are allowed, which is to violate the regulations that apply to them. In the existing Constitution, in the part in which the relationship between the presidents of the state and the Government is defined, there are indeterminates, and precisely because of these indeterminateities, there is a situation where important political processes take place in a way where the public has neither the possibility nor the insight nor control whether their relationship is such that it is a guarantee of the protection of public interest or the private interests of either the president of the State or of the Prime Minister shall take place solely in accordance with their own wishes or the interests of the political party from which they come. Here are a few topics in which I believe that the Croatian Parliament should draw up specific rules. This is the development of the way in which the President of the State takes care of the regular and coordinated action and of the stability of the state authority within the meaning of Article 94(2). The Constitution. Then, a detailed discussion of the procedures for directing the work of the security services. Next, the government's obligation to hold a meeting and to consider certain issues and to regulate the process of co-creation of foreign policy and the way in which the President of the State or Prime Minister will represent and represent the Republic of Croatia in the European Council within the meaning of Article 144(5). The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Given the subject we discussed yesterday on this last issue today, I'm going to commit a little bit more. Therefore, the necessity of defining these issues stems from the fact that, on the basis of the already established European Council, the Republic of Croatia is always represented by the Prime Minister. But such a situation does not stem from constitutional provisions, but from the relationship between the two branches of the state government and the contradictory provisions of the Constitution itself. I therefore believe that this issue must be resolved by the Croatian Parliament. In doing so, the existing practice ignores the fact that the Prime Minister and the Government, in accordance with the Constitution, can only lead foreign policy in the frameworks that are subscribing with the President of the State. The Republic of Croatia does not have foreign policy, because it has never been created in the way the Constitution prescribes Thank you. [[Intruder Radin: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u9825	Thank you very much. Now we're going to have a little break by 13.50 because we need to clear the hall. Traditional epidemic break. It's 1:00 P.M. The club of representatives of Croatian sovereigns will be presented by Mr Marko Milanović litre.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u9857	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Last week, at a meeting of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic made a decree to increase the minimum wage by 187 kuna and 49 June gross and 150 kuna net compared to 2020, which would mean that he would legally impose that the minimum wage in 2021 would be 4.250 kuna gross and 3,400 kuna, respectively. Let me be perfectly clear at the very beginning. The average Croatian family cannot survive with the average Croatian salary, and I don't want to think how they live with the minimum. That amount is simply not enough for a normal and dignified life. The increase in income and quality of life of our fellow citizens is one of the main objectives of Croatian sovereigns in this term of parliament. But increasing the minimum wage by decree at the time of the global pandemic, the global economic crisis, the planned 8% GDP drop in the current year with more than 150 thousand unemployed and 250 thousand blocked citizens are being questioned by jobs in industries that should be helped by this provision. I must admit that this is one of the brave moves of the ruling that we can agree on in her intention. But in order for businesses to raise wages, there must be growth, and income and traffic for most of them are not growing but falling drastically. If you remember gentlemen ruling precisely why you shared the subsidies that were intended to... craftsmen, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs could pay their salaries to their workers, and now these decisions are additionally burdened with business that will eventually cost them exactly those whom they want to help, and these are workers. A healthy and more natural way of raising minimum wages is to regulate the market, to increase from healthy market competitiveness and growth in the economy and competitiveness in the labour market. Compensation measures such as the release of contributions to the payment of minimum salaries are for each commendation, but these compensatory measures will no longer be available since the beginning of 2021. We need the state to ensure normal business and legal frameworks for those who create, not to impose new obligations on those who barely survive like this. This and similar moves by rulings place an additional burden on traditional industries that are working intensively and which are already working with a loss or are on the verge of negative business. Because the share of labour costs in such industries is up to 80%. By legally imposing a minimum wage increase, we are jeopardizing the business of these industries and jeopardizing business security for those who are apparently supposed to help them. If we aim to increase the minimum wage, we need to think about increasing the untaxable amount of wages that are not below 4 000 kuna so that employers can find additional funds that could finance such decisions, because such legally imposed provisions do not ensure higher income for workers, and neither do employers' incomes. More likely to reduce non-taxable parts of workers not because employers do not want to pay higher wages to workers, but a large majority of them do not have room for it. Once again, I want to repeat that all of our top priorities must be to raise the minimum wage and quality of life in Croatia for our citizens. But we will not achieve this through the provisions imposed, but by creating a healthy business climate where the public sector does not suffer from co-operation with the state and state appliances, but rather sees it as an opportunity to improve its work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u9858	Thank you, too. It is now Mr Goran Ivanovic's turn to be the position of the HDZ Representatives' Club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u9920	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, distinguished parliamentary representatives and MPs. Here let me spend these five minutes on something that I think is worth a lot more than 5 minutes in HS, is essentially life in the east of Slavonia, especially in relation to the east of Croatia, especially when we are in these circumstances of the crown virus. KBC in Osijek began its work on November 1, 1874. and since then, with some minor upgrades today is essentially in a state where we need to know the fact that Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem is an area that has about 700,000 inhabitants. A new agreement to the Council for Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem included a project to build a new KBC in Osijek and the government approved the first 35 million kunas for the project documentation of the construction of the same KBC. The investment itself will be worth about 2 billion kuna. I believe that this is the life theme of people living in the east of Croatia, both primary and all other health care is the foundation of every society. In addition to KBC, something will be built which is equally crucial for the development of Slavonia, Baranja and Srijema, which is an upgrade and adaptation of the Osijek Airport which was put on the market sometime on April 31st 1980. I'd say that Osijek Airport should be what we're all talking about here, and that's development, we're a agricultural area, we know what Airport Kargo Transport means if we establish conditions and preconditions. The construction of Corridor Vc is currently under construction of a 23km section from Osijek to the White Manastir, leaving more shares from the White Manastir to the border with the Republic of Hungary and thus the Croatian part of the story of Corridor Vc, the Svilaj Bridge, would be built. The railway corridors that are the vessels of the housewives are also important, both in the direction of Vinkovac and in the direction of Virovitica, Zagreb. And what makes me as a man, as a representative here at HS rejoiced that this consensus of 5 mayors, Slavonian, Slavonian counties who have found priorities, who have found time to sit at the same table regardless of the politics and all that can possibly share them. It's important, it's our task to help our end, to help the people who sent us here to HS to make life at least for a moment better, to bring it to that level and the level that every responsible policy will say is real at that moment. What I think is very important, and here we are going to spend all afternoon and spend all day changing our budgets in these other changes in the 2020 budget. where agriculture, if you have followed well, even has an increase of these 200 million kunas, which is for our farmers, not only in Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem, but in general for the OPGs, farmers in the whole of Croatia very important. This is a clear sign that the government has a vision of how to help those who can return this aid through what is most important through healthy food, through the increase in the end and gross domestic product. And in the end, he would send an appeal to our leaders of local self-government especially here at my place in Slavonia and Baranja and Srijem not to forget cultural and artistic societies, not to forget singing groups, not to forget the Tamburian compositions that have no business. Corona has taken a great toll on these people who spend their whole lives pervading our national culture, our heritage by that we are what these people do. They're in difficult conditions today. There's practically no joy, there's not all those places where they could perform. Well, I appeal to the leaders of local self-government to help them. They're living people. They're living organisms. These are the people who guarantee that our tradition, heritage and culture will also be tomorrow what we have been proud of throughout history. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u9921	Thank you, too. It is now up to Daniel Spajic, who will present the position of the Association of Representatives of the Homeland Movement.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u9996	The Honorable Chairman, the esteemed colleagues and fellow MPs. Today, I would like to point out manipulations of the avoidance of the responsibility of Transport Minister Oleg Butkovic in the event of a problem that Croatian road transporters face for months. As I cited on Tuesday asking the parliamentary question, Minister Butkovic has been refusing to discuss with representatives of the Croatian Road Transport Organisation for 4 months, limiting the transport of carriers through border crossings with the Republic of Slovenia. I asked Minister Butkovic at the time why he did not want to receive representatives of the Association and talk to them about the problem that many carriers have thrown on their knees. Instead of facing his own responsibility, he called me and the Association for Telling Lies, stating that he had received representatives of the Association 10 days ago at a meeting to discuss the transport of freight vehicles in winter conditions and the work of the winter service. Therefore, the topic of the meeting was not in general a burning problem of crossing the border, so there is clear what Butkovic's response is just a simple attempt to manipulate with the aim of discrediting its critics. Now obviously something is happening around the border crossings to this latest minister's attempt to deceive the public and spread the untruth has responded both to the spot and to the named Croatian road transporter association. They said by answering my parliamentary question, Minister Butkovic questioned his own credibility because the direct question referred to in a clear context corresponds to the claim that he held a meeting, though on some completely different topics. I repeat the last meeting was held on 1 July 2020, so 4 months ago. During that period, ministers are.../incomprehensible/... association of written and oral requests. All of these requests were made by Minister Butkovic, the association did not show up until today, but he was ready to call for a meeting on another topic, the one on winter traffic conditions. The theme of borders is not even mentioned. They noted those who are better understood in this issue that, in further exposure, Minister Butkovic avoids concrete answers to a concrete question, trying to camuflate with facts he believes are sufficient proof of the ministry's support. So for the second time on the issue of cross-border freight traffic issues, we gave the transporters a refund, we freed them from CEMT payments, we helped them. It wants to create the impression that the carriers received everything they asked for and that the discrimination suffered by central Croatian carriers from Slavonia for 15 months is therefore a completely secondary problem. Why do they turn their backs on the landowners and residents who have suffered so much in the Homeland War? The same people who stayed in Croatia, built their companies, hired people, strengthened the Croatian economy. Why are these people being driven to ruin? The real truth is what this state is unsustainable and unacceptable. The summary of everything I'm talking about is next, Minister Butkovic has been avoiding talking for 4 months about limiting the traffic of Croatian carriers through border crossings with Slovenia. At the same time, however, the minister finds time to organise meetings on winter conditions on the roads and gives additional blow to carriers by allowing unfair competition to enter. On Tuesday, November 3rd, carriers found out that the proposal to amend the Transport Act on road transport was made public. The amendments intend to abolish the obligation of the licence for vehicles above 12 tonnes by carriers carrying out their transport for their own purposes. The explanation is that it created unexpected costs and business problems for entrepreneurs. In the second year of application of this legislative provision, has it been established that the misuse of transport has been reduced for its own use and that the system of public transport of cargo has been so improved that there is no need for legal regulations anymore. Let's be honest, it's a public secret that transport for its own needs by vehicles above 12 tons is being dragged into the market as a school example of unfair competition. Without any regulation and without any obligation imposed on licensed carriers carrying out public transport. And while we are talking about boundaries and problems that could be solved by the joint response of the Prime Minister and the Prime Minister rather than by creating a healthy entrepreneurial climate, one's private interests are more important. I therefore publicly appeal once again to Minister Butkovic to respond to the invitation of the Association of Croatian Road Transporters to a constructive conversation, to take concrete measures in negotiations with the Slovenian side and to give a clear answer to the following questions. For what reason could the transport of carriers from certain parts of Croatia, Dalmatia and the north be agreed within only 2 months while the rest of the carriers from central Croatia and Slavonia have been on the sidelines for 15 months? Which is why some other topics could be discussed 10 days ago, and this burning topic has not been discussed for 4 months. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u9997	Thank you, too. Thank you very much. 13 hours in a few seconds and we're going to apply for a position on behalf of a representative club, an independent representative. The first is the bridge to be represented by Mr Marin Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u10051	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Radin, Mr. Bukarica, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I want to talk to you today about the waste burner. I want to talk to you about some of the most fundamental human rights, the right to clean air, the right to a healthy life. We in Rijeka, the Primorje-Gorski County have extensive experience in shortening these rights as well as experience of everyday functioning in pollution and smell. Unfortunately, a lot of things smelled and smelled in our neighborhood. Sometimes Koksara in Bakre, so the refinery of Mlako, the Refinery of Kostrena, sometimes the windows of the river were not allowed to open because of the smell. Now they want us back in those times and Rijeka, even the Chabar as we hear turn into a waste burning centre in this part of Europe where the Italians are supposed to come to the heart of Gorski Kotar to burn their waste. It's not just the smell here. Such and similar industries lead to a drastic fall in real estate prices. Here's an example of Marcella where no one today wants to buy an apartment or a house for the smell of Marisca and poison coming from a local county waste management centre keeps people closed up all year long, and if someone does, then they get their stomachs up. On the other hand, the U.S. situation isn't great either. The tourism of Medulin and the health of people from Kastion are at risk. Imagine now all the people who bought apartments and houses in Sušačka Draga, Gornji and Donjo Vežica, Svilno, Krimei, Trsata, and besides their collapse the prices of real estate are at risk and their health. Parties who swear they want to be green parties, parties that allegedly deal with green policies, parties that say we need Green New Deal to do what they're doing? We're being pushed by missed waste management methods, so after Marisca, they're now trying to trick us into a waste burner. And that the genius of this idea would be more pronounced in the garbage burner would be built in Sušačka Draga in a boiler in a waterproof area, I will repeat in a boiler in a waterproof area, people of Gornja and Donja Vežice, Sušačka Draga, Sušak, Trsata, Bakra, Kostrena have the right to clean air, Rijeka has the right to clean water. Pushing today on the threshold of 21st year, the garbage burner is very irresponsible to nature and to people. One Danish leader of the social and ecologically-aware state is shutting down her burner. Denmark is as far ahead of us in technology as in corruption, whether we're going to go with vision and strategy forward or to go from state's most modern to forward and turn to circular waste management, which we're doing, some missed concepts that were being built but when, 30 years ago, 40 years ago. That's enough. We know how Mariscina ended. I've spoken here many times on the subject. For those not referred to in the problem, why not burner, not respecting the European directive, the hierarchy of waste management is ignored, quality composting should be built in Rijeka, recycling stimulated, no energy cost-effectiveness. The most important argument promoter of this burner is the exploitation of waste for energy production. That's where we get the absurd. If the same elements of waste were to recycle the energy they would save from extracting new raw materials from nature is greater than the energy we get from burning. This project has no financial viability, this is an expensive project, the estimated value is EUR 30 million for the amount of 30,000 tonnes of waste per year, and to build a biogas plant for which we stand, which would handle the same 30,000 biowaste annually would require EUR 2.5 million. Let's stop acting like drunk millionaires, be responsible for taxpayers' money. The burners are major contaminants. For the same amount of energy, the garbage burner will release 10 times more poisons and a health-destructive project compared to the coal thermal power plant. Very toxic gases of dioxins and furans are created, responsible authorities must behave responsibly And that's why we're gonna do everything we can to make sure the firehouse doesn't come to the river. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u10052	Thank you very much, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u10857	I welcome all MPs and MPs, good morning. Today: - Proposed amendments and additions to the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2020 and projections for 2021 and 2022, together with the proposal for amendments and addition of the State budget for 2020 and projection for 2021 and 2022, the proposals for amending and supplementing the financial plans of extra budget users for 2020 and the projection of plans for 2021 and 2022 with an explanation for: - Croatian waters, - Croatian roads, - Centre for restructuring and sales, - Environmental Protection and Energy Efficiency, - State Agency for the establishment of savings roles and recovery of banks, - HZZO, - Croatian highways, - Autoroads Rijeka-Zagreb, - HZHZ Travel Transport, - HZ Infrastructure. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Budget law and Art. 211. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. In the case of the adoption of the State budget, the provisions of Article 2 shall apply. 211 and 212. The Rules of Procedure of the HS, amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with Article 1(2). 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure, the Committee on Health and Social Policy, the Committee on Defence, the Committee on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government, the Committee on Environment and Nature, the Committee on Agriculture. I remind you that. 38. The budget law according to which any amendments and additions adopted by the Parliament through amendments to the proposed state budget and projections shall not exceed the amount of the permitted lack of state budget and projections. During the debate on the State Budget Proposal and projections, amendments proposed to increase budgetary expenditure and expenditure above the amounts set out in the proposal for a state budget and projection may be adopted provided that other expenditures and expenditures are reduced simultaneously in a specific part of the budget. The amendments referred to above shall not be on the burden of the budgetary stock or on the burden of additional borrowing. With this in mind, I warn that only those amendments submitted and drawn up under the Budget Law will be sent to the parliamentary procedure. Art. 212. The Rules of Procedure set out that amendments and the budget tabled cannot be voted upon before three days of the day of the debate, so here I immediately announce that Tuesday we will discuss the amendments, and Wednesday we will vote on budget rebalancing. I would now ask the Prime Minister, Andrej Plenkovic, to further explain the proposal to amend and supplement the state budget. But before that, a colleague named Peja Grbin appeared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u10858	Thank you, Mr. President of the SS. In accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the HS on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDP, I request a 10-minute recess so that the club of representatives can be further prepared for the current debate, and in light of the decisions of today's meeting of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, but also recommendations of the Commission for Fiscal Policy. In fact, we will now discuss the rebalancing of the 2020 budget, which is closely related to the changes that the government has announced today, but also to the budget for the next 2021. However, the Commission for Fiscal Policy has questioned the sustainability of the announced tax reform. Since this tax reform is the basis for both the budget and budget rebalancing, we at the SDP Representatives' Club are asking whether the government even knows what it is doing? On the one hand, the announced tax reform will lead to a sharp growth of inequality in Croatian society because it will give the largest asset to the richest in our society. 20, 30 thousand with top salaries will achieve the biggest benefit of tax reform, and most citizens and citizens of this country will get nothing. However, as the Commission for Fiscal Policy suggests, such tax reform will lead to a serious problem of non-functioning, both state and local self-government units. Such tax reform also calls into question the sustainability of the 2020 budget rebalancing, which we will now discuss, but also the 2021 budget. That is why we need to consult further, but we are also calling on the government to reconsider what it has said today so that Croatia does not put itself in a worse position than what it is in today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u10859	The apartment will be approved, of course. Is anyone else picking up? Comrade Bačić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u10860	Thank you, Mr. President. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, I am also looking for a break in order to point out once again that this budget rebalancing enables us to fight effectively on the one hand the Aaron of the Virus, and on the other hand full support for Croatian business owners to preserve jobs, to maintain the liquidity of Croatian entrepreneurs and on the third hand to continue their business activities. It is clear from the budget rebalance that at the beginning of the crown of the crisis we have set ourselves right towards the fight, against this crisis and in a way that we have fully raised the health system to the highest possible level, and on the other hand that we have made it possible, with one massive support of 8, over 8 billion kuna, to the functioning of the Croatian economy, and this rebalancing can be seen first of all. Furthermore, what is important to say is that in the announced, announced fifth round of tax reform despite this state budget, the government of the Republic of Croatia has found opportunities to increase wages for Croatian workers. It should also be said that nearly 2 million Croatian taxpayers were freed from earlier tax reforms during the government of Andrej Plenkovic from income tax scissors. Therefore, all those whom the Croatian government has made possible by earlier tax reform not to pay income tax now go one more step further and release Croatian taxpayers on income, which contributes to an increase in wages. At the same time other compensatory measures We will allow units of local self-government not to be reduced to budgets. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u10861	Thank you very much. The apartment will be approved. You're looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u10862	Thank you very much, President. Dear counterpart Bačić hurt Article 238 because he keeps saying that in Croatia the government has allowed honey and milk to flow, but he forgot to say in the end that the people only need to get two barrels, one for honey, one for milk. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u10863	And a barrel of warning for you. Well, this isn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, this one's nothing. Is there anyone else? No, then we'll continue at 10 o'clock and 20 minutes. It's 10:00. 10 o'clock. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING IN 10.20 HOURS]] I ask you to take your seats and call on the now respected Prime Minister, Andrej Plenkovic, to address us first and present the budget rebalancing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u10865	President-in-Office of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished MPs and MPs today, Marić and I will present a proposal to amend and supplement the State budget and financial plans of extra budget beneficiaries for 2020. So, as we discussed yesterday under these extraordinary circumstances and thanks to the economic crisis caused by the pandemic of the coronary virus before you is the second annual budget rebalancing for 2020. In the last few years, our government has led a responsible budgetary policy aimed at the stability of public finances and on sound planning of budgetary revenues and expenditure. That allowed us to welcome this crisis ready. I will remind you that in the context of fiscal consolidation, our efforts can be summed up in several key but important stages. First, the achievement of budget surpluses and a significant reduction in the share of public debt in GDP. Then coming out of the excessive budget deficit procedure, it was another 2017, then removing excessive macroeconomic imbalances, entering Croatia into the European Course Mechanism 2 in early July of this year and continuing its journey towards the euro area, returning Croatia to the investment credit rating that we kept in the time of the crisis despite a strong blow to our economy due to this pandemic. No current economic crisis, no major depression in 1929 and the '30s, no recession in 2008, has occurred in 2009 so lightningly or caused such a profound decline in economic activity, and has affected the whole world. In the face of this economic crisis, Zagreb hit an earthquake, causing damages estimated at $86 billion. In these circumstances, the government had to react strongly, and we brought in two comprehensive and targeted packages of economic measures aimed at preserving jobs and easing the negative consequences in individual sectors which have also reduced revenue, while increasing the cost side of the state budget. Before the pandemic broke out, our fiscal policy was in the function of economic growth, aimed at further strengthening fiscal sustainability. We have succeeded in doing so and this shows three consecutive years of budget surplus. This year has been an exception in the practice of our budget rebalances, but I would also like to say that we have already gone with the redistributions of this spring to the 5% before the first rebalancing that was adopted, and this possibility of 5% the Ministry of Finance is using continuously. It was expected that under these circumstances the fall in economic activity was strong, and we also had an unrecorded fall in budget revenues. I would like to remind you that two strong fiscal measures were implemented from the first rebalancing, the first delay, or the partial or full release from tax and contribution payments, which put the budget at 5.3 billion kuna, the second measures to preserve jobs that continue today. We've been talking about this for the past few days. By the middle of October, seven billion kunas were paid. I said yesterday or the day before yesterday that by the end of this year, we're likely to pay 8.1 billion kuna by the end of this year. With all the above, I would like to point out that we as a government have been constantly reducing the tax burden and in the four reform rounds that have been implemented so far. If we hadn't done that, today a much greater number of our citizens and businesses would have been much harder to withstand the pressure and burden of this crisis. We adopted a package of four laws on the fifth round of tax reform this morning at the government. A word on the amendments to the Law on VAT, the Law on Tax on Profit, the Tax on Income and the Law on Fiscalisation in Cash. This is about additional charges that will lead to a total discharge of more than 10 billion kuna. To respond immediately to this comment by Mr. Grbin, who was referred to and the recommendations we heard about this morning, which are above all not what you said, we looked at them a little, however, but you are now going to the same offside as your predecessor in the campaign. You're saying we're going to make a mistake with the tax charge, so we're going to have bigger tax revenues. Well, that's normal in the economy. It is seen as individual discharge, and the total amount of income is higher. Here's an example, when we cut the profit tax from 20 to 18 or from 20 to 12% of the total income from the profit tax increased by 15%. I'm sure Mr. Lalovac knows what I'm talking about and knows every minister of finance, so we're talking about individual discharges here. A few words about estimates of movement for the domestic economy. We predict that in 2020 the economic downturn will be 8%, these are our forecasts, the government forecasts, that's easier for us than our initial forecasts, and in the next year we expect a 5% economic growth, and in 2022 growth of 3.4%. So far published economic indicators for the third quarter point to recovery after the initial impact we had in this crisis. This is, in our opinion, the consequence of both timely and affected epidemiological measures, but also the measures taken for the activities of the Croatian economy. We also expect the inflow of funds from European funds, I will remind you today that we are 105% of the contract of funds from the current multi-annual financial framework. For recovery, we will use European funds in the future, the Multiannual Financial Framework 2021-2027. 12.9 billion, the EU's "New Generations" 10.6 billion mechanism, we also have a SURE instrument from which we have secured favourable loans of around 1 billion euros, under the REACT-EU 735m euros, and also what is the most important National Recovery and Resistance Programme will be the basis for withdrawing funds over the next few years. A few words about the rebalancing itself, so I repeat, aware of these consequences that we are in, we have used a favourable fiscal space that we have practically created for ourselves in previous years because we have held strong fiscal support, fiscal discipline and responsible management of public finances, so we have been prepared for this crisis the simplest. We expect that, given the duration of the pandemic, we will still need to find solutions for fair economic support, ensuring all costs in the health system, and also helping the most vulnerable groups in society. From the expenditure, I will mention increasing the allocation of European funds to preserve jobs and reduce working time. The first stage of rebuilding buildings damaged by an earthquake. These changes increase total budget revenues by €9.2 billion and are now €131.1 billion. Total expenditures increase by 8.6 billion kuna and from 147.3 to 155.9 billion kuna respectively. In line with the planned developments in income and expenditure, the general government is expected to record a deficit of 29.5 billion kuna and 8% of GDP, respectively. We also expect to increase the share of public debt in GDP in 2020 compared to 2019 by 14.5% points and to be 87.3% compared to this reduction we had before. This is unfortunately due to unexpected increased borrowing needs and the negative effect caused by this pandemic. After strong public debt growth in 2020, we expect a decrease in public debt in GDP in 2021 at an average rate of 2% in the upcoming three-year period. So we want about 2023 to get to levels of 81.2%. We will continue with our activities that will keep us on track, the path towards the euro area, continue to be responsible for the responsible management of public finances, find the best ways to do so when it comes to new responsibilities, that means that these duties are favourable to whether they are on domestic financial markets, on international, wise use of European funds and closing the financial structure in the most favourable way possible. Of course, given the way we've managed public finances so far, this is not expensive at all, on the contrary, but what's most important is that the salaries are secured, pensions are secured, employers' salaries are provided for the private sector to the extent that they are unprecedented, and on this trail of this policy we make sure that the state works and that, together with the maximum efforts, we bridge the crisis we are in. Here's so much for the introduction, and this other one will now say Vice President Maric. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u10866	Thank you, Prime Minister. And I'm calling on the vice president and the finance minister to continue the exposure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u10867	Thank you very much. The Honorable President of HS, the Honorable Ladies and Gentlemen Representatives. Here's to teaching the Prime Minister's words a few details about the rebalancing itself. You have heard that we have updated our economic downturn projection this year from the original 9.4 to 8% in about 25 minutes and the European Commission will come up with its latest autumn projections and we will see how they view Croatia not only for the coming years but also for the whole European economy, so there will certainly be opportunities during the debate to refer to it. Otherwise, as far as the revenue side of the budget is concerned, and perhaps before I say just one brief note, you know that over the past 4 years, we have generally, not normally, but every year, had one end of the year, finding practically every year the same amount of income compared to planned and expenditure compared to what we planned to find a better result, three years in a row and surplus of the general government budget, i.e. reducing the share of public debt in GDP. Unfortunately, this year there is another rebalancing, but at the same time some of the components of the rebalancing should also be particularly apostropheal as well as how much and why it grows or falls. Compared to last year, our tax revenues, here I will focus on tax revenues and the contributions are lower by about $12.2 billion, but again when we compare the situation or what we have proposed both in the rebalancing and in the 5th month, the situation is slightly better without the intention of making the situation more beautiful, very clearly, very clean, so some 7 and some billion kunas better than the plan that is in some way and understandable because we have then predicted a greater GDP drop. As for expenditure, they are larger compared to the initial plan for 8.6 billion kuna, and compared to when we look at only those expenditures from so-called. General sources of 6.9 billion kuna, that's what affects the overall score. So I'm going to be taxing on certain ministries or for purposes, I believe you've looked at materials and tables and you must know those figures. The Ministry of Finance 2.3 billion kuna more, you know for a fact that in the rebalancing itself, we have used certain legal possibilities of greater flexibility in terms of planning mainly interest expenditure, exchange rates and the like. However, one of the major changes is in the health system, or in the Ministry of Health, one billion of which is one billion 340 for a long hospital, and I believe that we will talk a lot about it today, plus another 200 million kuna, also for obligations to suppliers, but through HZZO. It's also 195 million kuna for the KBC Rijeka project. Ministry of Labour and Pension System, Family and Social Policy Billions and 400, for pensions, for unemployment benefits of some 218, 381 million kuna support for the preservation of jobs by the end of the year, 56 for an allowance for assistance and care, 108 personal disability, 44 parent status. The Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development 413 million kuna, most of which refers to LNG. The Ministry of Science and Education is one of the ministries such as the MUP, where the share of salaries and resources for employees is relatively higher, and among other things, more than 360 million kuna, 217 relate to staff expenditure, but also to participation in EU projects, judicial disputes and decentralisation funds. The Ministry of Agriculture 270 million kuna, encouraging measures, cattle, fisheries, sugar beet producers, rural development, unfortunately and 61.5 million kuna for court rulings and debts. There is a similar thing with the MUP, which out of the total of 200 million even 42 million kuna plans to spend additionally in such a way that we have to return the funds to the European Commission for Irregularities that have been in recent years. It is something I sincerely hope will not be so much and often recorded in the budget, so we are talking about using the Schengen instrument since a few years ago, so I will immediately apostrophe before Vice President Bozinović's term. Also, the EU Ministry of Regional Development and Funds 100 million of which 88 kuna to co-finance projects. The Department of Justice has about 80 million kunas, employees and material expenditures. The Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure most of their increase concerns the assistance of Croatia airlines. We all know well not only our air carrier, but also global air carriers are certainly among the most affected by the crisis itself. Central State Office for Demography and Youth 45 million, Foreign Affairs 31, Culture 26. I would also point out that when we look at the overall picture of the expenditure side of the budget, we can actually conclude that this year the budget went largely to say almost entirely with increases to preserve jobs. The number you've already heard up to now 7 billion by the end of 8.1 billion kuna and we're only talking about net payments, we can add to that amount 5% that we've paid for the 2 pensions column, and also for the write-off measures, there's no tax on that amount, there's no contribution to health and 1 pillar. Also a billion and 200 for different types of Covid measures specifically sectorally related to tourism, culture, sport, but also for health care to obtain different types of protective equipment and similar and 4.8 billion kunas of unambiguous loans to HABOR 1.5, HAMAG 670 million, local self-government of a billion 200, HZZ somewhere around a billion and a half. All in all, compared to the original plan, the state budget is therefore a deficit of €24.8 billion, €554 million less than the May plan. As far as extra budget users are concerned, their surplus is slightly less than 761 million kuna, which is about 150 kuna less. Units of local and regional self-government deficits of 2.7 billion kunas or billions and 800 million kunas more, when we add certain other adjustments, we come up with a number of 29 and a half billion kunas missing from the ESA 2010 methodology or 8% of GDP. These figures include all of what I have said so far plus, of course, some of the items that concern and further help both the economy and some other systems within the state itself. In addition to these points, I will mention briefly because the component and the Law on the Implementation of the Law on the Implementation of the State Budget for this year, very often in discussions on any subject of fiscal policy, we also focus on the debate on local self-government because there are also a lot of mayors and mayors in the Croatian Parliament. Here I will say that this law empowers the Government to give consent to the borrowing of units of local and regional or regional self-government up to 6% of last year's revenues. You know that traditionally it's 3%, now with this enforcement law by the end of the year, we're giving it the opportunity to rise to 6%. In two weeks we'll be here from the same pay phone representing next year's budget, going back to 3%, but you also know that the liquidity of both central states and locals is very important. It also opens up the possibility of paying off the funds of unambiguous loans and by the end of the year, I repeat once again only until now a billion and 200 million kunas have been paid off. This law will provide for, or foresee, this particular payment to the hospital sector or drugstores for the settlement of the already mentioned liabilities, and also, the total debt is put into the overall framework of all our funding needs, I will just say, as regards the fall in income from financial assets and borrowing, it is reduced by around 437 million kuna. On some previous occasions, I don't have much time right now, but I've elaborated, so probably through the replicas and through the discussion that even before the summer break, we've filled out the full financing account. I'll remind all of us together who were here at 5. i.e. under these conditions, the debate on rebalancing was largely or well conducted exactly how to secure liquidity, the functioning of the state and the state budget, but also, now that it is seen in this crisis, aid and how the state can freeze both the economy and the whole society as such. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u10868	Thank you, and vice president of the government. Before we move to replicas, there are 14 of them for the Prime Minister and I think it's four for the vice president, come in, fellow Petrov, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u10869	President-in-Office of the Parliament, I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Most Club because we need to assess whether it makes any sense to discuss this kind of debate, with this exposed, I've been polite, I've also heard the Prime Minister and Minister of Finance, as they see all this happening, I'm afraid that they don't live in real Croatia. And they're not really looking at everything that's going on. We had a chance today to listen to the Prime Minister talking about the Great Depression in 1929, when it happened, then he said that we were hallucinating. But good. I also accept the possibility that in such a situation it can be more difficult to assess, but yet, from the very beginning, it has been 8 months, and are we seriously going to talk when someone tells me that today we are going to discuss the budget and spend the whole day, and the whole budget and budget changes have been adopted on unrealistic and unserious grounds? So I've been listening today where someone tells me that total income and total expenditure for the last few years has been in the plus. Leave the primary surplus aside, tell the people the way it is. At the time when the final incomes were included, the final expenditures, you were minus. We're hearing today that you were in the plus. I'm not just taking the last year. And then we'll talk about something serious today. You're talking about how you said, responsible policy with rational expenditures and that you welcomed this crisis ready. Responsible policy, rational expenditure, 2016 120 billion kuna expenditure, 2020. 150 billion. You know, when my family raises costs by 30% a month, my family feels that we live better, we spend more, 30%, you're telling me that someone in our country feels that we live better after spending 30% of the money every year.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u10870	I thank my colleague Petrov. The apartment will be approved. Is anyone else picking up for a break? If not, we'll continue at 10.55. It's 10:00.46. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING AT 10:57 A.M.]] Here is another replica for the Prime Minister and two replicas for the vice president from other rooms, and we also have a colleague, Puljak, who will replicate for the first time in the history of HS video. Here you go, Mr. President. He's the first fellow Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u10872	Thank you very much. Prime Minister, I see this rebalance as well as the budget that was planned, in 2018 you had a meeting of the Government in Split and you said then 2 billion kuna. 2 billion projects, to this day zero kuna. All significant projects in the Dalmatian part simply do not exist. Dalmatia and the Dalmatian Zagora give a lot, a lot of money to the Croatian budget, we will not talk about tourism, here we will say my Cetina hydroenergy gives 40% of the Croatian hydropower. So why, let's say the Cetin Region could not launch a project that was launched in 2016 by making documentation fast road connection... which would bring 50,000 people closer to Split and that would be the most prospective and most desirable area. But so far, zero. Oleg Butkovic simply put these infrastructure projects as if he were the head of Novi Vinodolski Municipality, and not as minister, he threw everything around his myst. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u10873	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u10874	Thank you very much, Mr. Bulj. First of all, you know that our government is leading a policy of even regional development, that it holds equally to the Split-Dalmatia County, to the City of Split that we have excellent cooperation with both the mayor and the mayor, as well as to all other counties and parts of Croatia. The government's session in Split was excellent, it was great, it was full of projects, we also in the budget for next year predicted funds, especially when it comes to road infrastructure, which will allow access roads and the resolution of key transport nodes that exist, especially with regard to the City of Split. I support the efforts of both Mayor and Mayor Andre Krstulovic Opara, who has my support, and now that he has said for health reasons that he can no longer go to the elections for Split. And I want to tell you that through the project Dalmatinska Zagora-Gorski-Kotar-Lika-Banovina we will try to finance these parts of Croatia with the most important support including the Cetina landscape.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u10875	Thank you very much. A fellow Bull's breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u10876	Thank you very much. Your Honor. The President of the Croatian Government has said here what they say every four years,...the election year will be again in the budget always the same projects for the Dalmatian Zagora, for my Sinj and the Cetina region. ... Branko Bačić, but I'm telling you this is true. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] He's the same... The Ravce-Drvenik Vrgorje tunnel in 2005, you know what it was made, nothing. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Once again... Branka Bačić... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u10877	Comrade Bull, you're getting a second warning again. I ask you not to do this and do not abuse the violation of the Rules of Procedure and then replicate, so a reminder for your fellow Bull once again. Now it's my fellow BArtulics' turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u10878	Thank you. Mr. Prime Minister, we agree that you are not responsible for the crown crisis and for the earthquake in Zagreb, and I will say that we will support any tax discharge, but I will remind you that since you inherited former Prime Minister Oreshkovic's expenditures, every year about 5 to 6 billion kuna, no matter how many residents are in decline. The total share of public spending in GDP is too high in Croatia almost 50%, we are among the most vulnerable economies of the new members. So the problem is that it doesn't seem enough, Croatia is vulnerable, and it doesn't have to be to this extent. My question concerns public procurement, the irrational management of our funds through public procurement, we don't see a shift in whether you can say anything about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u10879	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u10880	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I see that you are using two hats, the hat of Prime Minister Oreshkovic's advisor, and that hat of the adviser to President Josipovic, who comes from the SDP. As far as the discharge policy is concerned, I'm glad you're supporting it, so our government and today's tax reform package is going with an extra discharge, you'll see when these laws come to the Parliament all together we're going over 10 billion discharges through these few waves plus administrative discharges. The fact that we're expanding the tax base leads to higher incomes. As far as public procurement is concerned, there are laws that are in line with European legislation, we also have a state commission dealing with possible complaints, we have a central office at government level dealing with public procurement, we want transparency and control and the best service and the best price, everything that can be improved will be improved.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u10881	Thank you. Injury to my colleague Bartulic's Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u10882	Thank you. I'm calling in an article. In 238, therefore, this invitation to two hats, so Prime Minister Oreshkovic's advisor, and what you said about the SDP, I don't know how to make such a statement. It's completely said I would inappropriately and unnecessarily in this House in this way refer to the question I asked to the best extent. I don't know where that came from.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u10883	My colleague Bartulica, I can't say that there's been a breach of the Rules of Procedure here because there have been evaluations that seem to be correct. You were both an adviser to both President Josipovic and Prime Minister Oreshkovic, so I have nothing to intervene for here. So I have nothing to intervene for here. Well, it does matter or it doesn't matter. It's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, colleague Zekanovic, it's your turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u10884	The Honorable Prime Minister and the Honorable President of the Assembly have now seen an incredible scene that the Prime Minister, while counterpart Bartulica, gives an injury to the Rules of Procedure's cell phone for a pay phone. Is that, uh, did I get a good look at the Prime Minister? That you're playing with a phone for a pay phone in the Croatian Parliament as your colleague speaks to you, I think I've seen well. I don't know, I don't know who you might have been texting Trump, I'm sorry that he lost a Biden card, I don't know, but I didn't expect it from you, I have to admit really, here you are a little disappointed me. Here's a question, specifically, briefly comment on helping me with the abroad within the general budget that has grown by 2 billion 480 million kuna, the item is a subset of 353 sources of 57.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u10885	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u10886	I certainly haven't dealt with the esteemed representative Zekanovic's crown beer, while I've been answering here for three days ready to ask all questions of parliamentary representatives like you were supposed to tell the virus and beer for a while, that's the first thing. As for our international obligations, everything we finance, and we finance whether it's international membership fees, so I'm going to answer that question when it comes to our contribution to the European budget, it's around 4 billion kuna today, 530 million euro. In the next financial perspective it will increase something but not significantly, it will go up to around EUR 585 million per year, in any case it is extremely good given the revenues we will make. We'll be in plus as we are today in plus by now, 28 billion kuna. Thus, our expenses for any the international obligation is both binding and justified. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u10887	You'd like a break, I assume, if you'd like.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u10888	The Honorable President of the Assembly, the Honorable Prime Minister...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u10889	Prime Minister, you can have this one in place.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u10890	I really, really have to say I'm disappointed the second time. First I'm going to say what you were playing with your phone for the pay phone is one disastrous behavior. The other thing is, once again, it's imploding to me that you're following my Facebook and that you saw me toasting with a fellow Croatian general, war hero, General Glasnović, and I'm glad you saw it. The third thing that you are constantly ignoring is that I was the 1 in the Croatian Parliament, not 2 or 3 or 7, while you were walking around Croatia and lobbying to be elected president of the HDZ. And you because you have the media, all the media, the mass, means everything from all the televisions you'll still get the chance to keep this ridiculous discredition of the root beer and keep telling what a lie is because I didn't say it, I didn't think it, I didn't do it. I never gave you your diseases, your anemia, your croissants in Paris because it's below every level, what you're doing and what makes fun of the president is wrong, and you from this place are letting yourself play under the belt. I don't know what it is, so at least you're a man of great talent, I told you myself and you know that you are eloquent you know languages and that you can also represent us in Europe, and you come here and you act like you're in a Balkan pub, this is the Croatian State, this is the Croatian National Assembly and the Prime Minister when he comes to this highest house there's nothing to play with a phone for a payphone but you should respect every representative and representative of Bartulic and Representative of Bulj and anyone else, you can do better than that. Don't go down there to that level, if you want to toast your attitude with a crown beer against the crown we can do it later.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u10891	Thank you, colleague Zekanovic, now think for 10 minutes I will give you a break on what you just said, but before that, my colleague Boric is still hurting his Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u10892	Thank you very much, dear President, so here is Article 238, which speaks of the fact that the great Croat Zekanovic is not able to behave in the assembly because he obviously resents others for what he does all the time. I watched him as he lied, he typed on his cell phone all the time and gave himself the right to do so, and the fact is that Mr. Bartulica's head obviously fits on every hat and that today shouldn't be the subject of a riot, and that Mr. Zekanovic is decent to the citizens, you'll see, now you'll hear.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u10893	Thank you very much. So, about the cell phone. At this point I see several MPs typing on a cell phone so that if you started it, if you warned a little bit we'd stay in the assembly, so, well, everyone can rebel against it isn't that bad. Here you go, pal Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u10894	238nd colleague Boric, never, no one from the pay phone has been playing with your cell phone and that's legitimate for you to get involved with your boss, but it's my advice for you to fit your ears.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u10895	Come on, colleague Zekanovic, don't use those phrases because, as you replicate, someone else has the right to replicate, or any representative in the assembly can replicate, so you don't have to disqualify him in that way. So what would you like? That you can talk, and everyone else is silent, and then if they talk, then charge them with courting someone, incorrectly. Here's my colleague, Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u10896	You don't have to be his lawyer, he can tell you himself.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u10897	Thank you very much. Here I have announced how my colleague Zekanovic will behave and he immediately confirmed it, his dictionary, the vocabulary in the assembly is the level of molo worse bar, so simply a man needs to earn a warning and I don't know why you didn't give it to him because what he does here every day just isn't durable anymore. I think he should have been warned because he doesn't know how to behave in the assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u10898	My friend I'm gonna fight now that I'm gonna give him a heads-up, it's gonna turn out like I'm courting you, and I really can't do that. I'm taking a break from 10 minutes. It's 11:00. 10 o'clock. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 11:17 AM]] Now it's my dear fellow Zurovec, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u10900	Dear Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister, I would like to begin by thanking the Deputy Prime Minister for a good dialogue on the Committee on Finance and to highlight the problems we have raised on the Committee itself. In fact, looking at that rebalancing itself, but of course budget projections, we're basically spending more than we're making. So the expenditures on wages and material expenditures are increasing, and on the other hand, even this rise in unemployment, the 9th month watching last year and this year there's a huge increase. I don't think anyone here blames the Prime Minister or anyone here for some kind of coronary crisis, but I think it's time for certain cuts to be made. The rebalancing itself whenever it comes to the end of the year, of course some things are trying to iron out, but on the other hand, if we've made some bad moves, we need them of course and admit it, so I hope you'll take care of it here in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u10901	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u10902	I have to admit, I don't know what the question is, but I heard a comment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u10903	Comrade Bačić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u10904	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Prime Minister, I regret that there is no Mr. Grbin, he has just regretted a break on behalf of the SDP Club voiced opposition from the SDP to the salary increase in Croatia, which will be based on the announced reform, the tax reform that we will discuss next week. Since the reform will allow for an increase in all salaries in Croatia of more than 5,000 kuna, I am concerned that the SDP is considering that 5,000 kuna is a large salary, it speaks enough about the situation in the SDP. But I am also interested in Mr. President what the government is planning and what it has done over the past month and what it will do to really increase wages for all Croatian workers whose salary is less than 5,000 kuna. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u10905	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u10906	You know that we have increased the personal deduction to 4,000 kuna during our term of office and I believe that many of our fellow citizens have felt it. It is also important to know that in one of the past waves of tax reforms, we have also made it possible for non-taxable incomes to go to 12,000 kuna levels, and there have been other reforms that have allowed different benefits to be paid to employees by employers. So we've made a maximum effort to raise salaries and those that are lower by nearly a million and 900 thousand of our non-income citizens, whether they're employees, whether they're pensioners, and through collective negotiations we've increased salaries both in the state and in the public sector by 15%, and we're going to, and we're going to see more for health. and for schooling. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u10907	She's a colleague of Martincevic's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u10908	Dear Prime Minister, there are things we are pleased with in this budget rebalancing, and these relate primarily to the return of the debt to the Varazdin and the Koprivnica-Kristevina County by the state. In fact, the debt totaled interest has increased to more than 45 million kuna, which is specifically for the Varazdin County, so almost half of our original budget and we are glad that these funds are provided because they will be very useful in this situation in our county. What's not good at this rebalancing is the fact that the University of the North has been reduced by 3 million kunas. They decreased because they did not implement some programmes, and they did not implement it because the ministry did not give the permit. Otherwise, the University of the North had the least planned funding from all universities in the ranking, so only 35 million kuna, Pula, Zadar, Dubrovnik far more, so I ask only the budget to take care of being put in an equal position.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u10909	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u10910	Thank you very much, I'm glad you mentioned that we are systematically solving this residual issue of public-private partnership that was mostly going to finance schools, sports halls in Varazdinska and a little less in Koprivnica-Kristevci County, we have in the past term of legal changes in a certain way solved the future. Now and on the basis of these disputes that have ended we are solving the past to simulate this topic and here thanks both to the activities and to you and representatives of Štromar, Strick and all others who come from Varazdin County. When it comes to the University of the North, if I remember well, we in last year's budget just accepted the amendment of several MPs, and Mr. Habjan agrees on the changes in budget and made it possible for more funds, it is important that Varazdin develops not only in the historical, cultural, economic center but as a university centre and a youth centre in the northwest of Croatia, so we will continue it to support as well as Koprivnica. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u10911	Comrade Bedekovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u10912	Thank you very much. The President-in-Office of the Government from the analysis of budget rebalancing and figures and indicators is visible the continuity of responsible budgetary policy and, among other things, the effective fight against and coronation of the virus and the fight to preserve jobs, but certainly what I would like is to highlight the continuity of ensuring all rights in the system of social care and special care and the care of particularly wounded groups, showing an increase in or insurance of funds and how for persons with disabilities, compensation for assistance and care, personal disability, but also the status of the care provider and parent who, which I will remind this year in the course of the crisis for the first time in 12 years, has been increased from 2,500 to 4,000 kuna and I am extremely pleased that the budget rebalance is therefore provided with money for this purpose, and what I am particularly pleased to see no right from the social care system during this crisis It wasn't.../incomprehensible/... [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u10913	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u10914	Thank you very much, of course, that we have taken care of the most vulnerable groups in society, not a single right regarding the welfare system nor is it reduced nor is it lacking in funds. Persons with disabilities are always an important priority of our government's activities, so in the past term, thanks to both you and the representatives of Lukacic. You know that one of the recent measures was to increase the funds for the parents of the foster parents we raised, remember, from 2500 to 4000 kuna. At that moment, we predicted 40 million kunas for this year, if I remember correctly. This obligation is there, of course, we will pay off all these funds because we are aware of how much effort these parents and love are making towards their children and I think they deserve such support and that it was the right decision. And here's a thank you to all of you who, through the dialogue and the way you ran and contributed, encouraged and contributed to that decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u10915	Hey, buddy Buck, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u10916	Thank you, Mr. President, Your Honor. In the context of the 2021 budget, you mentioned a package of tax laws that was in the government today, and Minister Maric spoke about these laws at the Finance and Budget Committee meeting yesterday. Of course, he was talking about these laws having important imputations to the budget because it is estimated that the loss of tax revenue by the series of amendments proposed are approximately 2 billion kuna. However, these tax laws will come to the Parliament's agenda only next week, as much as in the regular procedure, I think, in two readings. On the other hand, the budget had already been, entered the parliamentary procedure and we discussed it on the Committee on Budgets. I think that such a prejudge of Parliament's decision is not correct, I think, this kind of method actually implies and prejudges the Parliament's decision on something that is vital to the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u10917	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u10918	Dear Representative Bakic, the Government respects the Croatian Parliament and this week ultimately shows you that fact, we are here to hear your position, to explain the government's policy, to justify our views, to remove arguments that do not stand, which are rarely misleading, based on some alternative facts and many other locks that we are witnessing in political space, but that's all okay, that's all democracy. You, of course, follow the work of the Ministry of Finance, and you know that all these four laws were in public debate, that these laws didn't come to the government's session because they were written this weekend. They were in a public debate, announced, were part of our programme, the whole interested public could make comments. Of course, their entry into force has been calculated into budget planning for 2021.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u10919	Comrade Lalovec, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u10920	Thank you, well-respected Prime Minister, thank you for being with us today so we can answer your questions. The structure of the budget and the rebalancing has changed over the last seven years and I think of the good. Another of our most important revenues is EU revenue. Next year, they're going to exceed even the contribution revenue, I think 25 billion kuna. Since this determines the dynamics of the economy to get out of the economic crisis as soon as possible, I am interested and I think that it is some kind of proposal and a request to go to the budget with some investment catalogue for next year because it is very important for the perception of the public and perceptions of us here in the Assembly, if we know that we expect 5% economic growth, that there are certain and that there are 25 billion kuna in the budget, that there are certain concrete measures in which sectors we know that we are and as far as airports are concerned that they are finished, the projects, that bridge, highways, etc., are being interested in dynamics because this is also very important because of this multiannual financial framework and dynamics that we are coming out of the crisis as soon as possible and that it will all be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u10921	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u10922	Thank you, well-respected representative Lalovac, and I am pleased that you, as former finance minister and expert on the issue and economy and finance, also see some positive shifts during our membership in the EU. These seven years basically, these first seven years of membership and that these effects are found. We're thinking about the years ahead of us, realizing that this is the year we're going to try to put in parentheses, it happened, we didn't plan it, but it happened. But in the coming years, not only will we plan wisely and wisely both incomes and expenditures and dissipate citizens and entrepreneurs, but we will rely on these, we call them pillows. And pillows are these European funds whose dynamics are not known at the moment. But what we will do and what we will discuss together with you here will be the National Recovery and Resistance Programme, which will also include reforms in individual components and projects. So far, the Ministry of Regional Development has received projects in value 230 billion, already now, before we did. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Triage, just so you know. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u10923	Comrade Peric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u10924	The Honorable President of HS, the Honorable Prime Minister. Well, some colleagues actually mention that they don't care about local self-government, that there are certain disadvantages and stuff, and they actually forget how it happened in their governments when they haven't compensated or compensated for any of what units of local self-government lost. In doing so, it is very important to say that with these tax reforms, the government has very much compensated all these missing revenues, and what is announced and the increase in the share of both cities, municipalities, and the county. So it's very strange that such a concern is now for local and regional self-government, and it wasn't when they were headed by the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u10925	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u10926	Thank you, well-respected representative Peric. Today's tax reform package is 4/5 of that package. We expect that the 5th law will join the second reading of these 4 laws that we have sent to you today, which will be the Law on the financing of units of local and regional self-government that will make steps here and here, which have been agreed in advance, agreed on by both mayors and mayors and municipalities, thereby increasing their income from income tax, so they will increase, and I will only point out that in the current term of office compared to 2017 and the adopted laws and entry into force, we have increased the incomes of Croatia's unit of local and regional self-government by 3.5 billion kuna and we continue with this trend, and what needs to be further closed has taken over the state on ourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u10927	Thank you. Comrade Lukacic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u10928	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Prime Minister. In part, you have already responded to the reply of your colleague Bedekovic to my question, but I would like to conclude just one more thing, except for the compensation for increasing the status of parents to carers and carers you have also saved jobs for people with disabilities by providing the means to preserve their jobs. And I want to say that this pandemic is difficult for everyone in the Republic of Croatia, Europe and the world I dare say that it is particularly difficult and challenging for people with disabilities. I believe that you will continue to lead, I will not say worry because it does not care that it is our obligation and you have shown both you and the entire government that you are simply listening to people from the field, I expect you will continue to do so because there are still great challenges for people with disabilities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u10929	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u10930	Thank you very much, esteemed representative Lukačić. I'm first of all glad that you and I, let's metaphorically share this very seat in HS that you're sitting on and that's an important message for both the government and me personally for more than half a million of our citizens who are people with disabilities we respect and who we help through our policies and increasing the various resources through the measures we take. What I would especially like to say is that we will continue not only as you say taking care of the people on the ground but continue our systematic, structured dialogue, and soon the International Day of Persons with Disabilities is approaching, and I will ask you to help me and Minister Aladrović to re-establish a meeting with all relevant members of the Government in order to agree under these circumstances what else we can do to facilitate this crisis that we are all facing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u10931	Comrade Brumnic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u10932	The Honorable President of the Croatian Government. It is very interesting to listen to your speeches and to see how you see this country and life in it. I have to admit, listening to you, I have a feeling we're living in some happy land. And in this happy landscape of this healthy finance you're talking about should be shown in the well-being of Croatian citizens or of the lives of Croatian citizens, which I think Croatian citizens don't really notice. But it would be interesting for you to hear how much of this delayed cost has been transferred in the following year, how many loans have been raised or how many loans have been taken on behalf of future revenues and how much is the actual deficit in this budget. And that's why I don't think the finances are healthy.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u10933	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u10934	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Brumnic, our fiscal policy, our budget approach in general, and this is the responsible management of public finances certainly adorns the principle of transparency. So when we say that we're going to record as a general state less than 29.5 billion kuna, that's how it is. And as for borrowing, unlike what Mr. from the Most, Mr. Petrov was talking about that we didn't have a budget surplus, I don't know which papers he reads, which he feeds on how his household doesn't see it. Maybe he forgot that he had that APN loan for his house which is perfectly legitimate, but all of it together he could record and see. We are in charge in due time on domestic financial markets, in international financial markets, taking advantage of good co-operation with the CNB with pension funds, and we use effective European funds, and therefore the state works, and so will happen throughout the mandate.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u10935	Thank you very much. Comrade Blažević, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u10936	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Prime Minister. Here today there have been talks about tax reforms that have really always affected the budget of the unit of local self-government. Since 2017, this has changed, we have compensatory measures, fiscal balancings as well as colleagues Peric and I personally believe that this has enabled us all to bridge the situation together because both cities and municipalities have joined the government and have brought various support measures to entrepreneurs. However, here is also a significant increase in the item of the Fund for Co-financing of Euro Projects, another 88 million kuna. I looked for that item a few years back, 2018 was a significant 222 million kuna, and in 2015, the SDP government’s last year was only 500,000 kuna. This Fund for the co-financing of eu projects contributes to the sustainability of JLS finances and other Euro project holders, which I believe is really important in these moments.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u10937	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u10938	Thank you very much. We've been keeping an eye on the whole first term, keeping an eye on these rebalancings, we'll be keeping an eye on next year. I would just like to mention that it is very important to remember sometimes in the sea of this information, me and Minister Maric say that when negotiations were held in this multiannual financial framework if you remember one of the proposals was to increase the amount of national co-financing from 15% to 25, it did not happen to us as a new EU member especially in these budgetary circumstances almost so an additional income, if I can say so in any case is less expenditure. Therefore, this fact is important, and it is particularly important that the entire EU mechanism of the next generation that we will absorb through the national programme of resilience and recovery does not require co-financing, and has a pre-financing of 10% now, the EU Parliament wants even and 20%, which would be a billion and 200 million kuna for Croatia... [[Intruder: Thank you.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u10939	Comrade Petyr, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u10940	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, here, while great efforts are being made to ensure the financial resources for the functioning of health care, for the preservation of the economy and new jobs, on the other hand, as a bomb, have echoed the news that 141 million kuna will have to be provided for the conduct of irresponsible politicians. As we have learned through discussions with the finance minister, it is about some debts, about the need to return funds to the EU budget from some previous governments. Do you know what this is about? Who is responsible and will those responsible answer because of the very high means?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u10941	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u10942	I know what this is about. It's about how much I remember a few projects that they've been through. The mechanism of correction, therefore, is a part of the resources involved, seems to me a system of science and education at one point and part of the funds relating to the Ministry of the Interior. There's probably someone else, but these are two, I think, the most important. In any case, we have predicted it, we are still having talks with the EU Commission's competent services to try to reduce some of these corrections and reduce them, but here, this is something that happened in earlier governments, I don't want to talk too much about who's to blame and how guilty he is, it's very well known. What's important here is that we all learn better, more transparent, more quality project preparation, manage them and absorb these funds that we don't have such corrections. In the end, all of this is unfortunately the state budget, in most cases But it's a good thing you marked that problem. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u10943	Now let's go to the last line for Prime Minister Tomaševic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u10944	Thank you. I'd like to know when you try to defend yourself, Prime Minister, the tax reform you adopted today at the government's meeting, so when you say, for example, the income tax that individual tax exemption means less total tax revenues. Let me explain to you what alchemy reduction in the tax rate for the highest salary in this country will lead to a total increase in tax revenues, also given that the richer citizens will go into savings and not even return through VAT. On the other hand, in light of the changes to the income law, you say that this is one of the goals of social justice. So give me the same explanation, during this crisis, in which universe is socially fair to reduce means the highest rate, means to cut the rate by the highest salary in this country? So to us MPs, ministers, we get our salary to be around 1,000 kuna, and 75% of citizens with gross salary means less than 10 grand. It'll only be a few dozen kunas to them. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] savings on the salary. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u10945	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u10946	Dear Representative Tomaševic, I hope that you learned some lessons from the election campaign for the elections that was on July 5th about this logic or alchemy that you're talking about was represented by Mr Bernardić and then the Restart coalition ended up at the 41st term, not 68, how many... projected by Mr. Hajdash Doncic after the SDP building team with Baba Wang. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] It's very important, these are the foundations that we have to keep repeating, to take care of. As far as tax discharge is concerned, so one more time I'm telling you, it's always seen exclusively on an individual basis. Everything we've charged so far, we've made it possible to be more tax revenue, so of course someone who has more resources to have more consumption. So you know what share of personal spending in our GDP. Therefore, you will have an opportunity here with Minister Maric throughout today's debate on how much further he will show you how much we have done for those who have fewer incomes, and I have said something in response Mr. Baichi. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u10947	Thank you. I thank the Honorable Prime Minister. I now call upon the respected Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance Maric... Now he will respond to the replicas. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Just a second for the lady to wipe out the pay phone. Thank you very much. Here you go, Vice President. The first is the line for a respectable colleague of the Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u10948	Thank you, well-respected president of HS, dear Vice-President Maric, so, as you were saying at the opening, it's not because you wanted to, but because you had to and I'm interested in spending, so we had a rebalancing in May. Compared to the rebalancing in May you have an increase we have on interest of 1.4 billion kuna, including 430 million kuna for negative exchange rates, therefore this is the difference compared to the rebalancing that was in May. What's happened, what's happened, what we've got, is maybe something predicted in May, so now, it's overlooked in May, and now it's got to go to hell here, which is because it's one of the biggest items that we have on the spending side. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u10949	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u10950	Thank you, well-respected MPs, you've seen it well, I said it briefly in the opening part. So, speaking of interest expenditures, exchange rates, unfortunately these 400 and some million kunas have already manifested themselves in exchange for exchange rate differences. So these are the items we have and the legal possibility, so use that more flexible approach in terms of planning. You remember that in May itself when we went with the budget rebalancing, then in those circumstances a complete budget was put into function of the measures that we then put into effect. At that point we still haven't, of course, solved the problem and this, the funding issue by the end of the year solved in some way and everything that we could redistribute from the budget and direct to measures to preserve jobs we have done. Now in this rebalancing we put it all together under the same hat and in the end it's numbers that are real.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u10951	Thank you. My colleague Maximchuk, here you go. I'm sorry for the violation of the Rules of Procedure, my colleague Reiner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u10952	I'm aware in advance that I'm going to get a warning I think you need to make it very clear here. The SDP government owed us 6% interest. This government, in good times before the crown, owed us an interest of 0.05%, so negative interest, minus. And now that she's performed since... We're in debt at 0.09%. .../Speakers speak at the same time./... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u10953	You've been a visionary, and you're getting a warning. Comrade Maximchuk, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u10954	Thank you very much, Vice President. Here, after several excellent years of world life, and the Croatian economy was in exceptional circumstances, it was necessary to preserve jobs, maintain a health system, and what interests me as to how and under what conditions was Croatia in charge during the pandemic period, and what are the most important funding measures by the end of the year?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u10955	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u10956	Thank you very much. Dear MPs, so I'll put it this way, the first arrangement was with banks at five to seven years total of one billion euros, interest was still below 1%, followed by an arrangement with domestic pension funds of 445 million euros, also at five years at 0.75 and then we went to the international bond capital market of 2 billion euros per 1.5%. However, the next instrument on the domestic market has returned that interest in some way within 1%, and that's what's safe when we look at all the circumstances, I mean reality, but at the same time we should mention that, just before the pandemic broke out, it's teaching, and I'll be careful that I don't get a warning, but teaching what the vice president of the Parliament said just now, our last issue on the domestic market for five years was 0.25, we even issued the first bond at 20 years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u10957	Thank you very much. Now it's time for Comrade Dragon.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u10958	Your Honor, Vice President. As I come from the Slavonian Municipality of Vrpolje where agriculture is too heavy an activity, where there is a large number of OPGs living exclusively from agriculture and I see that in these difficult times of crisis you have increased the funds by the rebalancing of the state budget for 2020 for the sector or the activity of the Ministry of Agriculture of 264.5 million kuna, and I am therefore interested in this increase in the resources to which it will apply and what measures and activities? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u10959	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u10960	Thank you very much. So again, here's a small relationship with that five-month rebalancing thing, and then we said that focus is on preserving jobs, but let's say the policy of encouraging agricultural production will also not be essentially under the question of whether we ourselves know it's generally, not as a rule, but it's always the first half of the year that both the relatively larger and absolute larger amount goes precisely for the purpose of encouraging agricultural production because then some seasonal time is also the most important time. Now in this particular rebalancing this means, you said well, a total of nearly 270 million kunas increase from which 200 million kunas on the one hand are rural development measures as much as we can say horizontal, but also more specifically related to cattle, fishing, sugar tail manufacturers all of them are now recognized in that part. You are well aware that Minister Vukkovic is conducting a continuous dialogue with producers and everyone and of course we are concerned that as much as possible from both national and European funding is provided for agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u10961	Thank you. Now I welcome my colleague, Puljak, for the first time in HS replica video, so here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u10962	Here's a greeting... on this occasion. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here's my question regarding local and regional self-government, namely the rate of borrowing of local units for this year from 3 to 6% of last year's revenues to increase long-term borrowing requirements. The deficit of local self-government is 2.7 billion kuna, i.e. It's increased by $1.8 billion more than the plan. Is this government planning soon to reform a local self-government that would reduce the number of units of local self-government of 556 local units planning to reorganise something so that these deficits in the future are smaller? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u10963	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u10964	Thank you very much. Dear MPs, here's the first thing we'd like to offer you as soon as possible to recover and return to the benches. As far as local self-government is concerned, you know, and we have talked about this many times that, with fiscal decentralisation, we strongly advocate and functional decentralisation that after more than a decade of decentralisation, certain functions are being redefined, as appropriate, and therefore further steps are being taken in terms of what we call the reform of the administration that implies and the total volume, the total size in terms of wages, in terms of the number of employees, but above all, what is most important, and that is the quality of the service. You recognize that well, I also said in the introduction that we have increased and only for this year, given the very large demands, I will only do one thing to apostrophe and I have missed it in the opening part of all that extra space for the debt still exclusively for capital investments.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u10965	Thank you. I also thank my colleague, Puljak, and I wish you a quick return to the Assembly and thank our services for having successfully completed this task for the first time. Now let's go to the last line, dear colleague Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u10966	The Honorable Ministers. In vain of projections until there is no responsibility for the illegal and vain use of funds. You granted the DORH a significant increase in their resources in order to pay only one hanging for 8.6 million kuna and that of KPMG in the case of Agrokor, although such evidence is unusable in the criminal proceedings, it is a total waste of funds, which is due to conflicts of interest because of the fact that skills are usually taken from the list of authorised court witches. My question is who will take responsibility for you, your government or the leadership of USKOK and DORH? And to compare that these 8.6 million kunas are really thrown out of money for nothing here, I'm going to compare to the amount of 4 million kuna the state pays for several courts that are rented because for that there are state-owned buildings.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u10967	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u10968	Thank you very much. Dear MPs, I've never been, so I'm not going to comment on any judicial proceedings or proceedings now. I can only say that when we talk about not right now, but one of the previous budget rebalancings, the budgetary users of this or that level have certain requirements within certain options according to some other priorities are allocated. There is a system of control of spending, there is a system of overall fiscal responsibility, and all of us, as the heads of the individual bodies of the budget users, must act in accordance with this law and account for both HS and the Croatian public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u10969	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the proposal and replica. Now I'm gonna call the committee's reporters if they want to take the floor? No one's answering, so we're going to have a discussion. The first is the Party's Representatives' Club with Name and Surname, Smart and Glass, respected counterpart Anka Mrak Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u10970	Thank you very much. The Honorable President of HS, the Honorable Deputy Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues. This year really is nothing normal, nor has any of what happened since spring 2020 been imagined in the worst dreams, let alone planned, planned or prepared. This is a fact that we need to consider and have a certain amount of understanding on it. After having had a really strong impact on the economy in the second quarter, a huge drop in income, and at the same time as the third quarter's cost increases, something made things easier than what was predicted by the rebalance in May, and now we're where we are, we're doing the best we know. Under the circumstances, the Ministry of Finance and Minister Maric have probably tried to do what is realistically possible, unfortunately it is not enough to repair all the weaknesses of our country, its main parts and the biggest budget consumers and, of course, the key thing in this is that no rebalancing can compensate for the poor work of the government and the poor initial position we are in. The coronary virus, or the coronary crisis that caused it, loved all those instabilitys and irregularities that have been known in Croatia for years and in which, in the last 4 years, the government of Andrej Plenkovic, and the HDZ government has not done so much. We understand that for the crown crisis we couldn't prepare or predict, but it came to an abandoned state that nobody really deals with. She's come to a state where there's no will, no idea of having any kind of fun, I'm going to use that little but infamous word of reform. Health is a bottomless bag, costs are increasing while reducing quality and availability of services, and debts are flying into the sky. We have burdened the peace system with everything and everything, and we will have at least the money for pensions that we pay to those who have really earned these pensions by working. And speaking of work, one of the most serious, if not the most serious problem in Croatia is the area of work. First of all, we don't have enough people to do those jobs in Croatia and then fill the budget, but worse still, those jobs we have aren't good jobs. Let's not lie and be honest in Croatia there are not enough jobs that can guarantee a stable economy, stable and serious budget revenues and sufficient diversity between the economic branches to make us more resilient to the crisis. We jobs for educated and highly skilled people who work in companies that create high added value themselves earn enough, and then pay accordingly and certain taxes simply don't have enough and that's one of the biggest weaknesses of our economy that can be seen on budgeting, especially in situations like this with the crown. Speaking of modern and good jobs, one way to get to them would finally be to understand the meaning and the main benefit of what is called the Green Plan or Green Development at all. The idea of green development, general programmes and a list of objectives that the entire EU wants to achieve for us is a unique opportunity that has never been given to us since Croatia is an independent state. We are given the opportunity to finally catch a train of economically developed Europe based on modern industry and new technologies using the huge funds available to us for this project. They can finance everything from research and development to human requalification and various adaptations to the new green economy. The combination of environmental conservation, the use of renewable energy sources and development through state-of-the-art technologies could be our ticket to the successful future of a country where people have what to do and there are people who work. Regardless of the awareness that this is about a rebalancing that is under the burden of the current crisis, we are sorry, and we think it is wrong that there is no intention to change the direction of development in green development and to make a lasting commitment to it. We think it's a big mistake and we're missing a great opportunity for a fundamental change. Only when we do not depend excessively on tourism, hospitality, weather, fashion and all other unpredictable and vulnerable things that we depend on will we be able to rely seriously on our own income and their own sustainability and predictability at the level of the state budget. Speaking of green technologies and green development, the question is, how does the additional 377 million kuna for LNG terminal in Krk fit together? The intention of ensuring Croatia's energy independence or supply from various channels and sources is clear. But in the context of green development, we will need to seriously consider further development of energy and the use of certain energy sources. Another important project that we must encourage at all levels is digitisation and information. In this rebalancing, it is seen in the article of the Central State Office for the Development of a Digital Society that the increase in investment for themselves says that their vision is developed, secure and inclusive digital society achieved through the synergy of the economy, public administration, science, research and education. This is a good vision, and when we look at the situation in which we find ourselves with the crown crisis, we understand how much complete digitisation and information is important from public administration through education, trade and the entire economy. It is certainly an important process and we would be pleased and if there were even a little more money for increased investment. And of course in this rebalancing you can see another one of those permanent and major problems of the Croatian state, our health care. Honestly, it's completely unclear how we could afford the debt to large drugstores to grow to such heights to become a questionable supply of drugs, I'm not going to say at all that it's possible right now at the time of the pandemic because it was at any time even in the best times completely unimaginable situation. Dear Minister Maric, I know it's home budget management and that his leadership can't be compared to the state's leadership, but it's all the same, and the rest are nuances. But honestly, anyone who's ever had to pay a single bill well knows that if you don't pay for a little longer time or they'll stop delivering to us or we'll be forced to pay the debt in some other way, mostly at extra costs and complications. This rebalancing is the consequence of the crisis, but only in part, it is the consequence of large state systems. The dependence of the budget on an underdeveloped economy which relys too much on long-term insecure activity that does not create sufficient additional value. But also our growing inability to catch a connection with the developed countries of Europe including that we are able to use the funds available to us. We had experience with a major crisis that was ten years ago. Unlike some other countries that are from this major crisis, they recovered relatively quickly, we did not. We haven't done it, and one of the reasons is that big dependence on the state. So don't be like that story again, when a monkey lifts up a rock and sees a snake and faints, it rises out of unconsciousness and sees a snake again. The first time he should have done it, but the second time he shouldn't have done it, history is a life teacher let's learn something. It's logical that you go to another rebalance, and it's logical that no one could predict this great pandemic that's worldwide, but this pandemic has seen all the causes in our country. So if we know what our problem is, let's try to start doing that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u10971	Thank you. The next club will be that representative of national minorities, and time will be shared by the Vice-President of this High House, the respected representative Furio Radin and the respected representative of Bilek. First of all, Honorable Representative Radin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u10972	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The financial situation of the nation is adjusted traditionally immediately prior to the adoption of the budget. The rebalancing and budget documents are even the very fact that they are in each other's tight correlation, and this year they are specific for other reasons, not only for long-awaited reasons such as the local elections that will take place in several months and which are very important, I am talking about both documents, but from the unpredictable and very uncertain circumstances of the covida-19 pandemic which has struck a difficult blow to the vulnerable Croatian economy. Politics and the conventional economy will take quite different forms from next year, let's not fool ourselves whether we want it or not. Respecting all the strategies that we adopt and which we bring, and respecting the rebalancing effort, the real life of Croatian citizens will be at the turning point, and the outcome depends on all of us whether and in what time we will become a modern country that will face its shortcomings seriously and especially on our problems. I don't have time to list them all, and for some important I'm convinced they'll finally hire top experts. We should look for experts far away from politics and from parties that will point to solutions with all the denials that are inevitable for a country that needs to be recovered. The solutions to combat corruption, the fundamental sin of our society, must be the first such problem. The solution to the forms of an economy relying only on tourism and shopping centres, and not on production, is such a problem for sure, and the lack of investment or poor investment stimulation, especially investment in new technologies is the third of the many problems I said before that I would not list them all. Politics must finally not be treated by public opinion but rather take a step forward and create public opinion, without fear. Alternative development is conflict over Ustasha and Partisans, debate on other ideological issues such as collected abortions, birth identities, fostering and adoption models of children and xenophobia all discussions held in this home, and beyond this home practically permanent. These are the topics that dominate when it's a deficit of serious projects. With regard to specific issues of national minorities related to the budget, I will only list three, and then I will give my colleague Bileku, or you will give the word to my colleague Bilek. The first is that the funds for the Council for National Minorities, meaning these are resources for all associations of national minorities, remain unchanged and we can be satisfied there. We can also be satisfied with the increase in funds programmed for the rebalancing of the Office for Human Rights and Rights of National Minorities, which is where we express our natural satisfaction. And there are a few other places that are the expression, let's say the relative pleasure that a colleague will talk about later. I am not satisfied, of course, but an agreement has been reached between the County of Istria, the Government, and at the end of the Italian Union for reasons relating to which funds must be spent before, and in this case these are funds from Italy, I am not satisfied that they have been transferred to the next year of the High School in Bujama, the Leonardo de Vinci High School, but I am convinced, however, that the word we gave each other will be maintained. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u10973	Thank you. The Honorable Representative Bilek will continue. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u10974	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President of HS, respected representatives of the Ministry of Finance, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Well, before us is the second-in-a-kind budget rebalance for 2020, we can say that the other unfortunately is due to the pandemic of covida-19 and this crisis at the world level. We know as it was in the opening words of the speech that so far and in the past term of government led by Mr Plenkovic and now we were otherwise planning quite solidly, so the rebalancing itself got ahead of only budgeting, and my colleagues and colleagues from the units of local and regional self-government to align all those planned revenues, increase or decrease over some things. In the past term, this government has also stressed the necessity and need of consolidation of public finances in order, among other things, to be prepared for a timely response at the moment of the possible economic and economic crisis, which unfortunately, we have all witnessed that it has happened to us, and not by blaming any of us here in the House but unfortunately by blaming some others, but it has passed on not only to us, but to the entire people, to the whole of Europe, to the whole world. Public finances of the Republic of Croatia have welcomed the start of this crisis in such a way that, at the very beginning, it was practically possible to go with measures to help in the economy, to preserve jobs, write-offs and tax releases and a whole series of different measures aimed primarily at protecting the lives and health of all our citizens, but also on the economic plan, above all at preserving jobs, production and economy as a whole that we have witnessed from the very beginning of this crisis that when we align what the Croatian Government and Croatian state budget have done for its citizens, we see for our companies with other countries that as a percentage of how much budget has been put at the disposal of our economy that we are almost among the first in the world. Unfortunately, the Croatian economy is still largely dependent on imports, on this side it is essential to increase self-sufficiency in all possible segments, especially in agricultural production or food production. It is therefore important to point out that the rebalancing of the state budget is planning an increase of €264.5 million for the Ministry of Agriculture, which is essentially the largest part of the national share of co-financing of measures from the Rural Development Programme of Croatia and €81 million, which except in the manufacturing part are extremely important and for participation in co-financing of projects from measures such as those of 74.1 used by local self-government units for all the various projects that have been reported for co-financing from the European level. These projects have already been implemented in a large part, but of course that part of the funds should now be returned to the units of local self-government in order for their financial system to be stable and I am glad that one of these parts of the funds, of course, and direct support in agriculture we know, and announced by the minister that the advances for next year are coming soon. The rebalancing of this budget provides additional resources for other small-value support countries, will also ensure the closure of the government's three-year programme to support the livestock sector. In the spring of closure, but also in the summer of the opening, economic activity and the tourist season for which we have witnessed, although the fall has also been less than we have calculated in the first budget rebalancing, which is important to us exclusively and funds for co-financing with units of local self-government, but also to continue building infrastructure such as the continuation of the fast road Farkaševac – Bjelovar, reconstruction of the state road DC5 Grubisno Polje – Končanica – Daruvar, many other projects throughout Croatia, and especially in Slavonia, but also the government's programme for the area inhabited by national minorities through the Ministry of Regional Development, Economy and Agriculture, noting that in the economy we have not yet been paid, we are not contracted to hope that we will still withdraw these funds. Although largely for Covid's sake, unfortunately we will not be able to complete the operational programmes of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for national minorities during this period of 2016. – 2020, but I am glad that at least part of the funds are assured that we will somehow succeed, and what I can say to end is that the National Minority Club will still support this budget rebalancing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u10975	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is the green-left bloc on behalf of which the respected representative Damir Bakic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u10976	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister and esteemed colleagues, dear colleagues, I ask you to allow me, at the beginning, one quite principled remark. This rebalancing we're talking about today was at a government meeting just a week ago last Thursday. Two days ago, he was also discussed at the session of our Assembly Committee on Finance and Budget. So we Parliamentarians, not just the media and the citizens, but we only had a week to study the document. The document is usually 741 pages long, and the draft budget we will also be discussing soon has 1108 pages. But that's not all, the document actually both documents are originally table structures, but they're printed and then scanned and delivered to us in electronic form in an unsearchable format just like PDF. It all points to it as if it was done, just as if everything was done to make it impossible for us in our business. It was particularly difficult to hear the explanation that it was all in accordance with the law. That is, according to the law, but it is not in accordance with the spirit of our duty to do, so our understanding of how we should do this work. In fact, it's amazing that this is happening at all and that we still have to warn about this, we're not, you're not at the same job, the government, but it's as if it's trying to put as many obstacles as possible to us as possible, even though these obstacles meant a few steps back in so much digitization, even if they meant thousands, hundreds of thousands of pages printed, and even if they still don't know how many questionnaires over our understanding of transparency. So from this point on, I ask that future documents of such nature be delivered in an original digital table format. In particular, I ask that we also have a draft budget for 2021 which has already been referred to the parliamentary procedure and that has passed the debate on the parent committee along with this rebalancing document so that we can compare, so that both documents are delivered to us in a searchable electronic form. As far as content is concerned, of course, that we have clear circumstances in which this rebalancing occurred, we have clear reasons why this is already the second rebalance of this year and we respect all objective difficulties. We are aware therefore of all objective difficulties and are equally aware of the efforts that should have been made to agree on this rebalancing. We still have a number of content issues and remarks, and I'm only going to mention some now. First of all, it's unclear from the attached rebalancing which is actually his idea, which is priorities, whether it's rationalization and saving or they're redistributing according to some social criteria. Generally reduced funds for institutions intended to protect some vulnerable groups, e.g. D.A.'s office for children and the D.A.'s office for disabled persons, their budget is reduced by approximately 2.5%. The funds for the Ministry of Demography, family, youth and social policy have also been reduced by 43.44%, although part of that huge reduction is the result of over-deploying the ministries, but it would be interesting to see all the individual items and hear the arguments. It once again brings us back to my previous remark. It's precisely because of the ministry's misdemeanor, precisely because it's not possible to compare the documents directly anymore because we don't have one correspondence between the previous ministry organisation and the new one, which is why we need a document that we'll be able to search more. Hence, the Central Office for Demography and Youth received as much as 850 million kunas. However, it is not clear what this office will do except for maternity and parental permits. On the other hand, as I said, the reduction of funds provided for by the Ministry of Demography, family, youth and social policy is 43.44% or even 2.75 billion. If, then, 850 million has been rerouted to the Central Office for Demography and Youth, it is unclear what with other means, where they are exactly. We'd like to know and hear the explanation. So we need to know what's really redistributed, and what's a possible reduction. Furthermore, the Ministry of Defence is one of the few institutions whose budget has not been reduced in this crisis time, so from May to now and this budget has been on the table and is now still 4.8 billion in the new proposal. However, expenditure on employees who are not otherwise small within the ministry is 2.66 billion. Staff expenditure, however, has increased by almost 4%. It's okay with budget rules, but it would be interesting to know what that reason is, what actually happened in these few months. Central Office, State Office for Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia has a budget of around 80 million kuna and it is only slightly reduced by 1.73%. The budget of the central office, however, is even larger than a number of institutions that are important for the fight against corruption, such as the State Audit Office, the Competition Protection Agency, the Central State Public Procurement Office, the Commission for Decision on the conflict of interest, the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures. It is also unclear that our priorities and priorities were in designing this rebalancing. More, of course, we will also have the opportunity and need to say in the budget debate for next year. And in heaven, just to mention the HAZU budget is 81 million kuna and it is one of the biggest relative winners in this rebalancing because it is growing by over 9%. And then, in a similar way, this brings us to the question of what are criteria and priorities, for example. A little while ago, the State, the Central State Public Procurement Office, which has 10 times smaller funds, was reduced by 4.5%. And it could therefore be concluded that we have taken another step back in the fight against corruption in public procurement procedures. Here are just some of the observations, some questions. Further remarks, further remarks, comments will naturally be made by colleagues and colleagues from our Green-Left bloc Club in their individual discussions. In any case, we will, with interest, hear with attention the reasons and answers of the minister, hear and hear the data eventually and all of this will be more useful to us in that real debate that is yet to come, and that is the debate on the State budget for 2021. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u10977	Thank you, too. Now it's Mr. Davor Dretar's turn to speak on behalf of the House Movement Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u10978	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. For starters, when we talk about the budget, I like the folk figure. It's about like when I watched my late grandmother mix the scrutins, so if there was too little dough and it was supposed to bring him to what we say wasn't enough, so here we understand the crown crisis, we understand the earthquake in Zagreb and the enormous pressures on the Croatian budget and we can't say that it's not working there. But we have to warn the fact that it's too little to test because simply if we pull the dough too hard, it breaks. So let me just mention some of the data that we could read from this rebalance and projection for some future budgets. Compared to the same period last year, our total revenues are less by cca 5 billion and expenditures are higher by just over 10 billion. When we're undermining the first six months, we're down to nearly 17 billion. It is clear that the cause of this decline is less VAT, less excise duty and other contributions, which is also logical when we close people in houses, we limit their decline in consumption is a clear result. In the spring, it was important to scare the citizens a little bit before the elections, but now it is no longer desirable to sow fear, so here we hear from my schoolmate that panic is gone and that everything is fine. Since in the spring it was not appropriate to spread panic and put companies in jail so it is not appropriate to wear pink glasses and speak everything will be fine. What each of us as an ordinary citizen does when we get fired or our incomes fall significantly, so of course we cut costs. It's the only logical behavior unless we have a rich uncle in Germany sending us money. This is how we treat the famous billions that Europe will send us, and we are currently at the beginning of Europe not because our people are lazy, ignorant or incompetent, but because of the unreasonable waste of this very money because of crime and clientelism on the charge we get years of inconclusive as many MPs of the Homeland Movement keep repeating. So far, we have made almost no reforms in the mandate of the last government except for the reform of national holidays. And now we depend on the aid coming from the EU in the first 6 months over 10 billion, it is 50% of the collected VAT in the collected period of double the collected profit tax. 7 billion are from funds, 3 billion from EU aid. Unfortunately, we know that money from these funds is mainly invested in the public sector and that practice continues, we do not invest it in production activities. We are left with one big question that we worry about all the time and we will not stop worrying about it, how much of it ends up in the private pockets of local powers. But we'll let the institutions do their job. Another thing that concerns us is the fact that the annual revenues from state-owned public enterprises bring a worryingly low 800 million kuna, which is the amount that one serious company is, and even on a small market like Croatia can earn during the same period. This amount testifies to the relation to the management of state assets and the negative selection in the selection of management. We are not surprised because the affairs in public enterprises are also part of our daily lives. Political staffing on the party key chooses similar and not capable, so there are consistent results. Income from state property management will drop to only 1.5% of total budget revenues. I don't know which times we repeat in most cases the state is a bad owner, we strongly advocate the continuation of the privatisation of state goods and businesses, of course, along with what is essential to preserve strategic resources such as Croatian water, sea, air and forest. Our expenditures are 77 billion kuna, they are 15% higher than the previous year, of which 90 million kuna was spent on services, on promotion services. We know ourselves that we live in modern times when advertising is to be advertised, and let's hope that this amount brings adequate results to the growth of sales, so whatever it is. If we haven't recorded any increase in these investments, let's look at modern times and maybe we'd better take 10 times less money to hire Kim Kardashian or Rita Ora to bathe on Dubrovnik's salary, to shoot lambs in Klis, so they put all that on Instangram, I believe that the results might be better. As one of the biggest problems in attracting foreign investment, unsettled land books and the slowness of institutions are often cited. We are calling for strong support in the projections of future budgets for the digitisation of all processes and for the overall acceleration of the implementation of administrative and judicial procedures through the introduction of new, fast and clean technologies. We invest more and more in agriculture, the results are getting worse. 4.4 billion in the first 6 months 700 million more than last year, and we are still very, very, very far from what we can call sufficient food production. So we don't make enough to eat, let alone to export. From the announced 22 billion euros that we mentioned on the Committee on Transport the other day, we are preparing to get new trains, which is for every praise, since our compositions are both passenger and freighter years old and 40 years old. The electrification of the railway, the rehabilitation and modernisation of the old railways and the construction of the new railways are a strategic goal in the next few years we need to make a quality connection throughout Croatia through the modern rail transport system, and we appeal once again not to forget Slavonia, although our prime minister with full right is in favour of the even development of Croatian regions we must recognise that Slavonia is currently a bit of a helmet for others. Incomes from penalties and administrative measures as another way of filling the state budget are partly achieved on the basis of penalties for traffic offences, then tax and customs offences to a slightly smaller extent than the various other penalties. This is quite interesting to me, I'm expected to see revenue from penalties and administrative measures rise. For 2021, 595 million kuna were planned, the projections for 2022 amounted to 611.5 million kuna and 627,8 million kuna for 2023. Since we cannot know or predict an increase in income from the basic tax and customs offences, we are left with a view to growing through the payment of traffic penalties. We are all aware of that and welcome it, but we remind ourselves of the installation of new cameras that will capture those who are speeding, drone shooting and other expensive technologies, however, only aim at filling the state budget. Their effect on general traffic security is very questionable or even none. In the projections of future budgets, we propose greater investment in driver education, preventive action and increasing technical correctness of the vehicle, which is a safe investment in the preservation of human lives which we lose too much on Croatian roads. Since budgeting for next year is in the body, we hope that the competent ministries will take care of the fact that uncertainty remains the main feature of the next period and that, when drawing up the budget for expenditure shit, they will first take care of that fact. We are left to wait for the reforms to be announced, but unfortunately they are not implemented or implemented badly and slowly, and without reforms we will only continue to transfer figures from expenditure to the revenue side of the budget, to raise loans, to borrow and remain at the beginning of the EU. I would just like to finish with one of the freshest information that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has proposed at a session this morning to the Assembly to reject requests for the interpretation of the MPs of the Homeland Movement in connection with the Ve Krsh-Padene. So if any of you are deprived of funds from this budget or any of your future budgets, know that this is more than 2 billion kunas of your money, dear citizens, and the government does not want to discuss it. They obviously have for their strudel doughs, and they tell you if you don't have the strudels, drink the water in which you should have cooked them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u10979	Thank you, too. Injuries to the Rules of Procedure Mr. Ivanovic, I didn't notice her, and you did, and tell us.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u10980	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'm new to HS, so I don't know all the articles yet, but I guess that's art. 238. I was denied information to find out where Mr. Dretar was headed and became a righteous man among us here in HS and in the wider Croatian public knowing that he was also with Mr. Vidosevic and Bandic, so eventually, if we will, with Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u10981	Thank you very much, Mr. Ivanovic. 2nd, Art. 238, unfortunately I have to give a warning, but this one, and I'm telling everyone, read the article. 238, please. I've read it a few times and you'll see what's in it and what's not in it... And read to yourselves the entire Rules of Procedure, for it is good, for it is good. Mr. Zekanovic, and then Mr. Sacic will speak in front of the Croatian Sovereigns' Club, please. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u10982	Dear Vice President HS, respected colleagues and colleagues, respected Deputy Prime Minister of Croatia, the Prime Minister had more important work to do, we see that he's in a lot of trouble, that even after the pay phone, he's doing this to this speaker about as his colleagues look and work. So this is something that no one has ever done in HS, but Andrej Plenkovic, here I do now, so he's playing from this place with his phone and it's legitimate and even his colleagues justify it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u10983	Let's get to the point please, Mr. Zekanovic. Is 238 talking about it?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u10984	The colleagues justify it, and the president, or head of the session, ignores it. So this is legitimate, just that... A message to answer here, just a second, so I can't right now. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u10985	Please, let's just get on with the subject because it's, it's about art. 238, let's move on to the subject, I'll give you 10 seconds more, but let's move on to the subject please, come on, let's tolerate it, let's get on the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u10986	No, no problem, I think this is, if this time can use the president of the government of the Republic of Croatia's payphone to play with a gesture and to write down who knows who, maybe arranges a white one tonight or a towel, he's with Hvar, then so can I.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u10987	No need, no need, I have to, I have to give you a warning, no need, no need, you're wasting your time, you have a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u10988	All right, all right, all right, all right. Your Honor... Assembly, I'd just like to make a deal... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] The next time he takes the president's cell phone, you give him a warning, too. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u10989	Don't, I can give you another warning, don't... Let's move on to the subject. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u10990	Okay, okay. So this, the subject is next, the topic is the budget or budget rebalance. It mentions here that the government has given 8.1 billion, a billion kuna for measures to preserve jobs, okay, that's one good measure, just so that it's not the money that Andrej Plenkovic gave out of his pocket, that's our country's taxpayers' money again, and we'll be in charge, in charge of paying back all of us. But I agree with that, and it's even one measure that I've supported and that I still support. Here it was said, he mentioned a fellow Lalovec if I'm not mistaken, a catalog of investments, that it would be good to have him since we're going to have a lot of European money now, tens of billions that we'll potentially be able to withdraw. I didn't hear from the Prime Minister that he said it was being prepared and that it existed. Unfortunately, it's a verse and I'm from this place myself, Vice President of the Government, and I'm asking you to really try to make this catalogue of investment as soon as possible and be transparent. For example. As for my city of Sibenik and my Sibenik-Knin County, there is one capital investment of strategic interest for the state of Croatia, at least that's how the Prime Minister put it, which is what it is. Batisel or we Sibenik will know it better than the Tef that hasn't moved from the dead spot. It's going to be around 30 today. with the current HDZ mayor of the 8th year. He didn't do anything objectively. So they didn't even know how to register the company, so for a year, two years it's a failure to register the company. So Minister, I know you have influence, try to encourage the management of the city of Sibenik which obviously does nothing to make the project of strategic interest for the state of Croatia finally start because I don't know if it's just indolence, reluctantness, or maybe it's both intent and guessing to someone. A very important thing that neither you nor the Prime Minister have said, but I would like you to find opportunities later, so say here, which is an increase in EU membership fees, an increase in membership fees. We had 495, now plus 155, so all of 650 million euros. It's a huge increase of billions and 100 million kunas, it needs to be emphasized here and said that people know it's an increase. And I'd like to hear a comment that the president of the government didn't give me, he likes to talk about beer, I don't know what's wrong with him, he can actually talk about some other things, he can say that he and I took a nice picture here, we turned out really nice, here we are, we're shaking hands, but he hasn't answered what 2 billion 480 million kunas are more about, and it's about giving inside the general budget, I guess the EU. Furthermore, you mentioned the decline in GDP, this decline is supposed to be 9.4 now you're saying there's going to be an 8% drop, right? Great, thank God he's not that tall, but I'm still gonna say that Germany is probably going to fall below 6%. So we're not good, we're the worst in Europe again, and I'm going to quote you here from this pay phone that if we get out of recession in 2023, we're going to reach the level of development in 2008. And it's very bad that 15. We stand in place or that means we even have a regression. And finally, given that I'm going to give my colleague Sacic one more little thing he pointed out, I mean colleague Petrov before, and it's very, very important, too. We're talking about a surplus of godliness. So, it's not working, and Croatia didn't have a surplus, even though it's going to be shown as a surplus by you in accounting or financial terms. If the deficit is slightly smaller doesn't mean we have a surplus, we're still a country that lives in a deficit, which makes less money than it spends. If we've reduced that deficit a little this year, it doesn't mean we're in a surplus, it just means a little bit in a smaller deficit. And I'd like it to communicate in that way, although I know that you and the financial dictionary will explain it in a different way again, but things are laiku, they're stronger still, still stay with their own. Here you go, fellow Sacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u10991	Here you go. Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u10992	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, Vice-President, colleagues and colleagues, the Croatian public in this short time ahead of us, I would only like to refresh your memory, namely the Croatian Society of Political Prisoners of Communism, submitted to you at the end of October one request, one request to include them in the financing of the state budget, on, in the division of the Ministry of Culture to the position of the memorial centre for victims of totalitarian regimes, the lexicon of political prisoners and the journal Political Prisoners, with this, with a figure of £600,000 for the year 2021, and they co-financed the rest because the project was huge in which you already participated as Government a few years ago, Minister Marić when he was a minister in the Ministry of State Property in, along with the City of Zagreb you signed an agreement and gave one facility in the human property in the Vlaška region where the City of Croatia has become responsible for the fact that the establishment of this city of Croatia and the Croatian institutions and the Croatian institutions, that the most important importance of Croatia, that the Croatian institutions and Croatian institutions have become responsible in the Croatian institutions. Now, the disputed fact is that this society is left without any funding is a disastrously incomprehensible fact that these years, they have about 9,000 now living members many of them have died, they should not even be said that 80,000 in the SFRY have been imprisoned by the Croatian state for the freedom of an independent Croatian state and we regard them as being threatening fighters for the independence and freedom of the Croatian state. That's what we know about it. I don't need to repeat it. However, today they are in trouble, what is terrible from 2017 to 2020. The Croatian Defence Ministry co-financed them through their competitions, their projects with cca 80,000 kuna. Let's not forget, and President Tudjman was a member of their society. However, since 2020, and these sources have dried up, there is obviously more understanding for various associations that I do not now quote them which did not really want the Republic of Croatia, which can not be brought into line with the incendiary of these fighters for independence and freedom of the Croatian state, and they are our priority in relation to the Croatian Society of Political Prisoners, so I ask you, I appeal we will give as the Club of Croatian Sovereigns and Amendments, but take care of this, we have entered this project, there is a possibility of real and the EU will co-finance, in fact irrevocably give certain funds but the state of Croatia must take one step, so make it possible to actually go into the finalisation of the project documentation. Therefore, I appeal to you to understand the Croatian patriots who previously created us, imprisoned for the Croatian state towards them, this is a minimum debt that we must do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u10993	Thank you very much. We have four injuries to the Rules of Procedure, if they refer to 238 on the first two paragraphs I've already given a warning, I must give you my word if you insist but the warning is already days. Okay, good. I'll say what these items are, talk about a subject that is not subject to discussion, then there was a warning, speak without prior approval of the president. So those two points. Don't blame me if I read that 238 all the time, because it's always breaking. Mrs Grozdana Peric will speak in front of the HDZ Representatives' Club. Well, I asked you, do you insist, yes, well, okay, if you insist then go ahead, Mrs. Peric, insist on hurting the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u10994	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Vice-President of the Government with his associates, is here before us dear colleagues and colleagues there is a rebalancing, second budget rebalancing for 2020.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u10995	I'm sorry, Mrs. Peric, they said, Mr. Boric said he insists on hurting the Rules of Procedure. Did I get that right? It doesn't matter. There you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u10996	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Article 238 to the part concerning this behaviour because all the time I'm saying that my colleague Zekanovic can't behave in the assembly, he came here and apparently asked for a few minutes which he's a party member, because he's also a member in Hrast, he's the president of the sovereigns, with HDZ he's entered the assembly, with the Homeland Movement he's entered the parliament, simply when I remember my colleague Pernar he was a real flyer for him who daily I tell us lessons and about behavior, now and on budget rebalancing and on any possible situation. It should be condemned here in such a way, the man stood here for a minute. [[Intruder: Time, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u10997	Time. Thank you. He's been warned.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u10998	Did he get a warning? All right, then.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u10999	Well, he got a warning I told you. Does anyone else insist on hurting the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. Here you go, Mrs. Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11000	Be consistent, and now give your colleagues a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11001	No colleague Boric spoke correctly, he has the right to do so has the right, by your conduct you deviate from the general rules of conduct in the Assembly about what you're saying is yes. [[/Intruder Zekanovic: About what? About my party memberships, right?]] Let's move on so I don't have to give another warning. No, I'm not giving another warning. Here you go, Mrs. Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11002	Thank you very much. So here's the second rebalancing for 2020. We must note that the first rebalancing as you remember it was already found by more than 2.1 billion kuna funds by redistributing to this year and to keep all of these disasters that were happening to preserve jobs and thus preserve the budget, but also all of what we need. In 2020, it was, in particular, special years and different from others, and it certainly took a lot of knowledge and skills to ensure that all those needs that were foreseen by the budget could also be respected, but also in a certain way, and to help all those who are still going through this period, namely pandemics, diseases, earthquakes, and everything else, in order to settle and compensate for what was reduced by precisely these special disasters. What we all noticed was that in the first part of the first quarter of this year there was a slight growth of 0.4% of economic growth, however the second half, and the second quarter of 2020, a major decline of more than 15.1% of GDP was reported. What is very important to note is that in the previous rebalancing that the forecast for the decline, economic downturn and the decline in GDP of over 9%, however, it was by measures and in one way, that we were saved from this very fall, which is still our tourist season and by unlocking the economy itself in that part of the year that received certain and quality results, so what this rebalancing is predicting is that the economic downturn will be 8%. When you look at what was happening in this period and how much revenue in 2020 then we must say very much that they are increasing in 2020 in this second rebalance by 9.2 billion kuna, and they will be at the same time as the expenditures will rise by 8.6 billion kuna and will be 155.9 billion kuna as predicted by the rebalancing. In this regard, we must make clear that those incomes that are growing are tax revenues primarily from VAT, but we also see a rise in income from contributions at the same time. We must not forget that during this very period, the Government has also adopted two packages of laws that have been allowed to help entrepreneurs and citizens with certain measures and significant incentives and support measures that have allowed a total of 6.9 billion kuna to be paid up to now and paid up to 30.9 billion kuna for that purpose, and still plans by the end of the year about 1.2 billion kuna, totaling more than 8.1 billion kuna. When we look at the planned expenditures ourselves, then we can conclude that these 8.6 billion kunas have a major impact on the result of the general government's budget, primarily on the reasons that more significant increases are related to the recovery of the healthcare sector, pensions, social welfare rights, so let's not forget that it's just some laws, and, above all, the Social Care Act has foreseen an increase in benefits for the unemployed, as well as compensation for assistance and care, for the personal disability, and then help the carer or parent status and application of certain provisions of that law is, in fact, starting and beginning from 1.6.2020, which was then expected to increase these items. What we should certainly mention is the items relating to the Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development, where there is also an increase. Then, respect for all provisions of collective agreements, as well as the Ministry of Agriculture for support in beef, fisheries, sugar tails, sugar beet producers and others. What should be mentioned in particular is that there are also extra-accounters who actually when you look at their numbers have increased and now they are 10 and when you look at how many total incomes they make from their sources, then it's about 1/3 of the budget, or almost 40 billion kuna. The deficit projected during this period is 8% of GDP or 29.5 billion kuna for this rebalancing period. The state budget will have and record a deficit of €24.8 billion and that is what we specifically refer to because it is a 14.5% drop in GDP. So that's 87.3%. That's what we did in the previous period was significantly coming up right up to the fall of public debt in GDP, which we actually had this fall that was much faster than expected. In the law on the implementation of the state budget, we must say that items are changing in the financing account where the debt on the foreign and domestic market has been reduced from 62.5 billion to 59.1 and in the law itself there has been a change in the percentage for the borrowing of units of local and regional self-government to 6%, therefore, only in this period. In particular, I would also warn that local self-government units are also allowed to pay off the unscathed loan, which has made it very easy to operate. I must also draw attention to the views of the Committee on Fiscal Policy, given that fiscal rules have been postponed for this period, and it is indeed indicated that the funds that will be withdrawn from the European Union's funds to be also incentives for the development of our economy. So, the Croatian Democratic Community Club will support this Budget Rebalance proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11003	[[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING AT 13:50 A.M.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11004	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues from the Ministry of Finance. Here we are today having a budget rebalance for 2020, and it would start with some kind of macroeconomic projections. We see that in these projections the government says that the drop in economic activity will be 8%, but what the European Commission published today is, not in line with the documents published by the Government, so I would ask later that the Minister or colleagues from the Government explain why the Commission said that the drop would be 9.6%, so this one, today, means that the minister himself actually said that, I will say my own opinion, but I see that, that this one, I see, has not corrected in today's projections, the European Commission has not corrected the deficit, that it has remained somewhere at 6.5%, so I think that today's information given by the European Commission, sounds a little ugly, but an outdated one, did not, did not use the data of this rebalance. Since they've been working most likely on data from the Ministry or Government, I'm a little surprised by that big gap, though these very revenues you're showing here today, shows that the situation is something better than what they projected 9.6%, so right now, they're asking the question is it some new lockdown, isn't that quite a small difference in the economic downturn, is it, but since I see that they stayed at an old level and a deficit of 6.5% and the deficit is, according to your projections, greater than, 8%, I don't think they, I don't think they've updated all that state data, about the state of the budget. Since by the end of the year it is two months and, or a month and a half, that most of the economic activities have been achieved, I think, however, that these government projections are more realistic than the European Commission projections and the economic downturn, it is, in fact, showing that the impact of tourism on the state of our finances is crucial. Compared to the May 2020 rebalancing, we see that incomes are higher by 7 billion kuna. What's he saying? It says the very sensitivity of the Croatian economy to tourism. A very high sensitivity of 7 billion kuna, and we say that 3 billion kunas have more VAT and 1.5 billion kunas we have more than income from contributions and there are still excise fees and plus profit tax, which I must admit is very surprising. The profit tax this year is nine billion kuna, never again, never again, nine billion kuna, even 2.5 billion kuna more than we predicted. Why am I saying that? Because I see that nine billion kunas will have a tax on profit paid, which means that the situation in the Croatian economy is excellent, so there is no correlation from what entrepreneurs are heard and on the other hand what is the charge in the budget, is 9 billion kuna a very large amount, we all projected that it will be around 5-6 billion, but this is very large, which, and how do I interpret it?, that it will just spill over to the next year, that only the tax on profits and numerous these, the impact on VAT will be shed on next year, and that is why I asked here, and I think it is very important that today the prime minister responded to what the investment catalogue, which are projections, what the government is thinking of doing next year. Why does it matter? It's important because we say we're going to recover at 5%, and that most of that economic activity is going to be based... This growth will be from personal consumption which otherwise accounts for 60% of GDP, makes up the consumption of citizens and other investment consumption, that is, business consumption, investment, see if state spending remains at some similar level as it was in 2020. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now that he had a problem with personal consumption and we see that citizens are having a hard time getting to the money, which this year has fallen wages, why have they fallen wages?, because the simple state paid some average to 4.500,00 kuna these two or three months and it's hard for someone to go to some increase in income and increase the wages of citizens, and simply because they're uncertainty about what's going to happen next year. We see that a large number is still a success, and the question is what will generate economic growth next year. Today, by tax reform, the government has decided that this will affect income tax, so it is an instrument that will increase consumption or income. And what we're different from the government, so I have to admit today that I'm surprised by my fellow Bačić's comment as if the SDP is opposed to an increase in wages and so on, I don't think it's incorrect to say that it is, so we're just for the second model, so you've defined yourself for one model, we think it would be a better second model, so let's talk about different models, so let's here in the debate that models are better, that this is what the debate comes down to, and not in a small way, and in an incorrect judgment of the SDP that we're against pay. Your model goes to reduce income tax rates, and our model is to increase the base of personal deduction from 4,000,00 to 5,000,00 kuna, and then explain why our model, you will explain why your model. Your model says it goes to this part of the salary which is the highest salary, and we believe that by increasing the personal deduction, the level of income increases with citizens who have the average income of around 5-6 thousand kuna, where in Croatia you have the largest share of citizens with that income. And why do we think that's going to boost consumption? You think that those with the highest wages will stimulate consumption. Because those who have the highest wages, they mostly save, everything they get they will put into account and it is shown in this crisis that Croatia is absurd, absurd situation we have that Croatia 8 billion kuna has savings only in a year. Then the question is, how are we doing so well, why do we complain all the time when we have shown this year alone that we are very growing. But why, what savings do citizens grow? Very few people who have the highest income, who have capital income, real estate income, etc. And distribution is completely different. We believe that those citizens who have lower incomes will actually spend most of their income on spending because they have nothing more to save, they live on debt and by increasing the non-taxable part they will reduce the part of their debt that finance their needs and their consumption and therefore we think that our model for getting out of the crisis is more favourable than yours. So we're talking about different models, and we're discussing it very openly, so without any transfers to each other. And I think that's where the debate is going. Just like we said that we welcome salary increases for those who really live on a very low income that isn't even taxed, that's this minimum wage, it doesn't even tax how much it is, how miserable it is, but we have to say on the other hand, compensation measures for that part of the industry that unfortunately hasn't passed structural reform yet, which is that they are being reduced parafiscally imposed. For these industries, such as the textile industry, the leather industry of those industries that are difficult to generate their income because they simply cannot sell the product at a higher price, to reduce the parafiscal burden so that they can, in order to stimulate the consumption of these citizens. What I said here today and what the Prime Minister has actually confirmed to us has changed the structure of the budget by entering the EU, I think that's good, that's my opinion. Why? Because another source of income, another source of income, the most significant source of income, is becoming revenue from the EU. So EU revenues next year will bring 25 billion kuna, even more so than the contributions we receive from the pension system. Now that you have one very significant income, this year I see that it is in a rebalancing somewhere on 19 billion kuna, 25 billion kuna needs to be directed to the economy to change our structure of the economy. For a number of reasons, it's good money. First, the reason why it's good to get that money from the EU is because it's saving our course. We would have serious problems, we would have serious problems if we didn't have that part of the money from the EU, that's what we're all talking about here. You know why? Because the National Bank doesn't have enough foreign exchange reserves to defend the exchange rate, we haven't had green field investments in the last 5-6 years, unfortunately we don't have them and this part of the money we get from the EU stabilizes the exchange rate, and that's good, and that's good to say it's good long-term because we get one part from tourism, we've seen how sensitive we are to tourism and in this context it's good to get most of the money, so not only will we get in this context and for investments, but we need it to stabilise the course and it's here and it shows that the Ministry itself is saying that it's going to give 500 million kuna for exchange rates, the CNB had big exchange rates, etc. and that is why we believe that this money is necessary, just to explain to us the direction in which the Croatian economy is going in the next period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11005	Thank you, too. Now, in front of the Club of HNS Representatives and Independent Representatives, Mr Predrag Štromar will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11006	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, ministers with associates, surely it is difficult, the corona has made its own, and this so great change in rebalancing has not been for a long time, and they simply needed to agree on everything as it has happened. But I must congratulate the government and especially Minister Maric on his behaviour, because in this crisis they acted in the spirit of a good businessman. They were doing the budget work that was best possible and the best way to do it. I thank you on behalf of the businessmen who got help and were able to pay our people's wages. It was the biggest decision of this government this year that is my opinion and the most positive and useful to the economies, but also to all citizens who could then still get paid and we see that more funds will be invested, the prime minister said a billion and 100,000 more this year to plan to help the economies. Surely it is difficult to keep in these conditions of economic activity, but we must now think and what will happen after the crown and how to speed up the economy. The rapid economic recovery is extremely important to us, so I am looking at this plan for 2021, and much less for 2020, in 2020, are corrections, and in '21. It's important what it says and how we're going to use the funds. We need to enable HABOR and HAMAG BICRO budgets so that they can now adapt their measures to the economy, adapt to the new situation and speed up the process of granting credit to especially small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. We must neither give up helping young families to resolve their housing issues. It is commendable to see in the plan for next year and to increase the funds for this purpose and the CO2 emissions provide funds for the energy reconstruction of houses. We know that the building can go first into enhanced activities after the crisis, so all the funds provided for in the budget and plan should be used fully and should be modified in order for the funds to be used urgently to amend the Loan Subsidisation Act. I hope he's already prepared and that he may be in public consultation this year. And here we would now make a little locally patriotic, thanks for the insurance and funds for further activities in the construction of the fast road Varazdin-Ivanec-Lepoglava, to Krapina-Zagorje County. But in rebalancing, I thank most of all for the final resolution of the debt to schools and halls in Varazdin County. After 5 years. My struggles are served with justice. Over 5 years. I personally initiated a lawsuit against the state for the return of money invested in schools in Varazdin County, and based on the agreement we had with the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The government of the Republic of Croatia refused to accept the agreement, and signed it to pay off. I insisted that the Law on Education be amended so that a contract could be signed and funds provided for the county of Varazdinska for the next 18 years. and to be able to pay and comply with education and education obligations in Varazdin County. In the government, I voted in favour of all the budgets where the funds were secured, and that is why I am going to vote for this rebalancing so that the Varazdin County gets everything it hasn't received so far, which is why it should have been received and earned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11007	Thank you, too. Now it'll be Mrs. Gossip. Katarina Nemet speak on behalf of the IDS Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11008	Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs. The figures in the rebalancing of the state budget show how much damage public finances have been caused by the crisis caused by the pandemic of Covid-19. The budget deficit is a huge 25 billion kuna. It's a major-scale crisis that couldn't have been predicted. However, we need to be realistic and open to say that for the poor condition of the Croatian economy, it is not only the coronary virus that is to blame, but also the government's inaction backwards 4g. It is not possible to deny the fact that the implementation of the necessary reforms has always been delayed for other times, and only now do we see what actually happens when the state enters the crisis completely unprepared. There is a 15% decline in GDP in the second quarter, and there is a huge debt to large-scale drugs that counts in billions of kunas. This rebalancing is also suggested that at least part of the debt be paid so that hospitals do not run out of drugs, but we know that the debt is not caused only by this pandemic and is not from yesterday but is increased year by year due to the government's unpreparedness to deal with major health system problems. This type of condition has been going on for years, and it's an old pain that's now taking on bigger and bigger proportions. But the fact is that there is still no concrete solution, and patients cannot and should not be victims of a conflict between government and wholesalerry. And it can be said freely that this temporary, fire-measure problem has not been solved because our health is cramping in debt, the system is about to break, and that is clear, there is no more time. What is necessary are reforms in order for the health system to be financially sustainable, and for how many years we've been talking about it, how many years our health system hasn't worked out. So we must certainly not blame just the crown crisis for the situation in which we are now. That would be hypocritical because all these problems didn't come with the crown and didn't come overnight. We have other very big problems that have been pushed under the carpet for years and are now even more pronounced in these times. One of them is the fact that we rely exclusively on tourism for years. As successful as this economic branch has been in recent years, we IDS have warned of the fact that too much relying on an economic branch can pose a serious danger. And unfortunately, this year, or tourist season, has proved it to us. It was much better than expected in the context of the pandemic, we must admit, but of course it's much worse than what we wanted before the crown of the crisis broke out. However, tourist workers and tourism operators have saved what is being saved. But I deeply hope that this has made us well and that we have finally realized that tourism or tourism income cannot be the only thing we rely on as a country. In addition, it should be repeated that we in tourism as a huge problem have a huge tax burden that has put the Croatian tourist industry in an unfavourable position compared to competition from other tourist countries for years. A further reduction in VAT rates on accommodation services, as well as a reduction in the uniformity of tax rates to catering services, is something we need to think very carefully about if we want to give Croatian tourism such a straw of salvation in this unprecedented crisis. Because the question is how much tourism will recover at all by next year, and another such season in such conditions of business Croatian tourism could not stand. Croatia is a tourist country and it can and must remain. But tourism must develop as an additional value to our economy. Our crucial problem is the slow development of other sectors that must definitely be the cornerstone of the development of the economy, and the Croatian economy is lagging alarmingly behind. For years, we have witnessed the collapse of industry, the fall of goods exports and imports. In fact, we need reforms, but they are real, structural, those that have been missing for years. I will mention here the necessary public administration reform by reducing costs and ineffectiveness that generates a new additional cost. We need industrial reform. We do not have a created environment that will attract sustainable development-based investments. Our potential investors are fleeing the country due to huge and slow red tape, due to unresolved property relations between the state and the local self-government unit, due to poor and unfavourable business policy. Croatia is at the bottom of the European Union under operating and regulatory conditions and, unfortunately, these are facts. We have an abandoned country, an abandoned state property that has potential, but simply because of the government's incompetence it's been failing and it's been that way for years. The activation of state assets is not done or is not done enough. We need agricultural reform. We're importing food and the one we can produce ourselves, which is a complete absurdity. It's necessary that we turn to new technologies. Digitalisation is essential to accelerate overall economic growth. Unfortunately, we also lack a long-term vision of how to start an economy, because our economy is among the worst in Europe and that is a fact. I will repeat, it is not Croatia for no reason at the bottom of various scales and polls in the European Union. But today, the crown is our only culprit or excuse, however you want, for the duties, for the fall of GDP, for the catastrophic state of health, for the dismissal of workers, for the unquality workforce, for the poor situation in the judiciary, for the poor situation in the economy, or for almost everything that hasn't been good in our country for years. I repeat, the truth is that the pandemic has had a negative impact on the whole world. The fact is, all branches suffered significant losses. But let’s not fool ourselves that we would have been much better off than the previous years if it hadn’t been for the pandemic. The Corona crisis is not and can't be an excuse for all the problems we've been having for years and we haven't solved in years. For some of them, I'm afraid it's too late. But there's always a first step. It's always from somewhere and at some point it should start. Let's wake up. Let us accept reality as it really is and begin to solve accumulated problems in the only right way with essential and thorough reforms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11009	Thank you, too. Mrs. Anya Shimpraga will speak in front of the SDSS Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11010	The Honorable Vice President, the Honorable Minister, the Honorable fellow MPs and fellow MPs. We have before us a proposal to amend and supplement the State budget for 2020 and a projection for 2021 and 2022. The September projections on which rebalancing is based show a better revenue side of the budget than were the initial expectations immediately after the COVID crisis broke out. The rebalancing forecasts revenues of 147.2 billion kuna and expenditures of 157.7 billion kuna, as well as the return of the budget deficit to a sustainable level of 2.9% of GDP. The budget deficit is 29.5 billion kuna and 8% of GDP, respectively. The total planned revenue from taxes and contributions in 2020 is lower by €12.2 billion compared to 2019. Total planned expenditure in 2020 financed from all sources is higher by 16 billion kuna compared to 2019 and 11.5%, respectively. The Independent Democratic Serb Party club will support this rebalancing but clearly remind us of what we do further to solve the problems we have been talking about for years. For measures to preserve jobs by 30.9., 6.9 billion kuna was carried out, and what is planned by the end of 2020 will amount to 8.1 billion kuna in total. Other expenditure on COVID measures from supply of commodity supplies, support in sport, agriculture, culture, tourism was made up to €1.2 billion up to 30.9 billion. An additional increase in health obligations indicates how effective it is to strengthen the health system, determine the failures and consequently act. Every citizen of our country must have adequate health care both in Zagreb and Knin in which the largest part of Sibenik-Knin County's hinterland is gravitated. Hospitals like Knin mentioning a trail of negative debates and opinions that in a small space we have a high concentration of irrationally distributed hospital facilities leading to high costs. But with this, the citizens of Knin and the surrounding areas and all other areas that are in a similar situation would certainly disagree, because we all know how much these and such hospitals really mean to us, and they mean life to us. The negative consequences of this crisis have been felt by units of local and regional self-government shown in the lack of income tax revenue of 2.7 billion kuna. The municipalities in the assisted areas have a reduction in income tax revenue from 10, and even up to 25%, which is indeed a lot compared to their budgets. There will be a need to increase through compensatory measures to local and regional self-government units to ultimately reduce income tax rates for municipalities, cities and counties themselves without significant revenue losses in their budgets. Here I must mention the funds that the government has begun to allocate for the funding programme for local infrastructure projects, rural development and the promotion of entrepreneurship and crafts in areas that are permanently populated by members of national minorities and our expectations are that they are also increased in order to create assumptions for a more rapid recovery, but also for a return. It is good that agricultural needs in these areas have been recognised, so there has been an increase in the resources for the CAPs since there have also been a significant number of small farmers who want to increase the livestock stock, production, purchase the machinery without which they are today powerless and remain or remain in rural areas. We note that the funds allocated to entrepreneurs and craftsmen in areas populated by national minorities in the Ministry of Economy could not be spent as planned, but therefore we expect to increase the budget for the following year. The other day, a colleague of Jeckov here spoke about the problem of housing former tenant rights holders and the purchase of apartments for which funds were also increased but not enough for real needs, and buildings owned by the Republic of Croatia, for example. The ones in Gračac are crying for restoration. The electrification of return areas finally started, the works were carried out in Lica in the area of Donji Lapc, Misljljenović and Busevic, Gospić, Divoselo, Vedro Polje, Gornji Karin, Majerovec near Serbs while technical documentation was being prepared in the towns of Sisak-Moslavina County and we expect the beginning of the work. When it comes to waterways and roads in assisted areas, we believe that extra budget users in this first row of Croatian water and Croatian roads need to increase the resources for the construction of project documentation and reconstruction of the construction of them. The efforts of all of us must be dedicated and focused on development, demographic restoration and a better common future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11011	Thank you, too. You have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Bulj, I remind you you have two reminders that you remember that.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11012	I didn't hear you. What did you say?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11013	All right, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11014	What did you say?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11015	You have two warnings from before, please go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11016	How do you know I have two?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11017	Yes, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11018	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, I am pleased that you were instructed by the secretary on time and thoroughly, and when it comes to the case of other parliamentary deputies, then nothing. Dear colleagues, please give me back my time. Dear colleagues, you have injured Article 238, because your party did not accept my amendment as regards the Knin General and Veteran Hospital of 5 million kuna, and is also the owner of the Sibenik-Knin County, and you were a parish and that hospital was destroyed by your concern for the SDSS and your coalition partner HDZ in Sibenik-Knin County. And I'm sorry that your party didn't accept that amendment in this budget where you're now crying, yawning about the Knin hospital. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11019	Thank you very much. I let you go to the end, Article 238 doesn't speak of such things, and unfortunately I have to give you a third warning while taking away words because it's not provided for in Article 238, and I think it will offend people if I read it for the 10th time.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11020	So ten times today, and yesterday they were saying some, they got 10 warnings, and you're giving me one warning. First I got one warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11021	Three, two before.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11022	I got one warning this morning, but you can't take it away from me...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11023	Let's move on, I think I'm, you can check it out.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11024	...but you can't take me away like this, I can check, of course I can.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11025	You can check it out.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11026	I got one warning and that's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11027	You've received two warnings.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11028	What other one?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11029	You've received two warnings.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11030	One warning he gets himself.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11031	Two.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11032	Were you there?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11033	Let's move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11034	Is that what this secretary told you?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11035	You can check it out.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11036	You can't take my word for it, hello.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11037	Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11038	Why are you taking my word?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11039	Mr. Bulj, there's one more thing with your behavior you're stepping away from the general rules of conduct in the assembly and disrespecting or insulting the president or other representatives, please don't.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11040	You took my word.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11041	Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11042	You took my word.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11043	Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11044	Well, you got 12 votes, you're here in the assembly, I got 11,000 votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11045	Excuse me, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11046	Because I gave you a breach of the Rules of Procedure, you took away my word that I did, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11047	Come on, please, the triba would be electoral law, if it were electoral law, you wouldn't have come down at all. Please leave the session, five minutes' break and leave the session. Thank you. Mr. Troscott and then Mr. Petrov will represent, will speak on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists. Mr. Troscott first, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11049	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, respected MPs and representatives of the Croatian Parliament and citizens of the Republic of Croatia who look at us through the screen. As for today's budget rebalancing topic, I would sort of narrow this analysis down to three main points, three main messages that you would like to send here on behalf of the MOST Club. The first message I would like to send is actually the macroeconomic environment that has been given to us and from which certain macroeconomic, budgetary and financial perspectives and projections have been made. It is not clear on why the Government of the Republic of Croatia has been projecting macroeconomicly from a one-digit GDP decline, given that the Commission has come out today and that the Commission's report differs from what it has given, has been given by the Government of the Republic of Croatia or the Ministry, and certain economic institutes in the Republic of Croatia predict even a two-digit GDP decline. So the question arises, on the basis of which unknowns and on the basis of which parameters are the projections of a one-digit GDP drop, if we have, for example, a shortened working time that will certainly affect economic activity, if we have on the other hand, the difficult situation for our companies who have shown their dissatisfaction with the strikes on Rijeka and on the Primorje, if we will have on the other hand the tasks that will have an impact on consumption, and the consumption we have seen for ourselves that the largest part of our GDP, or should be in developed economies, and on the other hand we have a forecast of 5.3 billion Croatian kunas of non-intentionary cash credits that will be unpaid and unpaid, and this will certainly be determined by weight, which may even be due to the Croatian Government's budget. If it's going to be a two-digit, two-digit drop in GDP, so this projection that the government has today said or showed, it's only going to be possible if we continue with maybe some kind of tourism, so maybe it's going to be, some ski resort that the mayor knew how to do or maybe make a jumper from Sljemen to Mark Square, Mark Square, I don't know, but on the other hand, we really need to coordinate all those projections that were given on three sides, now we don't know which one we can track. Furthermore, the second point I would like to touch here, I think that this budget rebalance, that we could show a lot more gratitude for the sacrifice of our health and not health care professionals who have proved to be heroes in this entire Covid crisis. We could show it to them, for example, through some sort of compensation, through certain bonuses that... We pay them off as grateful that every day they look death in the eye, which every day they see respiratory problems, intense tears, heavy coughs and are exposed to themselves, and their entire family, Covid, to whom we bear witness. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And it is not that the money is missing, for example the Croatian budget financed two million kunas last year the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and everyone wonders why, and this Croatian Chamber of Commerce spent the same money on the reports of the review, so on flyers, bags and gold catalogues, those 2 million kunas or 3.5 stakes in 2018 we were able to give to our doctors, our nurses and other employees who struggle daily for our patients who were killed. Not to say the benefits of the budget towards the freeway concessionaries, mostly Y and Macelj, if once Macelj, Y-on the pardon, paid 114 million advances of kuna, if according to the state audit it will never be returned, then the Croatian budget is suspended. If 3,5 billion kuna was paid out of that same Croatian budget at the end of 2018, which means that this amount has increased further, so for a financial contribution to Y-one that is credited free of charge, we may have been able to pay the debt to large-scale drugs today, and then the question is why it is appropriate for such concessionaries where the budget of the Republic of Croatia will never, according to the audit report, charge concession fees, and this violates the European right to grant such concessions to concessionaries in the Republic of Croatia. There is money in the Republic of Croatia and very much, while on the one hand we have Don Corleon in Sicily who may be sitting in southern Italy and drinking lemoncello and smoking Cubans, on the other hand it is confirmed, so through the Republic of Croatia is officially laundering Italian tipology money, which is a serious problem, especially if we are preparing for the euro area, so as many billions of euros have passed, billions of euros and kuna through the Croatian financial system, in order to finance who knows which dirty shops from, mostly from Italy. Maybe we could pay off the money and the debt that went through the Croatian financial system. And the third point I'd like to touch is what I'd really like our finance minister to answer, do we maybe go to the fiscal union? So we were being prepared for the euro zone, so for that monetary union and that... He is constantly speaking through messages, but does this mean a fiscal union?, and this is read from the following, so if 37% of all the money we have received is going to have to finance green policies and a certain percentage of digitisation, Europe will not long-term finance from debt, which means that in very, very short time, even in the medium, so for these European Union budget expenditures, so to set budget revenues in terms of the eco and digital taxes that Croatian citizens have never approved, and will only suddenly, on their still 5,000,00 kuna budget, suddenly sit and digital taxes that have never been approved, such as this debt that the European Union has never done without the approval of local parliaments and then raises the question in the spirit of new sovereignty that we are talking about here in parliament, has given, indeed, what about freedom and sovereignty of our Croatian citizens who have never approved such taxes? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11050	Here you go, Mr. Petrov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11051	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs. So I asked a question this morning that I didn't honestly get a good answer, except that I saw that the Prime Minister was a little bold, I ran, I don't see why I didn't insult at a personal level, even though I see that the Prime Minister, but also all other people, when they don't have answers, then they start talking at that level, after that they use physical force, I hope it won't come to that. Very clearly and I simply asked if you are not providing accurate information for the initial interpretation of the subject, why discuss it all day? If the estimates that you are giving today are going to be a decline in GDP or that GDP is not correct and today you are being refuted by the commission, and you are not opening up a new tourist centre by the end of the year, what do you expect to be? What is a serious, mature, responsible state doing at that time? Is the mature responsible state looking at how to cut costs, reallocate funds, give the economy or do what you did today? The budget we had left behind plus we added a little bit of what we have from the crisis due to the epidemic, we're going to borrow some money. Honestly, at this level, doing finance, it's to you, don't be angry because I have no intention of insulting you, but I have to say it, the level of a high school kid. High school says I have as much money as I have, when I need to spend what I don't have, it doesn't matter if I come back, someone after me will come back, Mom and Dad will come back. He doesn't think too long-term. Now, that's what I see the problem with this, but I don't mind if you're just trying to fool us, you might be able to accept it somehow, but I'm the problem if you believe what you told us today. If you've fooled yourself because you need long term, people have given you confidence for the next 4 years, you need to run the country, if you believe what you've told us today. One thing is not clear to me even though today it is about budget rebalancing, you have also instructed today, in the parliamentary procedure you will refer a new tax reform. Have you told people who are currently in the worst financial position, how good it will bring them, and how good will it bring to those who have high wages? And you have a way, and we have suggested how you can help those who are outside of tax scissors, who have the lowest salary, give fixed amounts for children, a fair system and you will not have any problems and people will not leave Croatia And you can do it. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]] That's what a brave, brave government does. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11052	Thank you very much. Mrs. Devereaux. Vesna Nadj will begin with individual discussions and will have his own personal discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11053	Dear Vice-President HS, Honored Ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs and representatives of HS. Before us is the rebalancing of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2020. on page 741. This is the rebalance of the budget on the situation of the pandemic Covid-19, and in the City of Zagreb also on the conditions after a devastating earthquake when they are at the door of the winter period, and the reconstruction of the house is in the phase of the first programme of measures to rebuild buildings damaged by the earthquake. In a situation where the government expects a deficit in the state budget of €24.8 billion or 6.7% of GDP, while the general government's deficit of €29.5 billion or 8% of GDP is expected to be 87.3% of GDP rightly expected by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to show a vision in solving the problem, strategic thinking and determination to reduce all unnecessary expenditures and all budgetary resources aimed at projects aimed at preserving the health of citizens, their social security, and at the function of developing the economy in order to get out of the crisis as quickly as possible. However, none of these 741 pages show any of them. Only a bureaucratic reduction or increase in individual positions is seen. Why is that? Because structural reforms are missing, because a populist policy is being conducted for the benefit of certain groups in society, which are expected to be re-supported in the elections first in the local one, which will be held in May next year, as well as in the next parliamentary ones. And that is why Minister Maric, who has established restrictions on individual resolutions and has asked that expenditure cuts could not have been made better budget rebalances because this is an administrative professional rebalancing that will not change the structure of income and expenditure and have strategic definitions. If it had decided to implement a real reform of the local administration, then Minister Malenica would have had his hands cut off to reduce the number of current 428 municipalities, 128 cities and 20 counties, not only to abolish deputy mayors, mayors and mayors. No one doubts that these officials are going to get caught up in some frontal and second high-paying, well-paid places. The need for judicial reform is also constantly being discussed, and the situation in the judiciary seems to be getting worse and worse, court proceedings take years, sometimes decades, land books are not in line with the land disaster and the real property situation, which makes investment impossible. If there were no EU funds we expect to withdraw funds from, there would be no chance of getting out of this crisis after the pandemic. But at the same time, they are not the funds that will self-inflicted into the budget from the European Funds. Someone has to design EU projects and these projects must be, they must be, they must be controlled in design and implementation. And we wonder if this budget rebalance shows that administrative capacity is being strengthened to withdraw funds from the EU funds? At the position of the Ministry of Regional Development and EU Funds, the position of staff expenditure is reduced by 6 million 750 thousand kuna. Thus, only at the position of the Operational Programme of Competitiveness and Cohesion from 2014 to 2020 is the position of expenditure for employees reduced by a million and 122 thousand and 600 kuna. When it is known that our administrative capacities by the ministries are insufficient to withdraw funds from EU funds and that we have an outflow of experts to design and implement projects in the private sector from public administration due to lower salaries in public administration, how will we keep experts in public administration and on EU projects? Then we'll pay those same experts through public procurement through private consulting firms really irrationally. Finally, is it not time for the burden of this crisis to be borne by those who are above average income, but still do not pay their tax obligations? How can it happen that Nadan Vidosevic still owes more than 13 million kuna, while a certain Mirko Orapić has as much as 46 million tax debts? Don't you think there's an early alarm in the IRS somewhere that doesn't allow tax debt to grow that way? I doubt they'd let a cheese and cream salesman in Dolco grow that much tax debt. As important as it is to spend the budgets rationally, it is so important to collect them and not only from European funds, but also from citizens who obviously did not touch the crisis because they took from the state and did not pay their tax obligations. It's time for a change, and if this direction continues, we're not getting it right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11054	Thank you too, Mrs. Nadj. Mrs. Mirela Ahmetovic will have her debate now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11055	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Minister, gentlemen of the Ministry. The budget rebalance shows a 25 billion kuna budget gap and it is now seen that the government has done nothing in the previous four years. It is evident that all their praises about the surplus budget are actually an empty story or that this surplus was created not because our economy was booming, but because all the projects that were planned were not successful, so the expenditure remained at a lower level. But therefore, very successfully from Croatian citizens collected all the commitments they could collect, and this is a surplus that the government boasted about and let's stop lying. It didn't come down to 25 billion because of the crown. Like three months ago, he was gone, and before the crown, billions of debts were in health care. The SDP managed to partially resuscitate the debt by 2015, but then the bat takes over HDZ's government and the debt returns to the same level again, and new debts arise in parallel. Doctors who depend on the lives of people are not paid for their work but are paid management contracts in public enterprises. Did you predict the final payment of overtime to the doctors? You're not. You've increased your deficit in local self-government units. We can talk about the crown crisis. It'd be easier. However, local self-government units did not have income from income tax at expected levels. In particular, in my unit of local self-government in the Omistry, total revenues fell about 10% of the budget. At the same time, the fall did not follow the reform of local self-government. She was followed by an increase in tasks for local self-government. And not only that, they are accompanied by the racketeering of the Ministry of Justice and the State Geodetic Administration, which is valued by the suspension of the restoration of land books if local self-government does not pay extras to their employees. Citizens pay for something they already paid for, so how many times do these same citizens have to pay for the same thing? What are the debts of public companies in Croatia Airlines, Croatian Railways, Plinacro? You've reduced the economic downturn from 9.10 to 8%, and that's only because the tourist season was better than you expected. Are you telling me it's your fault? It'll be because of the famous cro-cards. Remind us how much money you threw at that comedy. What did you do for occasional carriers? Nothing. Slovenia has provided its own grants for the financing of machinery and equipment. What have we done? Turn your head. Done. In the wake of the biggest economic crisis, you've let the citizens go, even those who owe for the profession. While there were 100 infected were supposed to go to elections, so you've put the populists off, and today, when 2,000 of them are infected, you're sitting on top of them. Yes, debts must be paid absolutely but you do not pay them and threaten the delivery of medicines to patients. But you've increased the cost of developing the energy system. I call on you to call this item in the budget the development of the Hungarian energy system. So you pay 17 million kuna to the INA financial adviser Mol Hungary, i.e. the item is increased by 2.5 million kuna or 17% to advise you to teach Croatian oil to the Hungarians to help work with their refineries and to shut down our refineries. Bravo. Thank you for the financial advice the citizens paid out of 17 million kuna. So there's no confusion, we pay for special representation and counselling for the INA or Mol another $11.5 million, but that's okay. And finally, it'll all work out. Citizens need not worry about the 25 billion deficit, not the public debt of 330 billion, nor the breakdown of the health system, nor the performance, nor the closure of Croatian refineries, nor the 20,000 jobs of occasional carriers. Everything will be settled with money from European funds. No colleagues and colleagues. Let's stop underestimating the intelligence of Croatian citizens. We don't have European funds in our bags, we don't even have it in the register at Minister Maric's. In order to withdraw these funds at all, we need to bring in a national development strategy, we need to bring in a recovery plan, we need to prepare EU projects, these projects have to be approved, they have to be investment or reform, and if there are abuses, we will pay for the penals as well. Finally, by respecting health and economic circumstances, a serious budget rebalancing should be provided under 1. to provide additional funds and raise salaries or at least to pay overtime to doctors and medical staff. Ensuring additional funding for social assistance to a population not covered by regular social programmes, which you have reduced, and among them will be those from the contigence of those implemented. Ensure funds for the engagement of all who have experience and knowledge of the withdrawal of EU funds because the existing state apparatus is not capable of doing so. The deadline is short, especially for so-called. The crown fund. And finally increase the level of non-taxable income from 4 to 5,000, to 5,000 to boost personal consumption as the biggest generator of Croatian GDP. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11056	Thank you, too. Mrs. Katica Glamuzina, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11057	A colleague of Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11058	I'm sorry, I didn't see. I didn't see it. Here you go. Here's a replica. I didn't see it. There you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11059	You'll get used to it. Everything's fine. My colleague Ahmetovic, at the very beginning, is replicating. You said the government was successful from the citizens. You made a bit of a mistake because there are large amounts of taxpayers' debts that happened to have gone out of date after six years. with Mr Vidosevic, 13 million kuna with former HDZ representative Lucic and his wife, over one million kuna, has not been successfully collected.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11060	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11061	There have been successful gatherings through legislation and imposed on Croatian citizens at the time of this government, but what would certainly contribute to strengthening our budget and our economy is a final calculation of corruption, and I trust in large and pompous announcements to amend the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government, where it intends to introduce so-called. transparency of spending public money. Well, I guess the guarantee of that transparency will be Mr. Dario Hrebak, I expect that transparency which has been successfully introduced in both Bjelovar and Omislj. I hope it's not gonna be modeled at the Treasury because it's definitely not transparency.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11062	There's more replicas? There is. Yeah, I haven't seen Mrs. Grozdana Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11063	My colleagues, you mentioned the payment of overtime, and you forgot exactly in health that your government has suspended the payment of overtime of doctors and nurses and that these lawsuits have arrived for payment of this government.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11064	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11065	I haven't forgotten Mrs. Peric, but I haven't forgotten the debts left by your HDZ government under your Ćaæ's patronage, so the SDP government had to first resuscitate everything possible and impossible that Ćaća left to the SDP government in order to then reduce the debt in health until 2015. But here comes the HDZ and then all these debts accumulated again and now he's acting crazy like doctors aren't doing their job, they're not being paid overtime, even Minister Beros calls doctors personal medicine, etc., etc., etc. So, no, I haven't forgotten anything, and I'm going to remind you of that every chance I get.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11066	And finally Mr. Zeljko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11067	Your Honor, you're also the Chief of the Omiscillation, I'd like to ask you one piece of information if you happen to know. In fact, you know for a fact that no national strategy has been adopted, no strategies have been adopted for neither the county nor the municipalities, we know that without these strategies there are no programmes, no projects and no withdrawals of money from the eu funds. Can you please tell me, given that you're the Commissioner, whether you know it or if something seems to have taken some time to bring in all these strategies and to move into withdrawing money? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11068	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11069	My strategy for the development of my municipality was adopted within the time limit prescribed by law and it covers four years of periods, and as far as I can see, the National Strategy for the Development of the Republic of Croatia crosses and legal deadlines, namely it was already due in the 3rd month. I hope it's over by the end of this year at the last minute. But let us not be surprised later why we are not withdrawing EU funds if it is not such as colleagues from HDZ and colleagues from the ministries justified the delay in withdrawing funds by means of a godless European procedure. No, we are slow and we are inefficient in the withdrawal of European funds and therefore our citizens have no more quality life than they can have.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11070	Thank you very much. You don't have any more replicas if I get it right. Thank you. Mrs. Mariana Petir will now speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11071	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister with his associates. My colleagues and colleagues. The rebalancing at this point leads to a budget deficit of 8% of GDP or almost 30 billion kuna, including 8 billion kuna paid and what will be paid to help the economy. 2.5 billion kuna refers to tax write-offs, but an even greater amount generates a decline in economic activity reflected in the decline in income. Unlike the measures to help the economy put into operation in March, which were primarily financed from domestic sources and savings at the level of existing budgets, the current aid measures should be financed primarily from European funds. For next year, the Recovery Plan includes a document that will include reforms and investments, and should be revived by the end of next year while advances from European funds can also be used at the same time. The biggest focus of this rebalancing is on the economy and the preservation of jobs and on the health care system. Although we have in some ways lost everyone because of covid and recession, we can still say that the budget is fully put into the service of preserving health, human life and jobs in the economy and the state administration. In all of this, even farmers who produce food for us and are real guardians of Croatian rural space are not forgotten. The budget rebalancing planned to increase €270 million for the Ministry of Agriculture, and most of that increase concerns the national share in co-financing of measures under the Rural Development Programme of the Republic of Croatia and 81 million kuna. The rebalancing provides additional funding for other small-value state support, and will provide funding for the closure of the three-year programme of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to support the livestock sector as well as a full payment of aid to small farmers to deal with the consequences of the covid-19 crisis. With a positive assessment and proposed increase in funding on the items promotion of agriculture and rural development, the School Honey Day scheme and the project "Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem". Part of the project planned has been reduced because some projects have been implemented or are already in the final phase. The national wine envelope was used at 95%, and part of the promotional measures this year due to the current Covid crisis situation was planned in the following year, resulting in a reduction of funds. The reduction of resources in the fisheries operational programme is the result of a series of audits and controls which have affected slower spending than planned. In addition to the above, this operational programme has been last accredited, and the assessment by the Ministry of Agriculture that all planned activities will be completed in early 2021 with a debt write-off position, according to my information, the Ministry of Agriculture is obliged to return to the EU the 11 million kuna budget for errors made in the management and control system from 2012-2015. Given that we will have 4.5 billion euros for agriculture and rural development in the next EU budget period, we need to ensure a more efficient and fair distribution of these funds in order to obtain added value from those investments. A part of the problem in agriculture can be solved without much money. In addition to a better organisation, a stronger association of manufacturers, the integration of primary production and processing, stronger food supply chain controls, in order to combat fraud and unfair commercial practices, inspection controls on what comes from imports, are placed on the market. We know that agriculture is extremely important for the supply of food, and no one is doubting that we need to make every effort to achieve self-sufficiency in food production as much as possible. In this way we protect the interests of the state, our interests as a consumer, as well as the interests of farmers because we allow them to make a decent profit, to live honestly and to educate their children. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11072	Thank you, too. - Mrs. Crescent. Barbara Antoliæ Vupra will now. And it's got replicas. Excuse me. Yes, Mr. Brumnic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11073	... /Intruder: microphone, microphone./ [[Specially enabled.]] Comrade Petir, I am very interested in where you found information on helping the Croatian economy from domestic sources during the crown crisis when the funds given to help pay for jobs are less than the assistance we received from the EU to prevent the crown of the crisis. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, I'd like to ask you an answer to that. By the way, I see you've been doing a lot of farming, and I'm glad to see you're taking care of the farmers. I don't remember this government doing any action, or paying for one aid at the beginning when blocked markets were blocked, but leaving those farmers, convicted, would even say to the mercy of a market that didn't exist. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11074	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11075	Thank you, pal, for your rep. So far, it has been paid to help economies over 8 billion kuna with this package of tax laws, which are now addressed in accordance with the parliamentary procedure and additional discharges and reliefs, this aid will climb to more than 10 billion kunas. When it comes to agriculture, yes, I have been worrying for years about agriculture and farmers and I am trying to interest others in this subject because I find it extremely important to support our farmers. The government, as in other segments, has introduced in the agricultural segment the intervention Covid measures to which farmers were most damaged. As far as they have information, these payments are under way.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11076	Thank you. There are no other replicas. - Mrs. Crescent. Now, here you go. She's gone. He's losing his right. Mr. Branko Bacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11077	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, the esteemed Vice President, the esteemed colleagues and colleagues. I was going to say a little bit more about the rebalancing of the budget itself, which I'm going to talk about clearly, but I'm just going to say a little bit, and I'm going to encourage it with this lively debate of Mrs. Ahmetovic, remember exactly the budget rebalance, the budget and the work of the SDP government she had previously praised. As I was also a parliamentary representative at the time, so I remember, I remember you are a very successful government that was rated as the 5th worst government in the world in the company of Mauritania, Chad, Angola and in this pleasant society, the government lost the elections in 2015, which was clearly expected. Speaking of which, Ahmetovic Health and Health Rehabilitation by the then Government, I would remind you that in 2012 when it was made after the elections, when the state budget was made in March, it seems to me that in 2012, then the SDP government reduced indeed the contribution to health insurance by 2%, while at the same time increasing the VAT rate from 23% to 25%. And it was like dispensing entrepreneurs who wouldn't have to pay so high, according to their position to contribute to health insurance, but very quickly, it seems to me even on the rebalancing that year, or already on the next budget they kept an orderly VAT rate of 25%, but immediately they returned the same rate they had reduced to 13 to 15%, rehabilitated health insurance, rescheduled the costs and debts in health care, which were again raised to about 5 billion kuna by the end of the term. So the lady was not at the assembly at the time dealing with local politics now deals with national policy, but I think it's worth reminding her how things were then. In the end, if it were so successful, we would not have lost twice in the order of the parliamentary elections in 2015 and 2016 when they were already, not to say what was the situation in the agricultural sector and with the Minister of Agriculture then, that they were practically ahead of the loss of funds from the entire financial envelope due to the unemployment and miswork of governments, I would not have given a more difficult assessment. Yeah, let me get back to the budget rebalancing for a while. So, to state that this minus this deficit of the state budget has nothing to do with the crown should really live in another world, in another world, in another galaxy, and not in this world and in the Republic of Croatia when we know that for 3 years we've recorded the surplus of the state budget, we've managed finances neatly. At the time of the SDP, we have reduced our credit rating to the level of garbage now he is in this crisis and with this deficit of the state budget, which is confirmed by all credit agencies, returned and at the level of the investment rating. At the same time, struggling with the biggest crisis that has ever been in our power, we can and can deal with all these difficulties and so far it has been unmarked that every 3 workers in Croatia who work in the private sector receive compensation for, and support for the job from the state budget. 607,000 Croatian workers receive support for preservation, for their place of work to preserve it, and this support is aimed at 107,000 employers and somewhere over 8.8 billion kuna. So that's what this rebalancing recognizes, and that's what this rebalancing carries. Since I don't have much time yet, I'd like to thank the minister, he left and thanked the ministry. I have read and congratulated the Government as an islander, and I have been contacted by a large number of entrepreneurs in the Croatian islands, and we have returned to the position of the Ministry of Regional Development to support island employers for 9 million kuna, and this support is otherwise defined by the Island Act in a way that each island employer who has a seat on the island for each worker who has a residence on the island is singled out one salary per year at the level of monthly salary for developed islands, and half of the salary for the developed, and the entire salary for undeveloped islands. Well, here we go. Thank you. This measure has been recognised and returned to island employers. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11078	Thank you. Stay here, stay here. You have more replicas. The first line has Mr. Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11079	Thank you very much, Vice President. You have rightly warned colleagues from the SDP about the time when they had responsibility for the state and everything they did. It also means reducing the contribution and returning, so raising VAT, cutting wages, borrowing by almost 100 billion of this public debt more and of course they continued in such a rhythm, and they are not surprised that they have lost the elections three times in a row and continue on. Destroy whatever you see on the road, it's just their policy, and we need to understand them. They are against this budget, they are against providing funds to healthcare professionals, they are against ensuring the normal functioning of the system, they are opposed to building these infrastructure projects, they are bothered by all this, they are all irrelevant. We simply live with such people, we have to understand them because they say democracy allows everything and such opinions, only the question of what kind of messages they send to Croatian citizens is. That if we're really in a state of emergency, as they say, we should tear it all down. What do we do after that? That's the question.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11080	Thank you very much, time. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11081	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Boric, you are only part of what you stated, so I will complete you more. In April 2012, despite HER's consent that the electricity price could be increased by 8% in Croatia, electricity prices increased by 25%. Which was a blow to the standard of Croatian citizens should not even be described, which is at an annual level of around 2.5 billion kuna. So that's one, pretty big, big increase. There was an increase in the price of gas, if you remember. At that time, Mrs Ahmetovic also said the government was doing it neatly, and the public debt increased by 70 billion kuna. They inherited a public debt in Croatia at 60 percentage points, and when they left in 2015 it was almost 80%. Therefore, when it comes to the state budget, the rebalancing of the state budget was not my intention, and I had no intention of going back to the past, in history, but when I sit here and listen to remarks about this kind of budget rebalancing, in these conditions. With this kind of financial consolidation, then we have to answer that. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11082	Thank you, thank you very much, time. Mr. Brumnic's injuries to the Rules of Procedure You can't give up the replica now. [[Intruder: No, not replica.]] And Mr. Pavić was a violation of the Rules of Procedure, I'm sorry. Mr. Pavić, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11083	The Honorable Vice President in violation of the Rules of Procedure, Article 238, this has nothing to do with the subject. What does it have to do with this budget rebalance that happened five years ago? Somebody explain it to me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11084	There was a replica here.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11085	Well, you've said yours and we're moving on now. Let's move on. Uh, now it's Mr., Mrs. Jelkovac's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11086	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear fellow Bačić, that you have well noticed how particularly fellow Ahmetovic in his debate is very dissatisfied with this rebalancing, and he thinks that as far as the SDP government is concerned, they have done very well, and in these conditions in which we live today, Covid of the crisis after the earthquake in Zagreb and the surrounding area we offer such rebalancing and it is not good, and let us remember that we have also agreed with the budget and the rebalancing and realisation of funds and European funds much more than their government has done, let us also remember how much wages and pensions have grown in the past term and all of this thanks to the work of this government that continues and announces for this mandate, and we also see through the tax reform that has been achieved so far, and is also announced in the next tax reform.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11087	Thank you very much. Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11088	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Jelkovac, that this budget rebalance and the budget that we are going to discuss next week are talking about the work of this government, and I was saying it yesterday when I spoke on behalf of the club about the annual report by the Government of the Republic of Croatia where I stated that all of this we can and what we are doing and such massive support to Croatian business-preservers and numerous government interventions throughout that time. I would also remind you of the intervention in shipbuilding, see what happens with "3. In May," they talk about how under these conditions the government can also pay those commitments that come from previous calls, remember those 4.5 billion that the "Oiler" debt for guarantees given by the Government of the Republic of Croatia were still able to make a consolidated budget, have a budget surplus and this way prepare... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11089	Thank you. Time. She's a colleague of the vice president of the Voice.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11090	Comrade Bačić, you in HDZ will become a truly measured unit of shamelessness. You have found your colleague Ahmetovic to explain the square of the circle and accuse of something of Zoran Milanovic's government. You left us a burnt, robbed and devastated country, 10% deficit, 8% in debt. We cleaned up after you and instead of apologizing not to us but to the Croatian public for everything you've done by 2015, you dare accuse someone. Otherwise for your information, Croatia officially exited the recession in 2015 after 6 years and pulled it out precisely this Zoran Milanovic and left you with a positive rate of GDP growth of 2.4% on whose wings you could breathe and do something these few years. Shame on you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11091	Thank you. Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11092	Mr. Vice President, this at least required a reminder to the Vice President at home. Here's when we hear this from the vice president's mouth I really find it strange that we can support a parliamentary representative like this as vice president of the house. So, thank you for your comment, Madam Vice President. We're in charge of that, but behind us are projects. You're going to Zadar today, when you're going to Split and I'm going to Dubrovnik on the highway. The great debt, Mrs. Voter, I let you go. Our creation of public debt has its reflection on investment. And you're in charge of twice as many miles of highways, 70 billion kuna, and you've stopped everything. Investment in non-financial assets during the SDP government was at least in Croatia's history, so no government has invested less in investments, which is the government which is in charge of 70 billion kuna at the same time, and you want us to be ashamed. You might want to think about what you're saying.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11093	Time, thank you. Mrs. Anamaria Blažević replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11094	Thank you very much. Here in this issue you have been in the local government for a long time, you know how many local budgets and any tax reform that has brought to local budgets, but here is the same speech, we now have compensatory measures, we have fiscal balances, we have also in projections a large amount planned for fiscal balances and for the co-financing fund that I was talking about today 500,000 kunas in 2015 was paid from the Fund for Co-financing in Rebalance is now €119.4 million. As for 2015, when we mention it, 66.7 million kuna is total paid out of eu funds, total, so I think it says enough about this rebalancing today.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11095	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11096	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Members Blažević, that this is the European funds are a special story of their agreement and payment from the agreed funds, it is for not to compare. But when you talk about income or about the financing of units of local self-government or perhaps better told by compensations to reduce income tax thus reducing one of the basic incomes of the local self-government unit, not once in four rounds of tax reform we did not reduce income tax by reducing the income of local self-government units on the other hand did not respond to the compensatory measure. So, at that time on the one hand, we've decentralized a number of government affairs, so if you want this last one where we've brought down the state administration's affairs to the level of county administrations, we've also had fiscal decentralisation. And that's why all our budget rebalancing and budgets always had the support of the alliance of cities and municipalities in Croatia because they knew that they did not lose their basic assets.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11097	Time, thank you. Mrs. Maximchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11098	Thank you very much, Vice President. In your debate, you also said that after three years of surpluses, of course it is Croatian, but the world economy has hit extraordinary circumstances, the health system was to be maintained, jobs preserved, but we see that social care benefits have been made in the amount of 2.6 billion kuna. They continue to pay their personal disability, aid allowance and minimum fees, child allowance, maternity leave, and we see only a 50.5 million kuna increase in this item compared to last year. We also see that we have an increase of 260 million kuna on the agricultural item, so it's almost as much as last year, but here in the debates we can only hear negatively and badly.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11099	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11100	Your Honor, Mr. President. Dear colleagues Maximchuk, this second budget rebalance for 2020. The main thing that it is saying is how and how this one is, and then 13th on the day of the Republic of Croatia, when it has drawn up the draft budget for 2020. which today, I say, we are discussing in a second rebalancing is the best indicator of the government's work. He was consolidated, so we were already back then, we had, on that budget, third time I say, a balanced budget without a government budget deficit. So this deficit that we're talking about today from the state budget of about 25 and a half billion kuna is the only result of why we couldn't even assume when we brought it in and that's, and that's the best indicator of how we worked and how we worked. And yesterday I said, now I'm going to repeat, precisely because of this government's work and the government's orderly financial business, financial consolidation for me today for interest on, on the debts we've raised only for 15 billion kunas we issued to the bond in February we pay 100 million EUR [[Intruder: Thank you]] less interest. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11101	Now he really is Mr. Brumnic's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11102	Dear colleague Bačić, I would not like to recall the past if I were you, what you have left this country in an amannet, or what your governments have done so far. Leaving Zoran Milanovic to clean up after you, you and Sanader, that's something I think is hard for anyone to clean up. So as far as that goes, I think the debate is groundless. And as for when the country's largest deficit is right now. And the deficit your minister presented is not the one that's the thing. Now the question is asked, and that question should be asked there on the right hand side of the pay phone when you vote, and you vote to get cheap loans. What's next after that? We had this company that had these, like, healthy finances. And she was selling those healthy lovers in her day. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]] Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11103	Thank you. Here's the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11104	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Brumnic, we left you the country in 2011. which was a full member of the EU and we have completed these negotiations, the government has completed the negotiations, a government which you have inherited, which has lost the elections, but has left you a country which is a member of the EU, a member of NATO, and don't forget that the fact that we have become an EU member was the wind in the back of the government of Zoran Milanovic and the government of the SDP. That fact that we left the state. We are in very difficult conditions when very Europe has not managed to expand at the last minute of those negotiations and we have become a full member. But at the same time with such a leverage of the European Funds, you have additionally charged us with 20% of GDP and 60%, respectively. Public debt increased to 80% during the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11105	Thank you very much. No more replicas, no more replicas, thank you very much. Maybe someone malicious realized that there was a discussion about who was worse, and I realized that there was a discussion about who was better, so we can continue the debate. Mrs. Devereaux. Grozdana Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11106	Let's just remind ourselves once again what happened in this period, so right now when we look back at what was done, we now have 54 open competitions in the European Structural and Investment Funds and the value of these tenders is over 147 billion kuna. So, if it wasn't working and it didn't, then there wouldn't be this many competitions, or the value of these competitions. The colleagues also mentioned that this part of the assistance coming from the EU is increasing. So, in 2018, we had a realisation here, in 2019 over 14 billion, in the plan this year is increasing to 19 billion, and for further as you saw in the 2021 plan to 25 billion. So what was so far in the envelope of the multiannual financial framework that we had rights from 2014 to 2020 was EUR 10.7 billion, so they were increased in this envelope, and the increase would not have happened and happened if you did not use them, you do not negotiate, because Europe and all EU control mechanisms are very much monitoring what they are spending. But in addition, I would just like to point out that when colleagues say what has happened significantly and you're justifying everything from this pandemic. So is it possible for Europe and the EU to recognise that there is a decline in the economy by 7.5% or almost 7.5%, so developed countries, and we in these conditions, so we had a decline of up to 15% in this previous quarter and now what is planned to be 8%. If you look at what was happening and what the government had done at the right time, therefore recognising everything that was going to happen, that it would have to lock up the economy, that it could not live normally and work normally, that in these conditions, were actually two packages of measures that were to help the economy and entrepreneurs and citizens were for entrepreneurs with a 20% drop in traffic or later this April that was for a 50% drop in income. When in this way it actually helped over 600 thousand people, employees have safe incomes, then we can say that really many people don't understand what happened and what's happening and what's waiting for us at all, and everything that's created here in these, in this deficit that's planned by the end of the year, actually this certainty that everything can be financed and that everything can work no matter what happens, not just with us, but in the whole world. So once again, I would like to point out that precisely with these measures that have been taken, normal life has been made possible and is trying to use it to the fullest extent possible for the economy to recover and to target this very European asset to what will bring us a new value.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11107	Thank you very much, we have one replica of the respected representative Dalia Oreskovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11108	So in turn, I am listening to the replica of individual representatives from the HDZ ranks. I really don't understand how you're all not uncomfortable together. So you can't bring the full rebalancing down to measures taken for the purpose of dealing with the coronary crisis, nor can you say that anything in the Republic of Croatia currently works normally, nor can you claim that Croatian citizens and opposition do not see and understand what is happening. There is an extreme irresponsibility of the authorities in spending and the purpose of the amounts financed, whether from our budget, whether they withdraw from EU funds. As well as the number of procedures in which the EU commission is seeking to repay its funds, here is obviously the end of someone's private pockets, and as an eclectic example of something that should not have happened in Croatia, I will quote 2.5 million kuna of incentives paid to former Minister Tolusic. I wonder if this power is taking over. Anything to be inappropriately bad [[Thank you very much.]] I.D. rules? [[Intruder: Honored representative Peric, please]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11109	I don't think you understand what you're talking about because... What is happening is it has to find resources to cover certain costs, to pay salaries, contributions, in order to make health care work, so that all social benefits are paid, that both salaries and pensions are paid at the end of the line, without you seeing that there is a problem and that one economic operator cannot, for example, be paid. neither work nor pay wages nor pay contributions nor taxes, then I don't know where the state could finance it, if there are no sources that it will find in this way. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11110	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be the respected representative of Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11111	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Every financial plan or budget certainly requires a debate, especially in these times both at home and in the state, in local self-government, in the county and I think that, looking at the development of events from the very beginning of the year, the year itself, more or less, we are all in the second rebalancing and local self-government and county, here is the state itself. It's likely that some of the parties who wanted to reboot the state will be able to restart themselves, and they'll probably be rebalanced, so what's the basic task of the budget is that at the end of the year we're here, which is better to evaluate by the end of the year what's going to happen and to reconcile everything that's happened in the past, and maybe it couldn't have been affected. Clearly, to implement policies at all levels, from local self-government, to the county, to the state is the primary task of each budget and this state budget. What did he have in mind? He was tasked with combating this infection in this special year and itself, i.e. Coronavirus clearly ensures the implementation of government policies in several of the most important areas. And it's about discussing whether we're better or worse, but whether the government has ensured the implementation of these policies I think it clearly shows the rebalancing itself. Now. What is politics in this time of year? First of all, what everyone's talking about, every day they write the media, and we all think about it, every moment and every day, fighting the coronaryvirus. Did we secure enough funds? Yes, some may find it funny, of course, that those who are dealing with it bear a responsibility that is far greater than the opposition responsibility, i.e. being a representative in opposition, putting your finger in your ear and thinking out loud. It's simply not something that we shouldn't take this one into consideration in terms of whether we've given enough to ensure what we have in front of our eyes every day. I think we're very clear here. There's been a lot of shouting here when you're gonna pay your debts to the big drugstores. It's all a disaster, here, in the rebalancing of the resources to make up for the part. What does the opposition say? We're against it. We're against it, they don't care. But it doesn't matter. This is their ID for future behavior. As for the second task, which caused that coronary virus again, retain employment, jobs, help the economy. So far, we've heard, by the 10th month. 7 billion kuna paid, by the end of the year another billion in budget. They say, we are to preserve the economy, to preserve jobs, but we are against ensuring additional resources to help this because it is the task of the budget rather than help. Did we save our jobs? They say the insurance company has more than just the beginning of this epidemic itself. Ensuring salaries, pensions in the public sector and increased salaries and Christmas payments and everything that goes as material supplements and it is in the budget and it will be paid as has been paid so far. Ensure the realization of important LNG infrastructure projects, Pelješki bridge, numerous investments in environmental protection, roads, agglomerations etc. It's all in the budget, of course the opposition is against it. And when they get it or realize that we're functioning normally what needs to be done? It needs to be torn down. What's the task of the opposition? Take down everything, before you say it's a state of emergency. If we listen carefully, our colleagues say we're in a state of emergency. In a state of emergency, it is quite well to bring down first ministers, prime ministers and government, the possibility of both rebalancing and budgeting, destroying the entire system. It's a policy and a message sent by the opposition debate today. We take everything down, that's how we'll get better, that's how we stand for the improvement of this country. We heard that we were unfortunately witnessing an earthquake. That's where you can't predict. This opposition is predicted so that in this fight against them it is easy for us to do what we have done so far as the ruling majority, stand behind this policy and this budget, vote this and continue to work on the benefit of the citizens. And those who have problems with themselves, let them crash, break down the health system, and whatever they think they need to bring down. Several election cycles have shown that destroyers of everything and everything, clean from a whim or not a policy estate simply passes as SDP has passed in the last election, minus 25.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11112	Thank you very much. We have several replicas on your exhibit. First is the respected representative Matko Kuzmanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11113	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Representative Boric. When you talk about the collapse, I really don't know who you have sympathy for because of all the basic disasters that have hit our country and the crown crisis and the earthquake are not even close to how much the HDZ governments have done to our country. I know that you all have a big competition here who's going to be more loyal to the great leader, so from this pay phone here, you're talking, you're competing on each other who's going to praise the government's successes more. But this is not the time to brag about successes, this is the time for the state to be pulled out of the severe crisis it was in. We have partly found ourselves there because of the crown of the virus and earthquakes, but it is largely due to the bad decisions of the past that some today are sitting on the defendant's benches, and a large part of them are known from which ranks, or almost 90% of all the indictees in some corruption affairs, come from the same team.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11114	Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11115	Thank you very much. I just warned you that what you've been doing in the past few years has resulted in a minus 25 because your colleagues have done it before, let's just say one colleague Maras, Bauk, Bernardić and what I know is who you are, and you've been through the way you've been. That people don't trust HDZ governments, and I don't know who chooses in this country, so I don't know why they chose us if we're so bad, you understand. Don't say that the people are guilty, go away, so you don't stand well in that story, and there's not much logic for you. As far as the crash is concerned, because if you want to do what you announced, it's a demolition. So if you're not aware of what you're doing by not supporting budget rebalancing, it's your job, your problem because it contains what's important for Croatian citizens. If you tell me tomorrow that you're in favour of the health system functioning and not giving that same system the money that gives him this rebalancing, you're actually playing with people's fates. Because you think it's political? Just keep going.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11116	Thank you very much. The next replica is the respected MPs Sabine Vosovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11117	I would call it one of the opposition's jobs to upgrade, to try your upgrades, or to closely monitor the work of your ministers and to point out the failures, or where we think it's a bad job for us to talk about it at HSA. And that we are very often right to speak and have passed the mandate when we have been through requests for the impeachment of a number of ministers, we have not succeeded as an opposition, but these ministers have eventually been replaced or have had to leave the government. And I don't see any reason to challenge one of the working mechanisms of parliamentary representatives, which is to question the work of each of the ministers in the Government of the Republic of Croatia. It's not a newspaper invented by the SDP or started with us, nor will it end with us.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11118	Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11119	Thank you very much. I'm not defending you, I'm describing your policies. What you're going to do is you're allowed to do, what you're saying is that in the past 10 ministers have left, it's gone in your 10, so there's no problem with that. Some have threatened to end up in chains as much as I remember, no, so we didn't make big stories out of it because we thought we had to beat you with policies and in a way that offered citizens something more than destruction. You carry on, it's not that problem at all, just crash, you don't have to vote for this budget, we'll vote for it ourselves as always. You find some activity that you don't like and you say I won't do this, it's all okay, but that those who cut my salary to teachers like you are talking about whether today's okay to raise our salaries, pay bigger wages, so citizens don't have any problems right now, they'll quickly recognize who they are. And that story of yours if we're behind our leader, we're behind him because we chose him in the inside election and he's leading us. You every once in a while, every cycle you start over, every time you get a new one.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11120	Thank you very much. The next replica is respected MPs Dalia Oreskovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11121	Comrade Boric, your opposition did not bring down your good future and your chances and perspectives, it was done by your authority... I can, I wish you wouldn't interrupt me once, and don't disturb me whenever I answer the word in this assembly, you and the likes of you. [[I can't hear you well, you can do it a little harder.]] The worst are those Croatian regions almost never having any opposition or any other government other than HDZ, that's Lika, that's Slavonia. You have nothing to raise yourself to. The worst are those systems where you've been setting up your incompetent artificial personnel, the largest number of deaths in those nursing homes where your vacated people have been put past any competencies. The state of health, the situation in any key resort that depends on the quality of our citizens' lives, is just because your authority there has been overly involved in its fingers. And this opposition will, through arguments, give you information on how to make the system better. Therefore, respect the opposition and show little constructiveness They'll need our citizens if you don't. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11122	Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11123	My colleague Oreshković, I don't know which page you're in, whether you're still President of the Start, Party with a name and last name, whether you've chosen yourself in a living room or a cafe, I don't care at all, but I would like to know since it's all active. As far as the arts are concerned, I heard from the president of the state that he brought you here by hand, and I was a representative and I told you to choose Mrs. President of the Commission. We refused it that way and if you remember to choose, you were chosen without opposition, only with the hands of the SDP and that majority. And then you continued your political path. It was seen back then that you wanted to sit here on the other side, not on this side. And everything else you're talking about, let's say the homes for the elderly, here's a virus breach in the Primorje-Goran County whether HDZ will now seek Mayor Komadina's responsibility for this, whether we're going to discuss it as SDP has requested on another case or in Delnice or in some other homes. Don't play with these things just in such an easy way or with people's fates. Because you think it's a political opportun. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11124	Thank you, thank you, fellow Boric. Honorable representative Oreskovic has committed a violation of the Rules of Procedure. What's hurt?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11125	... So today and yesterday, you hurt Article 238(5), you're disdaining me personally, but that's a minor problem. [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]] how, how much is the fact that in this Croatian Parliament you are dead, cold and cold, you are extremly false? [[I'm hurt?]] You said yesterday that for the services I did as a lawyer for JANAF I charged 70,000 kuna, a invoice was publicly published in which something else was written. [[/Intruder: What lies?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11126	Thank you, thank you very much, well-respected MPs. It's abuse as you know yourself, this lawyer you are, you've read probably the Rules of Procedure at least I suppose, it's abuse of the institution's violation of the Rules of Procedure and I'm warning you. [[- How much was that? 69,900/]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11127	With all due respect, with all due respect, I have called for Article 238, paragraph 5, which speaks of the mutilation of a representative in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11128	You can't talk any further, please sit down. That way, if we have one more replica of the esteemed representative, Željko Pavić. ... [[Intruder: You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11129	Can you turn off the microphone? The Honorable Vice President of the Assembly, since Mr. Representative himself laughed at his words, I give up on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11130	Thank you very much, we appreciate this very much, and he gave up on the replica. He gave up this one. [[Intruder: And I wanted to commend him and Mr Brumnic because they were also in the assembly here and I think they were good opposition and that they will be in the next 11 years.]] The Honorable Representative, Bauk, has raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11131	Mr. Vice-President, I was waiting for you to react, Article 238, paragraph 5, Mr. Boric, in his opening statement describing the work of opposition MPs, I will quote: The finger in his ear and thinking out loud. I think it deserved your reaction to protect the integrity of the opposition deputies. After all, I remember Mr. Boric and you as opposition MPs, and quite certainly that I told you from the pay phone that you would be offended. So please don't give him any warning just oral warning to do this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11132	Comrade Bauk, you have been in this assembly too long to know that this God forbid you are, but now you will get a warning because you have abused the institution's breach of the Rules of Procedure. The individual debate will now be held by a respected representative named Brumnic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11133	The budget rebalance, the budget rebalancing that the prime minister called a sound budget, which shows how HDZ deals with this country is actually looking for a single warning from the minister. [[Intruder: I've turned you on now.]] He's asked to be told that solving the same problem in the same way is difficult to come up with a different solution, and the minister will probably understand what the problem is and how I think we're solving it here. And this budget is essentially self-deception, because when you look at what has been done in it, it is where those who will vote in it are deceived by those who should benefit from it. Where did that word of deception come from? When you listen to the Prime Minister, he tells you every time in his discussions what he does using a word or a few words too often. Both yesterday and today, in his discussions, he used the word deception very often describing very different things. Now what's a hoax in this budget? The deception in this budget actually began the moment that cocoa and Arabic were cooked between drugstores and the ministry due to unpaid bills. It was actually a game that this rebalance would come into this assembly with some purpose, and that goal should be to pay those debts or part of the debts that were made. I don't know who in this country knows what the legal term of payment is. Last week or so, I read a report from the Competition Protection Agency, which was very well punished by several of our companies with several million fines because they sought longer payment deadlines or extended payment deadlines for their committees. What is this country's relationship to entrepreneurs where one job is punishable and the other is self-introduced? But if I wasn't just doing it, I'd be doing part of what I'd even say is itchy, which is the City of Zagreb. The second biggest delusion of this budget is in fact the City of Zagreb that this government has done something to help the City of Zagreb in the past 8 months. Why did the prime minister just a few days ago name a V.D. The fund manager? So to talk about it without having to tell a story about why the same prime minister promised to have a fund and measures in a month and start rebuilding. The same prime minister and finance minister mention in their reports the funds to be spent on the City of Zagreb. I didn't see it in the budget, but literally not a drop in funds, more than v.d. The fund manager said the renovation will begin in the spring. Now, why will it start in the spring? It will begin in the spring that HDZ could promise something in the 2-3 month, thank you very much for the replica, so that it can go to the polls in the 5th month and take some political points on the basis of these promises. That's why this budget rebalance is a hoax. What was essentially to be done in this budget rebalancing is that the finance minister can't actually get caught, it needs to be caught by the prime minister or the government as a whole, and that is to do to restructure this country's system, or find a way to help develop the economy so that this same economy doesn't be as the minister said exclusively useful the other day, or that the tourism sector is too heavy an activity, so if we close the cafes down 50-60% of our budget filling. Here, there's a replica, so let me answer it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11134	Thank you very much. The Republic was raised by a respected representative, Boric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11135	Thank you very much, Vice President. Coliar Brumnić, I was already at the time when I was downstairs saying, so I am glad that you are in opposition with the experience of leading your SDP Club in the city assembly that you were just talking about, I am talking about Zagreb and 11 years old. You have brought Milan Bandic down if I remember well and of course Milan Bandic is here, you have moved here to the Assembly and it suits us that you are still sitting here and giving these discussions to the budget rebalance because every time you show up and you say we want, I don't know, money for Zagreb, and you vote against the budget in which that money is, we will tell you that you are actually hypocritical, no, that you are looking for something, and you won't help that something happens. Also for the health system. You're looking for an active fight against the coronary virus provided by the rebalancing and the budget with the money, and you're saying we're against it. We accept that you are against it. We'll vote it ourselves without you, it's no problem at all, but we'll have your I.D. on this rebalancing so that we know what we need to say in the future. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11136	Dear Representative Brumnic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11137	My esteemed colleague did not say that this budget rebalance was deception, and I did not point out as the first thing the agreed, agreed-to-play game of the minister, government and wholesalerry where it was clear to everyone that this was done precisely because of what you are now saying, that you could say that the opposition did not vote, that it did not want a health recovery. That he wants to resuscitate the health care system, but not like this. That's the problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11138	Thank you very much. The next debate will be the respected representatives of Sabine Vosovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11139	Thank you, Mr. Vice President HS, dear ministers with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. A lot of the topic has already been dealt with in some way during today's debate on rebalancing, budget rebalancing, and you are here as a promoter and have made it very clear that this rebalancing is being rescheduled by the health sector, increasing pensions and unemployed, increasing social welfare rights, and going towards support for the economy and farmers. What is also evident is the fact that a good part of the expenditure side, or an increased part on the spending side, will be directed towards co-financing of EU projects at the central and local level. Now that we are on this subject of co-financing of EU projects and the withdrawal of funds from the European Funds, what is missing is the further removal of barriers that would make it easier for all entities to withdraw European funds as effectively and easily as possible. Unfortunately, today we are in a situation that we haven't institutionally opened this path yet, but very often, the users of the funds, as well as the applicants and those participating in the competitions see this institutional framework not as support but as an obstacle. Secondly, I find it even more problematic to ask, and this is also said by colleague Ahmetovic and some colleagues from the SDP Club of Representatives, the lack of a clear strategy not only for funding in this budget period but also for the use of funds in this period, and this is not the existence of a strategy which is a key ex-ante condition that would be a strategy, a national development strategy that has been waiting too long, allegedly just standing in someone's drawer. Now, how ready and able we are to withdraw the funds of European funds without paying for the penalty. We warned here in the assembly a year and a half ago that in some ministries, I personally warned, at the Ministry of Science and Education, aware of the fact that double funding is unacceptable, that the same things are financed from the state budget, and on the other hand, EU funds are used for the same purposes, some ministry leaders have simply deafen themselves to it and have done things that are not allowed and that Croatian citizens, in particular on one project, the Ministry of Education will cost us no less than 6.4 million kuna, penals, fines, however you will because of the illicit work that you have warned here that this does not work when it comes to these actions, but it continued the same way. When we look at a major PR project that the government likes to brag about in the last few years, which is Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem, so it is an eclectic example of the abuse of funds from EU funds and their orientation in the private pockets of those close to HDZ. Hejduković, a fellow member of the family of influential Slavonian HDZs, who will thus be used by means of European funds intended for the development of Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem which the citizens of Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem have never seen, and these funds have gone to some property on the coast and ask God whose pockets or pockets we know. But what's the point of that? Using, we are used to unfortunately in Croatia that we are already sadomasochistically experiencing that our budget is used for party and private purposes, but I think that the EU rarely see such an example of doing the same shamelessly with their money, only that it looks a little differently and penalizes such phenomena. Don't let it happen anymore, it can't happen because what they say is a grain of cake, so here and here we just pay for it all at the end of us. And the health care system's been a lot of talk about him, but the real situation is pretty alarming there. Recently, I don't know if that information is correct, that Minister Beros is due to insufficient number of doctors that there are a large number of overtime hours that the minister would now reduce. So we're missing health doctors on one side, and they're putting pressure on hospitals to reduce the number of overtime hours. Don't do that, secure funds for those people, we need them now more than ever. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11140	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be respected representatives of Dalia Oreskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11141	I would like to congratulate my colleague, Glasovac, on all the information she has said, and I am pleased that Mr. Boris, in his replica, touched the protection of Milan Bandic and showed with whom the HDZ shares a valuable, moral and interesting genetic code. But when I talk about rebalancing, you haven't got a word yet, I'd like to comment on the changes on the expenditure side. The reasons for the proposed expenditure increase in individual ministries suggest poor planning and worse still bad governance for these ministries. And I'm going to continue what I started this morning, which is that the greatest lack of our legal order is that there are no rules on the personal responsibility of those who illegally, untransparently and irrevocably spend taxpayers' money. The increase in salary expenditure in the Ministry of Education, Home Affairs and Justice shows that those who manage those portfolios or who are unable to manage or manipulate certain items in order to fit the limits set by the Ministry of Finance. For example, the first rebalancing MUP this year reduced the salary rate by about 50 million kuna, and now raises them by more than 100. It is obvious that instead of simple mathematics they use some to the spiritual techniques of predicting these costs. In addition, the MUP needs to be asked about the item of the 42 million kuna increase in return for funds to the European Commission. If there is a return of funding from an EU programme or so on. The corrections are then clearly punishable for playing out the provisions of the public procurement law. A common case in our Croatian legislation and in practice. The third paragraph also raises the question of what relations between the MUP and the AKD as state-owned enterprises that could not have been planned, but as some extraordinary item are leveled at the end of the year in another budget rebalancing. This continues similar items related to payments by court rulings such as the 61.5m kuna in the Ministry of Agriculture and the 38m kuna in the Ministry of Education. I'm curious about the decisions that led to these expenses, who made them, and why? And finally most importantly, will anyone on behalf of the Republic of Croatia finally sue former officials who have made illegal and harmful decisions and ask for compensation, because until they begin to press charges against officials who have done harm to the state with their unconscious, and often with arrogant actions, we will not put an end to such behaviour. This mainly refers to officials coming from the HDZ spectrum. To the end of the biggest dubiosis. The health department obviously doesn't control hospital expenses. The cost of the drugs is the biggest, but not the only serious item. The finance ministry has only admitted that it is not actually the biggest debt, the problem of paying the debt to the wholesalers, but it is a much bigger problem of knowing that this is not the problem. The debt continues to be generated and again the health minister will issue a new account. Leaving a health system in the hands of incompetent ministers who have no minimum ability to manage it, not only is it a crime against tax bonds but it is very irresponsible to patients and healthcare professionals. And it might be good to replace the current minister while he's still as popular as waiting for the awareness of his incompetence to expand enough will cause even more damage to all these stakeholders I listed. And another addendum. The strangest item in this rebalancing is reserved, for example, at the foreign ministry's position. I don't understand how we can't plan the amount needed for international membership fees, so now we're missing 13 million kunas? In the case of the budget and projections for 2021. It seems to me that it is too optimistic to plan any income from profit tax, a reduction of only 10% is not logical since a large number of companies will experience a strong decline due to the epidemic and the measures that are being made and planned from day to day, ad hoc, without a systematic plan, which we have often talked about these days. And since there is no detailed representation of the planned expenditures, we cannot discuss them further. So I won't be one of those who supports this rebalancing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11142	Thank you, we have a few, please stay, we have several replicas. He is the first respected representative of Boris.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11143	Thank you very much. Comrade Oreshkovic, we debated a lot while you were sitting there on the other side, remember no, you were one of the chairmans of the commission who introduced a time limit to determine the conflict of interest, so if you were at a meeting for 45 minutes then you were potentially in conflict of interest, if you were the director of the company for 20 days, and you shouldn't have said that there was no conflict of interest. But it wasn't my intention. I'll apologize for the amount I said, not 70, 42 and 500, now I've looked, for the amount of the Janafu invoice not, so I looked at mine that I got in the 2nd month 2018, I'm not going to tell the company, but this complete implementation of the GDPR system means the rule, forms and maintenance of a year at least, means 15,000 kuna, I think that 100 EUR's almost your watch, those 68 hours still being a little too much since it was a public firm, I mean a public firm, no. Now how did you get into this company I don't know, but it would be nice if you could explain it to us and tell me finally if you're still the president of the party Start and Party with a name and last name or if you've given up somewhere?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11144	Dear representative Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11145	Mr. Boric, you know what I see when I look at you? I see my personal bank bitch, I see you as someone I can sue for a few damages charges, which, if I'm tossed further through the courts, will greatly enlarge my savings book. I ask you nicely on behalf of all Croatian citizens to stop making final slanderous, offensive and untrue claims. As for the way I got the job or my company, my former law firm in Yanaf is the same as all the other Croatian lawyers. Since the Republic of Croatia has a large number of public authorities, one 576 cities and municipalities, please ask each of them in what way they have entered into a contractual relationship with the law firms representing them and if you find any deviation from the way my company is engaged, I will explain details to all Croatian citizens. And like I said, Go on like this, I think you'll get me a little better... [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]] at the end of the term. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11146	The next replica is the respected representative of Maria Jelkovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11147	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, sometimes it's a good-looking thing in the opposition, but sometimes it's not easy. Policy does not mean, especially in the opposition, just labeling in a negative sense those who are ruling because it does not go as we have seen in the long run with the voters. You said our ministers overstepped their responsibilities many times and made illegal decisions. I'd love it if you said don't talk in general. We know, and you know that there is a Budget Act, a Law on Fiscal Responsibility, a Law on Public Procurement which, according to which all our officials act, and then at the end of each year comes the audit and audit experts who assess whether they have worked in accordance with these laws. I have not heard that one of them, by the audit, has been declared or found to have done such irresponsible things.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11148	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11149	My colleague Jelkovec, so maybe you can sell straw, fog to Croatian citizens, obviously you're doing it well, otherwise you wouldn't get power from these 16%, but not from me. Therefore, a state audit cannot carry out every year an audit of all public authorities, but every year by lottery or by some kind of methodology, select only 30 of those that it combs not too detailedly because unfortunately they do not have adequate tools to work there even though they work honest and honest people. As for very specific irregularities, I was very specific, but I have not received a concrete answer from the Prime Minister and your individual ministers. Here's what I've asked as a question this morning, 8.6 million kunas have been paid to extort a foreign company for a single art in Agrokor, although it is contrary to the provisions of the Criminal Procedure Act and the rules by which the skills are determined by any Croatian citizen or company when the witches are elected from the list of authorised court witches. Who's going to make up for 8.6 million kuna in the state budget? [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]] Someone from HDZ? [[Intruder: Next, next replica...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11150	My colleagues Oreskovic, you constantly exceed your time on purpose. Next time, I'll give you a warning. Every time, literally every time you talk, you talk longer. It's incorrect for other colleagues. Then anyone from any party can speak longer. What makes you think you're the only one who can do that? And no one else does? Excuse me. You can't, of course you can't, please, have a replica with the next respected representative, Petyr. [[Invadica Oreshković: May I answer?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11151	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues Oreshkovic, you spoke of the rebalancing items that should be further enlightened because they are high, 141 million kunas that relate to debts and the obligation to repay funds to the European budget due to unintended or wrong spending, and there you have absorbed that it would be important to actually withdraw the question of those who are responsible and I agree with you, I asked this question this morning, by further research I came up with the information that it was about debts and wrong spending of money that occurred between 2012 and 2015 in a segment that relates to a illogical migration management because it is that we received financial resources to cover costs for the assistance of migrants but that then the Minister of Interior has no evidence or any account that could be attached and that it is now bringing this to bring about financial resources to cover the assistance of migrants. This government in a situation where it has to pay back the money we justifiably got. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11152	The answer of the respected representative Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11153	I have no problem with whether responsibility on the right or the left or any other side of political spectrum, and through my former function, I have shown that by an equal measure, under the same criteria on the basis of the letters of the law, I judge anyone who performs any public duty. And the fact is that all non-transparent, all unlawfully exercised by this government in both the current and the previous term, will come at the expense of some future councils and Croatian Parliaments and the compositions of the Government and what I have been asking for since the 10th term of the Croatian Parliament is that it introduces rules of personal responsibility and full fiscal transparency, unfortunately there is no Mr. Hrebak here today, I heard what he was saying yesterday about how the opposition is not constructive. One constructive proposal that I literally repeat every time I refuse an opportunity to say something is the full fiscal transparency of all the authorities.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11154	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Arsen Bauk, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11155	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President, the esteemed colleagues and fellow MPs, the esteemed Mr. Secretary. I applied for an individual debate to try to fix one, I would say, indiscretion in the budget as regards the division of the Ministry of Culture and the cost positions for the European Capital of Culture of Rijeka 2020. In fact, there is no need now to explain in detail the importance of the project and everything that has already been done and what has been preceded, etc., but rather to draw attention to the agreements between the city of Rijeka and the government and the ministries, so the initial promised aid to the city of Rijeka was 25 million kuna. In the State budget adopted at the end of 2019, the amount was reduced to 15 million kuna and subsequently this rebalancing due to the COVID amount was reduced to 10 million kuna. And the current proposal is to reduce to 8, so another 2 million kuna. Now at the same time the budget of the Ministry of Culture has increased by about 4% and 53 million kuna respectively, I can understand that it is working on restoring perhaps cultural heritage due to the earthquake, but the problem arises the moment we realize that this reduction of 2 million kuna is related to programmes that are already either contracted or produced, and most of it has already been implemented. Not only that, except for these 10 million kunas that should be foreseen in the budget for this project and for the following year 2021, it would take another 3.9 million kuna because it has been extended because of the COVID and the epidemic is for Rijeka and for this Irish city, which I will not say my name not to be wrong, provided for the programme of the capital of culture to extend until the end of April 2021. The 2020 and 2021 budget should therefore provide for 13.9 million for the European Capital of Culture Programme of Rijeka 2020. So I repeat from the initial 25, down to 10, that's where the city fits in and now it's reduced by another 2 million of something that's already been spent. If they gave me an amendment to an international obligation that was agreed and the government or budget had to pay, we would be rejected for procedural reasons. And this is the same, so the government has made a proposal for something that has already been based on the funds that have already been agreed and implemented. The SDP Club has proposed an amendment which, and I think, is the only one the club has proposed so far to increase to, to return this item to 10 million kuna, we want the Government to accept the amendment either in the form we have proposed, in any other form, so it is either found in the culture ministry budget or in another part of the budget, the possibility of returning these funds, here we politely warn, that there is no policy, etc., and of course it is also overlooked in the budget for the 2021st additional 3.9 million to complete this project. In this sense, I will end my individual debate here, the mayor of Rijeka wrote to the government and the prime minister to resolve this problem, the EPK is therefore not only a city event, it certainly has its own international and state level and would like to see this story resolved in a way that at least this 10 million kuna funds now in the budget, that they remain at that level and that another 3.9 million kuna is overlooked for next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11156	Thank you very much, the next individual debate will be a respected representative of Matko Kuzmanic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11157	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President, fellow MPs, Your Honor. What I'm saying is that no matter what my opposition told me about rebalancing, the ruling won't accept it. That's unfortunately so. No matter what suggestions you make me, you won't respect them. How do we support the rebalancing of the government, which believes that its problems are always blamed for others and the solving of these problems, again needs to be done by someone else in this case by the EU? Our whole strategy, our governments, is about saving us from the EU. It's embarrassing and humiliating. And finally, the rebalancing is just a fire escape measure that should have been reformed a long time ago. Will he solve the problems of our entrepreneurs? He won't. Will he solve the problems of our private sector? No, but we are saving the state administration that this government and this ruling majority will not reform. I'm sorry there's no Mr. Boric here now, so let me tell him how they helped that government he's talking about before these governments. They helped by supporting and hoarding people to come with gas bottles, to lift tents, to bind to the waterfront, to threaten, to find any initiative that would take place by the reform government at the time, to encounter one street dissent and disapproval of any other idea. I'm going to mention just something I've heard that a lot of stories about highway construction, the very fact that during our government, that highway price was 4 times less per mile than it was during the government that devastated this country and brought us into this situation that we're in today. Nowhere and will never be mentioned because you can't get into it and it's a project to reorganize the state, abolish the county, eliminate the municipalities, because that way you would shoot yourself in the leg and that clienteleist machine that ultimately serves itself, and to the detriment of the private sector is what you boast and admire. So once I expect you colleagues in HDZ to experience a spirit of freedom, some kind of internal renaissance to experience, that in some way you say "is, here we have made a mistake", so I'll say "here, and our government has made a mistake not making certain reforms" but I see only the words of praise from you, you just repeat one thing and the same thing, one after another, praise your president and thus nurture this party monolithic cult of personality that unfortunately lives amongst you who are the greatest critics of the party and such a system. The coronary crisis may have caused all of our problems, but I assure you it isn't. She emphasized and showed how fragile we are. And maybe one day that crown will blow those wind power plants from Dinara we talked about a few months ago but in the end our structural problems, our real problems will remain and we will have to deal with them. I'll be the happiest when I see one part of the self-critics on your side that you're willing to accept, and when you're also some good initiative that you can take to the opposition and say, let's work together in that direction, no, you call on, I don't know, you're back in the past and I don't really know where it's going, so we expect one of these rebalances is totally absurd. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11158	You have one replica of the esteemed representative of the Habian.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11159	Thank you very much, Vice President. My dear colleague, I must admit that I did not understand best this first part of your introduction to EU funds, so Croatia is an EU member and as such has the right to these 24.1 billion euros that it will receive in the next budget period. If I understood correctly, you would probably give it up. As for the reforms you keep mentioning that HDZ is not implementing, here's the other day we heard the fifth round of tax reforms, so profit tax, VAT, income tax, we heard you today in the debate, and it doesn't satisfy it. And finally, while you're talking about EU funds, thanks to the "your" government, we still don't have a Foya campus in Varazdin in view of your ability in 2013 when you negotiated with the European Commission and failed to negotiate the financing of student campuses. So much for your ability and your reforms.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11160	Dear Representative Kuzmanic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11161	Thank you, Mr. Habib, I mean, I really don't know anything about campus since I took part in that government that you're talking about, I really don't know what you're talking about, Varazdin, but I don't see the way I'm... I said you're just relying on those means, you don't see your guilt anywhere, you always need someone else to solve your problems. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I don't get it when you say "we're against," we're against you giving up on the real reforms you need. And yes, that's the kind of pension reform you've made and the reforms that your colleague has been talking about that we who have high wages will get even higher salaries, those who have low salaries will get some small raises, you call that reform? So they're called the Don Quiyot Reforms, which means reform to the benefit of the rich and to the harm of the poor, that's the reforms you're carrying out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11162	The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Erik Fabianic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11163	I thank the chairman. So the agenda point is the budget rebalancing, so is the jargon called its execution as a united debate, and what does a rebalancing serve? Rebalancing, the second rebalancing is otherwise called in the jargon by technical rebalancing because, after it comes to the implementation of the 2020 budget, when it is on the agenda, it is generally used to heat up or reduce the disproportion in relation to the planned values, whether budgetary or through the first rebalancing, in order to reduce the items of over-realisation or non-realisation of certain budget items. And that's every other rebalancing, one that's done before the budget, so that when it comes to the agenda it looks better with smaller proportions or let's say small deviations in the realization of the planned. That's what the second rebalancing is for. This second rebalancing hit one more thing, so that's the pandemic issue, so it's a de facto technical-pandemic rebalancing. I think there's one thing about the first rebalancing that's well done when we talk about the income side because the government put up the word so manually, it raised the manual because it reduced the revenue side because it saw especially after the lockdown that the revenues were falling drastically. And that's good, it's good to plan less than what we now see in second rebalancing that still these planned funds are increased. Now, in that part, you need to see how the iron went. So how did we iron this material that was under discussion? Now, instead of thinking about this ironing that my colleague, Bauk, has specifically looked back on because there are some contractual obligations that exist, which aren't just a unit of local self-government, which is when you go to the ironing end, so before the end of the year, then you go to what you have real items where you can quickly spend that money. That's what she was ironing herself into. It didn't sting into something that might have some kind of pre-election sound. And then the debate comes down to one side saying "you're thieves" and the other side saying "we can be thieves because we've won elections". Well, gentlemen, that's not how we can argue. If we care about this country, we can't discuss it. The government is there to regularly administer but political decisions and a view of Croatia's future we are making here. Someone's proposing, but that's up to us. It was my minority, it was you most of them. We have certain legality. The legitimacy is to be discussed but the laws in this country must be respected. Well, and what we can talk about, those who are a little longer in that story, they know, they can say "and now I'm going to be against the rebalance or against the budget, so it collapses the health care, and it collapses this, it collapses," I reciprocate and spin what would be said today in the jargon and say “no, my amendment will be a billion more for health care, and then you will be the ones to destroy health care, ” and that is not the story. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's a story for little kids. These are stories for small children, when you talk like that, but if we're going to have a very serious conversation, then I'm going to talk about the Rijeka KBC that somehow survives in these moments because I'm coming from a city where this health care system where I live, living on the basis of buildings made by the Austro-Hungarian and the disgraceful Kingdom of SHS, and for some in this hall, it might be even more embarrassing because a Yugoslav self-dependence was built and that's all we have. We got something from this country that we might get, and then the presence in Oreshkovic's government was a time capsule, no excuse, a stone foundation that lays in order to build a new pediatric clinic, and now Plenkovic's prime minister is coming in his previous term, and now he can't put on a rock foundation, so he's laying the time capsule. And we'll only have a pediatric hospital, and what about the entire KBC? And when you add up contributions to the health care of the Primorian-Gorski County, which is working money, it's not this country's money, with that total amount, so I'll make the hospital in one year.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11164	Thank you very much. The next debate will be the respected representative of Goran Ivanovic. [[Fabianic: Where's the money?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11165	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. In order to get a chance to draw up a budget or to get a chance to rebalance the budget, it must be won in the elections, it is simply rule no. 1 in politics and there is no deviation. HDZ, Andrej Plenkovic was given the opportunity to present what they presented to us today, and I really don't see any problem there. What I am told as a man who when he left his Vladimirs here on Monday is the way of Zagreb, my mother told me "don't argue with anyone, don't argue with anyone but defends the interests of the region where you came from and who sent you here to the Croatian Parliament" so I'm going to have a few thesiss that have disturbed me as a man who lives all his life in one place, in a village called Vladimirevci, who belong under the Osijek-Baranja County, that here thesis is that the mayors, mayors are criminals, thieves, especially those who come from HDZ, are terrible criminals and thieves who did nothing but devastate and steal everything. Do you know that in the 30 years of the existence of the Croatian state, HDZ was never in power in the city of Osijek? Once, it's only six months. while it was the mayor's elected council system. Is Osijek a space shuttle? It's not. Osijek was once the centre of the Slavonia-Baranja-Srijem region. Where's Osijek today? Who runs the city of Osijek? Who has run the city of Osijek in the last eight years? HDZ certainly doesn't. But the trees and rocks on HDZ. I'm sorry to hear that. The voice coming from Našica says that the project Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem did not bring anything, absolutely nothing to Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem, so only in Našice at this time to rebuild two castles of Pejačević, 100 million kuna. When would Nasha come to the original revenue of 100 million kuna if it wasn't advice for Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem? You all agree that the minister is one of the most successful finance ministers in the history of the Republic of Croatia, and I agree with that absolutely, and why do you think Minister Maric made the worst budget rebalance in the history of the same Croatian state and that this rebalancing wants to damage the citizens of the Republic of Croatia? That's not true. We have a situation that no one could have predicted, and you know it very well. The Corona crisis couldn't be predicted, it happened, it has its financial effects that we have to respect. I'm going to say one more fact that I think is very, very important. If the Ministry of Finance and the Government of the Republic of Croatia hadn't run a responsible financial policy in the last four years, the question of what would have met us this year in the 2nd period. when we faced a coronary crisis. And I'll say one more thing. We Slavons and Baranians are men of great heart. All parliamentary representatives who come from Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem raised their hand in the Law on the Reconstruction of the City of Zagreb, who died in an earthquake in March of the month. It is Croatia, it is our Croatia, there is no other Croatia. And yours and ours, and all of us here, so we sit in the Croatian Parliament, so people will be fine. The labels that are heard from one side and the other. It will not bring Croatia to that level that we all advocate. In addition, I believe that these changes to the budget must be the fruit of the profession, of the knowledge of Minister Maric and of course of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Mr Andrej Plenkovic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11166	Thank you very much. We have several replicas, the first respected representative of Sabine Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11167	E colleague Ivanovic, I am so glad that you mentioned between us and Nasica, it is true that the works are being done to build the fountain and renovate the two castles, and these are European funds. This does not mean that some other funding from European funds intended for the development of Slavonia, Baranja and Srijema did not end up in pockets in which they were not allowed to end, which I was talking about and you know very well, but on the other hand the job of local leaders is to ensure these people a normal life, they will not live from the fountain and from the renovation of the castle, either, will go away again from Slavonia. At present, here at the hospital, he has not yet sat down a regress for 2020 on which employees are legally entitled, travel expenses are not paid in time, the limit of the General County Hospital of Nasice is 5.3 million kuna per month and wages are spent with 6.4 million kuna, so who determines such limits? Who thinks the hospital can survive with such restrictions? Is that the government, don't just say that the director, if he's the director, is also appointed by the HDZ. That's what this is about. EU funds are welcome, some end up in pockets where they shouldn't but the job of local leaders and the government is to work for citizens and not work.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11168	Thank you very much. The answer of the respected representative Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11169	Thank you very much. Of course, I absolutely support this part but knowing Nash, practically passing through Nasice every week, Nasice when looking at the entire Slavonia, surely the front, Nexe group and all that Ours in economic terms have, certainly is not just about fountains, squares, and that is the essence of the story, and that is, we have to be nice to someone to like, to have someone come live in our neighborhood, to be together with us. As far as county hospitals are concerned, that's what you could talk about. Remember the reform and the SDP government when it comes to county hospitals. He remained a debt to the county that we had to deal with for years. It was something that was not good but overall, let's work on what is the goal, to make that better life for every Croatian citizen.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11170	The next replica is the respected representative Matko Kuzmanic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11171	Thank you, Vice President. Here's Reverend Ivanovic, exactly what I'm talking about, what we're different from you about, that's what I'm about to tell you right now, that's, yes, I agree with you, Mr. Maric is an extraordinary expert who I really appreciate as an expert, and I really don't understand what he's doing in the company of one Boric and the like who are only demagogues and who are dealing with some kind of cheap politics here in the Assembly, so really, it's the only thing I can't give an answer to, but I also have to tell you that at the time when Mr. Beros was elected minister, I was very pleasantly surprised and in some way supported and gave my maximum contribution at that moment when the coronary crisis took place because that we didn't replace Minister Kujundzic or that you didn't change him who was the real representative of your electoral body, probably Croatia would have more dead at that moment when it was on the day of Normandy '44. Well, thank you very much. [[Upadica Ivanovic: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11172	Take it easy, take it easy. You're a colleague, you realize that you've now offended two people. At least I hope you're aware of that, I won't give you a warning but I'm deliberately saying it simply because next time one of yours is going to be so sensitive, I'm not going to give a warning either. And now you have offended two people, you have insulted a fellow Boric who is not here at all, one Boris etc., and you have offended the former health minister. So, I just want to tell you, I'm not going to give you a heads-up about this, but I'm asking everyone not to go ad-hominem, so we don't insult people. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11173	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11174	Excuse me, just a moment, before you answer, we have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, a respected representative of the coat of arms, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11175	Dear Mr. Vice President, Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Our colleague was injured by an officer. In 238, and he really hurt him because he said something to his colleague, Boric, that he shouldn't have said here in this House, that's our colleague, and that kind of conversation is inadmissible. So I suggest you and I ask you to give him a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11176	I told him not to like it here, and I said I didn't give him a warning, but who now raises a breach of the Rules of Procedure and abuse, I'll give it to him, I'll announce it in advance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11177	Your Honor, I accept the notice in advance of the abuse of the Rules of Procedure, I apologize if I have offended you, but I apologize to the person who calls me a Communist and the like. Although I've never been a member of the KP in my life, and I didn't, so I didn't complain to you afterwards, I didn't see you giving him a warning. And what I said here, that I commended some minister, that you didn't see, that I commended the other minister, but when I say something you don't like, then I need to be told. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11178	Okay, you'll get a warning, it's not like it or not like it, the thing is whether someone is offended or not. Likening is a purely subjective thing and whether someone thinks it one way or another, I'm not going into it at all, and I'm never going to get in, but I'm not going to let anyone, either on this side, insults anyone on this side or vice versa or in the middle, very clearly. Now finally choose your colleague Ivanovic, respond to the replica, is already forgotten probably what was in the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11179	It's all right, Mr. Vice President. I think that Mr. Kuzmanic realized, fellow Boric is a valuable leader of local self-government, a man who fights for his own end, a man chosen by voters from the area from which he comes and dispute any election result in this way I absolutely think it is not appropriate and that is what at that time, or what is not good at all. We must not cross Rubicon, we must not cross the border, we are still the most responsible people in the Croatian state, people in whom people need trust, and let us not bring these things to a standstill.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11180	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ljubica Maksimchuk, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11181	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow, here I am glad that in your debate you mentioned the project Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem, this project has corrected the injustice that was done to Slavonia during the previous years, and I am also pleased that we have agreed to 16.53 billion kuna so far, of course I am glad that the support of Slavonia will be realised through a new statistical division where with 5 Slavonian counties we will also join Sisak-Moslavina, Karlovačka and Bjelovar-Bilogor County, because that is the only way we can achieve a lag behind the rest of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11182	Dear Representative Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11183	Thank you very much. In fact, another of the great injustices committed by Croatia was divided into so-called By-region where absolutely Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem were attached to the city of Zagreb, our entrepreneurs could not achieve support in those amounts and percentages in which some other regions did so. It's something that had to happen and that we only understand one thing about one thing. I am from Slavonia, Baranja, Srijema, it is my natural end, but I want strong Croatia both in Zagora and Dalmatia, in Lika and in any part of Croatia. As the distinguished colleague said, Slavonia has made a lot of progress in her history, which politically, which is because of the wars that took place in her space, and I think this is just one part that we've been returning to people who have spent the rest of our lives, or for the entire century on the defender of the Croatian state.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11184	The next replica is the esteemed MPs Mariana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11185	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Ivanovic, you were talking about investment in Slavonia, I must say that this budget rebalancing has provided 270 million kuna for the Ministry of Agriculture, especially the increase on this project of Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem. But what I would like to apostrophe that sometimes for some activities if there is political will, and no large financial resources are needed is good management and mediation, so I would mention the example recently solved and the announcement that Meggle is leaving Croatia and the intervention that this government has made to take over the Maggle cooperatives and production because, of course, the existence of farmers and their families is being ensured, but agricultural production and processing is also continuing, which is extremely important.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11186	Dear Representative Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11187	Thank you very much. That's exactly what politics is, it's the task of politics when there's some kind of disorder and let's be honest, big corporations are nomadic companies that come in at one point, they have cheap labour, anything else, when they don't have it anymore, they go somewhere else. But we cannot deal with it and say “this is normal. ” It is not normal for dairy farmers from Croatia or Slavonia to have no place to transport their milk. This correspondence, which was led between the mayors of Anusic, the prime minister of Plenkovic and the interested people, produced fruit, is that forte will be the new group that will take over Meggle and the workers and suppliers will continue to deal with the work they have been doing for the past 20 years.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11188	The next replica of respected representative Eric Fabianic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11189	.../ The speaker is not on.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11190	Dear Representative Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11191	Thank you very much. I've had plenty of opportunities to be in BiH, there live our people, there are fewer, really practically disappearing overnight, it's not good, we have to do everything as a majority people for our people, our people in BiH, and I would say that 40 million kuna is something that will again be invested in the health of those people who live in that area which is less and less every day anyway, I wouldn't see anything in it that I can't be treated in that hospital if I happen to find myself in BiH. I see it as something that is the role of the state, to take care of all its citizens so that they live here on the ground of the Republic of Croatia or somewhere outside it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11192	The next replica is Honored Representative Ante Kujundzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11193	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Ivanovic, so it's true that I agree that we actually need to win the election. The election was won normally by Ivo Sanader, won by Zoran Milanović, received by Andrej Plenkovic, and so did I. But the question is who leaves behind more precisely who inherits it. In my municipality, I inherited 17 million kunas from a chief who for 23 years was the head of the municipality normally from the ranks now irrelevant but HDZ, because such a middle of the right. So, somebody always gets elected, and the question is, who is this guy? The situation is not convenient today, and we will need a lot of attempts, and therefore mistakes. It's up to the Minister and the Government to try and keep an eye on us, and there's no point in crying or shooting who did what, I don't think there's any point in boasting or defending what's wrong. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11194	Thank you. Dear Representative Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11195	Thank you very much. As a man, I have absolutely no problem with that. Anyone who has stolen something from the Croatian state has estranged, left a debt, and that there is no coverage to end up in prison, it is clear that it comes from the ranks of HDZ, SDP or any other political party. It's the essence of an institution that needs to do their job, that needs to clean up that mess that someone left behind, but not because of that, to get everyone into the same mud, for that I'm not. In HDZ, we have 100 honorary mayors, mayors, mayors, deputy mayors of people fighting for their end. I will never support them based on one example. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11196	Thank you very much. The next debate will be respected representatives of Rada Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11197	... Excuse me, here, today, the prime minister said about the management of public finances that management is prudent, strong and responsible. [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]] I may have missed it transparently, but on the basis of my colleague Bakic's presentation from our green-left club, I wonder why the budget and rebalancing are not being implemented. why I have violated the Law on Access to Information, which states in Article 10 that public authorities are mandatory, I have picked up this little emphasis from the Prime Minister that he separates words when he wants to highlight something, hence mandatory on websites on easy search and in machine-readable form to publish everything from annual plans and strategies, financial reports to the budget and reports on the implementation of a financial plan or other relevant documents that determine income and expenditure. The machine-readable format, for those who do not know it, is a file format structured so that the application can easily identify and identify it and extract data from it including individual data and their internal structure. And what do we have? We've got scans, we've got thousands of pages to print, and we've been robbed and cut off anyway. At least a little bit about how we could protect the environment and nature, and that's what we talked about in our programs. Today and yesterday on digitisation, the truth of the ruling party's ranks, some of them had to remember what it would be, what it was still missing, and it was this unfortunate digitisation. Here, today we are also thanking you for being able to hear in the assembly representatives and advocates who are in self-insulation. Why, then, are we not able to provide search and machine-readable representatives? Why are we not able to compare, compromise, and thus ensure transparency? It would certainly be too much for me to ask for a transparent budget as some cities in Croatia have and as if it were a practice in the world. It seems that the members of the position don't mind that we can't read it, because, of course, you believe your prime minister that's okay, trust your government, I'd be happy to believe and Mr. Maric is doing the best he can, but we want to read about it. We'd like to, for example. propose to fix the revenue side and some parts of the revenue side, and I have found myself. For example. Some parafiscal intrusions such as those may be removed. contributes to the Chamber of Commerce, e.g. We could also think about how and very carefully some pensions, and especially privileged pensions, not social ones, not those of the Homeland War defenders, we know what they're talking about, maybe some revenue might be made. We talked about how we know that VAT is the highest charger of the budget, so 72 billion or 36%, and all right, could we in particular do in this crisis to actively tax the business activities of religious communities that are in some way unfair competition and florists and caterers and carriers whether we have the strength or whether there are equal ones. Can we also see if we can make a contribution to the Ministry of State Property, which we can get from, for example, those revenues? The concession, we've seen how they are given and how it's coming from the property itself. And in the end, I hope the prime minister mentioned yesterday that fortunately there were no zombies, those who were not there realized that those men with beards in our dresses were scaring us, I hope that the funds that were set aside for the implementation of the Istanbul Convention would be spent on women getting shelters.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11198	Thank you very much. We have one replica, stay, we have one replica of the respected representative Kuzmanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11199	Dear Representative Boric. You are wrong when you say that the Government is not able to digitally readable document, or in this case budget rebalancing, the real terminology is not required to deliver, is it obvious that we will have to make a commitment to deliver such a document to make it easier to examine, search, and enable us to study the document ourselves. In this way, I'm a little skeptical, I think he may have been deliberately delivered in the form that he was delivered to us so that we would be prevented from just reviewing the material and in some way we have a hard time working which certainly does not go with those two components that the ruling majority or the bed of love when they start to praise the Prime Minister says crediblely, transparently and so forth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11200	Dear representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11201	So you're wrong, this law is binding and I don't have to tell you and quote it again, the public authorities say they're mandatory, and that's the law, so I guess the government needs to respect its laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11202	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives, the respected representative Damir Bakic will finally speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11203	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Honorable ministers, respected colleagues and colleagues. I would now, at the end of the day, finally on behalf of the club once again refer to the topic which has marked the debate in today's day, because the prime minister in his opening presentation has already referred to it, although it has no direct connection with today's topic of budgetary balance, which are amendments to the Income Tax Act. To remind us what we have today, today our Income Tax Act predicts exactly two tax rates, one less than 24% and more than 36% in practice, it means that they will all pay 5,000 kuna gross or lower income tax, and all those between 5,000 kuna and 42,500 kuna, I will repeat between 5,000 and 42,500 kuna, all of them subject to one and the same income tax rate below 24%, which we actually have in practice de facto is a flyerate. At the same rate, income tax is paid by those with the lowest incomes that are general taxpayers and we are top state officials. Is that acceptable, is that socially conscious? Do we feel just? We'll probably agree, you'll probably agree that we need a change. We in the green-left block are convinced that we need change, the government believes that change is necessary. The only thing the government thinks is that change is a need in exactly the opposite direction. The government therefore proposes to maintain this principle, to keep the system from only two tax rates, the government proposes that we remain with the same amount of personal deduction that the government proposes is only a mere reduction of these two tax rates from 24 to 20 and from 36 to 30. The government says in the opening part of the legal text preface, which was as the prime minister says on e-Consultation, the government says it will give us a more socially fair tax system. The prime minister says that this respects the income of every citizen, but the effect of colleagues and colleagues is linear. Those with a gross salary of 5,500 kuna or maybe as much as 6,000 kuna will feel an increase of several tens of thousands of kuna, perhaps even more when we count the cut. We, however, state officials, university professors, parliamentary representatives, ministers, prime minister, the president, we will have salaries increased by about 1,000 kuna, some perhaps more by tax amendments to the IRS. Is that more socially just? And that at the time, this time ahead of us which is just calling for solidarity and social awareness, when the crisis cannot see either depth or end, the government, however, makes this motion exactly the opposite, the government deepens inequality. Moreover, it costs the move, the move costs approximately 2 billion kuna. The government in the draft budget includes 2 billion kuna of tax revenue losses, so we can conclude a budget that will bear such a reduction in tax revenues. We think, however, that if we already have 2 billion kunas extra to express myself, when we can already save 2 billion kunas, we think that we can and must deploy these 2 billion kunas much more solidarity, much more socially aware ultimately and much more just. I will mention that it is not a solution as some colleagues suggest, it will raise tax exemption, but it will leave this unsustainable large flat war range of flat wares which we do in the green-left block, which we will propose, we will oppose this bill and propose a much more progressive system with 4 tax rates and 4 tax classes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11204	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate on this point, and we'll vote on it when the conditions are met. We now move to the next point, which is: - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2020, second reading, P.Z. No. 50 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia under Article 50. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. This legislative proposal will be discussed in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to second reading. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with Article 1(1). 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure, the Committee on Health and Social Policy, the Committee on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government, the Committee on Environment and Nature, the Committee on Agriculture. Does the proposaler's representative want to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Minister of Finance Zdravko Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11265	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President of the Parliament. Well, here's the point. I realized that we had united with the proposal for the rebalancing itself, so I already explained it in the introduction. And the proposed amendment by the Committee on Legislatives is accepted by the Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11266	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. We're moving on to a debate. The first reported on behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns' Club, the respected representative of Hrvoje Zekanovic. He's gone. He's losing his right to argue. Then we will go to the House Movement Representatives' Club in the name of the respected representative Karolina Vidović Kristo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11267	... clearly why the ruling elite postpones the debate on courts and on the DORH. [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]] Namely, when we analyse the revenues and expenditures of the state budget, we clearly see the devastration and blockade of Croatian institutions that allow the unprecedented corruption that exists in Croatia. I'm going to list a few points here that are plastically depicting that the state is deliberately and deliberately giving the state indemnity, if you want people's property, while, at the same time, the tax resources of the poor citizens are recklessly and unwittingly spent. So we have income from state property and companies owned by Croatia in the amount of 800 million kuna for the first 6 months, a state that has 1200km of coast, natural wealth, but also monopolitical companies such as HEP, Janaf, water, forest, Plinacro and when it would stand there with the sum of 800 million kuna is a ridiculous amount. Let us also add to the exploitation of mineral resources, which will otherwise be a special debate that I will personally initiate because this is about the section “Believed or not”, then that amount of income seems even more miserable. Otherwise, compensation for quarryes and other mineral treasures as well as for the maritime good shamelessly low. Only in the case of Kamenolom "Puca" in Zadar County did Croatia lose about 8.5 million kuna. Given that the mentioned quarry is located near the highway to assume that the owner had a large profit during the construction of the highway, but he did not pay concession fees. That debt amounted to 10 million kunas. And imagine, with the help of the DORH, it is written off, forgives 8.5 million kuna and that the absurdd may already be, even though he was a debtor and misrepresented his obligations, the concession was extended to him. This story was published in the New List in its own time, but nothing happened to the county's state's attorney because he was protected by scandalous state attorney Mladen Bajic. But we go back to state-owned companies and property revenues. When each of us sells an apartment or other real estate, then it is in the manner of a good master's office and arrange to make a better impression on the buyer. There is one privatisation a few years ago, which, with full responsibility from this place, is the biggest robbery in Croatia's recent history. And this is the privatisation of Croatia's insurance where Croatia has lost or can be said to have been alienated from the state budget or 3 billion and 700 million kuna have been stolen from Croatian citizens. The way Croatia sells property about it can also have thematic sessions in the assembly, a topic that is known in Croatia as privatisation or as the mainstream media, and some say the Libyan media claim privatisation in the '90s. However, Tudjman did not sell hotels but Racan and Sanader, not Tudjman sold INU, but Racan, Sanader and Pupovac, and those privatisations were in principle going to waste. The state gets peanuts for its assets, and in the end we have the JANAF case and it is clear that all these miles had to be in the state budget as a profit. Any businessman who works with the state or state-owned companies will tell you he can't get a job if he doesn't give an envelope. It's common knowledge, but it's also a Nucleus problem. The revenues of state-owned companies on an annual basis should not be less than 12 billion kunas if they were to be managed professionally and consciously by state-owned assets, and I will also point out that people who manage state-owned assets should be paid and paid fairly and not treated with socialist demagogy where the director has a salary of EUR 300 and a house of EUR 3 million. We must have what is called transparency and European standards, and they are able to choose, reward them fairly and bring you results. When we take the example of the regime tycoon Tedeschio, its illegal extraction of profits and offensively ridiculous concession fees for hunting on Hvar, then it is clear why we have such a ridiculous number of revenues from national silver and gold. Let us take another example, the world famous Oktoberfest where the city of Munchen rents for 2.5 weeks for a beer tent for a million and 200 thousand kuna. It's very clear. When you work fair, then you're successful. Then we have an item of 428 million kuna that Croatia pays for different rents and rents, and I will mention one rent from the resort of the scandalous Minister Ćorić, i.e. The headquarters of the Ministry of Economy and Environment in the Radnik road in Zagreb. The truth was not signed by his predecessor, SDP's Michael Zmajlovic, but as our public knows it, there is no difference between HDZ and SDP anymore, the State Audit declared the contract harmful despite the fact that Minister Ćoric extended the contract for a further 5 years. We have a lease where HACOM's headquarter is also a pity, but HACOM's manager is the brother of the culture minister who, I guess, is the reason why our money is allowed to pay the average rent and have a luxury office. This would be declared unacceptable by European standards. I assume the regime's mainstream media will declare this finding a hate speech, so let them declare it. The problem is that Croatia has its own properties that look empty in a bad way and instead of restoring them and exploiting them, high rents are paid because the plastic part of the rent is returned to someone's pocket. And that's where we come in for a lack of justice. Ladies and gentlemen of the Croatians pay nearly 2 billion kuna annually for the Croatian judiciary. And what are we paying for? We pay for the corruption that has led Croatians to the fact that from the 27 EU members we are 26 per purchasing power, we pay for the judiciary that tolerates and does not pursue clear, visible corruption that is impossible to hide. To be clear and unequivocal, most people in the justice system are conscious and fair, the problem is in the leading structures. And sugar at the end. For promotion services, the Croatian government spent 90 million kuna in the first 6 months. He needs to see who he's been promoting and who he's paid for. It is generally known that the government of Andrej Plenkovic through various budget items, but also through public companies, finances the owners and leaders of the media. Evidence of this is a variety of thematic conferences that, of course, serve nothing. Just look who the sponsors, donors and sponsors are. Ladies and gentlemen, Croatia is a wealthy state of working and honest people, and this document on the state budget proves capillary corruption and the binding of three groups, judiciary, media and politics with the result that we have high taxes, that we are giving state property into invaluableness, that we have come into a situation that the vital obligations of the state cannot be executed as it is. Health care, but also that not empathy and insolent elites simply continue with this and such injustice and corruption. However, here I say that every day more and more Croats see the inevitability of profound changes in order to make Croatia a happy country through the rule of law and the application of European values such as social justice and freedom of the media.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11268	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is the HDZ on behalf of which the respected representative Grozdana Peric will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11269	The Honorable Vice-President of the Government, the Honorable Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, is also part of the amendment and addition of the budget, as is always the case in part, of the provisions of this law. In this case, several articles have changed, and this refers to Article 6 where the amount of borrowing on the foreign and domestic market is changed where the debt has been reduced to HRK 59.1 billion, while according to the previous law, it was €62.5 billion. Also in this context, the government's main debt payments have been reduced from 28.5 billion to 28.3 billion kuna, as well as the total annual value of the new guarantees issued has been increased from 4.8 billion to 7300. The borrowing of the local self-government unit for this year 2020 alone changes the percentage share of 3 per cent to 6% of all units' operating income, it is only for these valid changes and budget additions. It also provides for the core capital of HBOR to be increased from 140 million to 220 million kuna and further lays down the legal basis for disbursement of the assets of the local, regional (regional) local (regional) self-government unit, which have a decline in revenues in 2020 compared to 2019, and the maximum amount planned in the state budget and according to the available resources of the state budget. So these are the changes that took place in the Implementation Act and the HDZ Club supports.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11270	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is that bridge of independent lists on behalf of which the respected representative Miro Bulj will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11271	Thank you very much. Here's the evening time I have to mention when we're talking about budgeting that the Croatian government is not concerned about national interests but is subject to the issue of national interests. So I ask the Minister of Finance or his advisor or assistant, how is it possible in the 5th month to forgive the Croatian Telecom 50% frequency fee when this foreign teleoper has a 40% margin? At the same time that income could have come to the RH budget that's 100 million kuna forgiven by the German teleoperator, what's the reason? The proposal came to the government meeting in the 5th month to accommodate teleopers. For what? It will be the Misetic dynasty, the Misetic family ordered the Croatian government as it does constantly. For the 5G network set up in Germany Deutsche Telekom, 2.1 billion euros were charged concessions from the German state, and in Croatia when the German teleoperator, however, Croatian Telekom said, but owned by foreigners, is zero kuna. At the same time as there are no local self-government units in the Republic of Croatia, gentlemen from most of you hear there is no possibility for one child to provide children's kindergarten, except for the mayor and mayor, the mayor who is the tribalo of course the reform axis, with the knife osic, there should be no colleague Boris. 40 units of local self-government, 40 out of one kindergarten, one child. I'm sorry the minister isn't here to hear, here's an example of how the budget can still be filled. Privatisation of the “Transport” of the Macarian Auto Transport Sinj, yesterday was a powerful verdict a few days ago illegally robbing what is really, taking away. Today we have the opportunity to charge off the Bjanko debtor signed by Mate Jujnović and those 17.9 billion to put into the budget and also to give to our children because he failed to fulfil the obligations under the restructuring and financial consolidation of the Sinj Auto Transport contract, which is why, among others, I was personally tried along with workers who were harassed by Auto Transport Sinj, it was waiting for the 2005 contract during Minister Šuker, he was well aware of it, he was well played in double band probably Minister Maric with Mato Junovic. And today our drawer rides down on buses from that reconstruction and financial consolidation by buses 100 years old. Every month a couple of buses burn up full of dicks, it's just lucky drivers still turn around and don't happen to lose a life. To talk about the budget, budget implementation, not to say that the government's session, the government's meeting in Split two years ago, 2 billion kunas promised for the Dalmatian Zagora project. Do you know how many colleagues and colleagues are fulfilled? Zero. My colleagues from Split-Dalmatia County are zero, nothing, zero said Prime Minister, zero, nothing is done. And today, Prime Minister Plenkovic says here that he will again enter the budget this year as promised every four years. The irrigation of the Sinj field, in the 21st century, that we have not watered our fields, that we are at the beginning of withdrawing funds from the EU, at the bottom and there we are zero. And one of the main four-year programming programmes was one of the main announcements announced by the prime minister that this government would make, that it would 100% increase irrigation. You know how many in Croatia there are a million-and-a-half nectars of agricultural land, you know how many 7,000 hectares are irrigated, and he boasts that he will now double 14 hectares means it's even 0.1% to you, it's mocking the people, it's mocking. When we talk about self-sufficiency, when we talk about a difficult moment at the same time when we import EUR 3 billion in food products, it's filled with this castelan jar, full of vegetables, 5 million pounds, about 5 million pounds of vegetables, at the same time, that Sanader Mayor knows he's well-versed with the mayor and the bankruptcy manager, the same man who pays, the OPG, who pays 30 people, exorcises the police, shuts down his water under police supervision and electricity. And we're talking about self-sufficiency. So we can increase our domestic incomes. The only quality result you've made, you know, I mean high-quality when you brag about economic growth, you've evicted our young people, 6% of GDP before the crown of the crisis has been evicted from the signs of our people 6% of GDP, it's a record ever recorded in one country, and that's economic growth. And we're not gonna talk right now, now we're gonna start to just mention it at this point means what a colleague used to mention. For renewable sources only, the citizens of the Republic of Croatia pay a million and a half kuna a year for wind power plants, which was brought by the government of your coalition partner Vrdoljak with whom you proposed power, with as much as that colleague Seks, known as an owl, suggested for the last time, and that is the fact. So a billion-and-a-half kuna, our citizens pay from their pockets renewable sources from your coalition partner Vrdoljak. And who signed it now, Krsh – Padjan? Who caused this much damage? MOST did not allow it, you know, but it is the same day that Minister Ćorić came to power to sign 2 billion harmful projects for our citizens Krš –Paden, with the help of Milorad Pupovac, because there live people of Serbian nationality, people, our fellow citizens who have also opposed, but Pupovac lobbies are thick along with all others to sign this agreement. I was just listening to my colleague, Shimprag, who was here whirring for the Knin hospital in general and veterinary, a woman who is a parishioner in the SDSS and HDZ coalition in Sibenik-Knin County who are the owners and founders of the hospital and also who voted against my amendment to allow these veterans and people in this area to be treated normally in the Croatian city, in the pride town of Knin, to allow the image of our veterans and other citizens in the general hospital and the veteran hospital called Croatian Pride. And today she's whining here, and her colleagues and you haven't voted in favour of that amendment. In our budget this year I gave for the Knin hospital that 5 million kuna amendment that the physical therapy bases there are mostly veterans treated to make it possible for you not to accept it. And today, this lady and I are banned, and I am being warned that because I have given a replica or a violation of the Rules of Procedure, I am forbidden to participate in the debate over the state budget. So much protection from Furia Radin, who is one strange democracy elected to parliament to decide 12 votes to win, I mean every honour to respect the people of the national minority, but 12 votes are received behind the house in the family and that 20-30 years that you are here in the assembly of a key person of Croatian politics and who are in power. Is that democracy, is that democracy? So we have a way and a space to save, we have options not to hit the teleoperators, we help our OPGs if we don't touch products, we don't touch them, we don't share the funds from the incentives what the minister says we've all given the incentives, we've never given them to agriculture again, and we've never produced less. Well, healthy logic says you give incentives to people who don't know what a cow looks like. He doesn't know, they don't know. 40% of cities of local self-government and municipalities cannot provide a child's kindergarten, you brought us here, 2/3 of Croatia is empty And that's the worst part of this story. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11272	We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, a respected representative of Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11273	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President of Article 238, Mr Bulj was completely off topic, we are discussing the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Implementation of the State Budget. None of what he was saying now stands in the rebalancing of the state budget and you should give him a warning. And if he had a problem with numbers, he said that the car company that was privatized or that I know that it's worth 17.9 billion kuna, that buses are 100 years old and that what he didn't say was completely out of the question, and that's why you should give him one warning that next time he's not doing it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11274	Thank you very much. I didn't knowingly give him a warning, I didn't even give my colleague Kristo a warning she said the same thing off topic, and here I am quite liberal today, so I'm letting people speak beyond the subject. I'm not going to allow the shootings, however, instead of the replicas with the false violations of the Rules of Procedure, so I'm asking you not to do it in the future. Comrade Bull, I think you heard my last line. You've done some damage to the Rules of Procedure. What's the matter with the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11275	You injured the Rules of Procedure because you did not take advantage of Article 238 because your colleague Boris gave an injury to the Rules of Procedure, and in fact he deserved a warning because he is aware that I was telling the truth and that the bad policies of 2/3 of Croatia are literally empty. I expected you to take advantage of this business opportunity, which is why I am withdrawing this violation of my Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11276	Yeah, but I'm still giving you a warning, and I'm still giving you a warning because you abused that institute. Now we're gonna take a break to get some wind, as usual. And it's good to have a little ghost-winding, so I'll see you here at 5:35. [[And I'll fight nothing?]] It's the 17th 24th hour. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 17.35 HOURS]] She's gone. She's losing her right to argue. Then the next individual debate will be discussed by the esteemed representative Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11278	Thank you very much. I'm sorry the minister left, I'd like to ask him a few questions, but I'm sure I don't know if he left you the authority. I'm sorry, you're not sorry, are you? Here's one more time I'd say it's a budget-implementation. says that Croatia's rich country, a country that should have a much higher population, I mean residents, I will tell you at the beginning of what we do in the Republic of Croatia and what the budget is saying. I know that this year we had an earthquake in Zagreb, this earthquake has essentially caused damages that the tribune will recover, but the policies you are conducting are ten times greater damage in two-thirds of Croatia. Here's the mayor of Drnish, I'll literally repeat, in our neighborhoods as much as they gave these neighborhoods, mostly human resources, the potential is being bagged by nothing. Here's my Cetina, our Cetina 40% hydropower, you know how much she's coming back? Nothing, zero. In this budget implementation it is evident that nothing returns to undeveloped and mountainous areas. As far as mountain-mounted areas were concerned, the Law on hill-mounted areas developed, Mrs. Gralac came here then even insulted when I was giving amendments without any financial envelope but the pure PR brought it here to do a certain PR and nothing else, you remember here. We don't have any of that. So this budget shows that greater damage has been done that has been made since the earthquake of Zagreb about which politics is being talked about, the continuity of mostly budget money for these areas is worse than all floods, earthquakes, all the occupiers who have been through since I don't know, 715 since the defense of the city of Sinj from the Turks to this day. Pe here I would ask you to have a strategic project of agglomeration Sinj, when you mention Plenkovic's billion release this project was 100 million kuna in public procurement more expensive, the chosen variant was more expensive than it was estimated. Croatian waters do not want to participate in this, no matter what the strategic project is, so give at least 100 million kunas, let us protect our Cetina, come help. Actually, don't help, give it back. You know what the results of your budget are? That this year compared to last year in the Cetina region we have 42 first-borns less registered, last year 400, 43, this year 401. The Cetina landscape is larger per area than Međimurje County, with more inhabitants than Ličko-Senj County, and before 2007, 800 first-graders were enrolled in the 1st class, and this year 2020-2021. 401 students. These are budget executions. If we talk about self-sufficiency, sustainability in these areas, what can it be? Cattle and agriculture. We have pastures, but we don't give incentives to those who don't know how many cows have tits but people who live there. Not with the Ministry of Agriculture boasts that all resources in the incentives are divided within the deadlines. Whom, if we've never produced less. Whom, if there are no more people in Drnis. Who? Not that there's no people, there's no cat. Why no mice, no humans, no mice. It's the Chetinian landscape, the Drinjska end, the Dalmatian Zagora don't deserve the likes of Lika. We give our resources that we have and our potentials, rather than being energy independent, into the hands of strangers, into the hands of strangers. Well, this isn't just a question I always mention here and a colleague mentions Tedescho, in the '90s, they picked up our money for guns never gave it back. I have no proof. I filed criminal charges, the same thing continued until today. Robbery, robbery, and the result is that we have two-thirds of Croatia's empty and demographic breakdown. We put Zagreb in focus which had a problem, but ten times worse in undeveloped areas and mountain-mounted areas, ten times up. Then what stories under these lights? It's a hoax. And then Prime Minister Plenkovic... this is Burxelles. So look into this people's eyes. We have no more people in two-thirds of Croatia, we must not lose hope, but we must fight. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11279	Thank you very much. We have several replicas, the first respected representative Baricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11280	Col. Bulj, you are probably not informed, so I will just remind you that this government has invested a lot in our Split-Dalmatia County only in agriculture in Split-Dalmatia County in the term of the Government of this through the measures of the Rural Development Programme a total of 535.5 million kuna was agreed, and for investments in kindergartens and construction of new facilities worth 83.9 million kuna. Investment in the water economy and environmental protection have been invested in €671.8 million for water economy projects. So for the Croatian Defence Ministry, it spent in Split-Dalmatia on all its programmes and activities 67.8 million kuna. The defence ministry has invested 13.8 million kunas in military stations in Split and Sinj. Investments in culture amounted to 120.77 colleague Bulj if you didn't know now you know and HDZ will [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] always winning in Split-Dalmatia County precisely because of investments [[Thank you, colleagues.]] The government of the Republic of Croatia [[Intruder: Fellows, please enough.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11281	Let her get nervous.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11282	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11283	No tribune fellow nervous. In Split-Dalmatia, since it was founded from Krka to Neretva in the region of Dalmatia Zagora, Kninska kraj, Drinčnog, Cetina region, imotsko end, Vrgora end, 100,000 people have emigrated, an empty Dalmatian Zagora. I don't know if you've been age? And now you're talking here when we never imported again that you invested in agriculture. You invested in agriculture? The only thing you've invested in is imagining concessions on Bol, on Brač, that's all you've ever done. And live off the concessions. You are the concession of Bene, the coalition potential to be in coalition with Kerum. Are you aware of that? You marine well-being, people's good, you build for your coalition potential. You've destroyed my Dalmatian Zagora, it's extinct, don't deceive and lie to this people. The river Cetina flows through the Sinj field, we have no irrigation.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11284	Thank you very much, thank you very much. And now we've learned that the Benes are in the Cetitian province. The next replica is the respected representative Brumnic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11285	... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11286	A microphone, a microphone.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11287	Dear fellow Bully, in your debate, you said that nothing goes back down to the Dalmatian Zagora from the money coming in from taxes and cuts. And I would ask you to say which part of Croatia has returned to? Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11288	Dear Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11289	Well, you'd agree, once we take our mountain cotter with great forest potential, absolutely nothing. So the only thing we're exporting to the balvana and our people together to do extra value in Italy, and these ends are out of people. It's the same in our fields of Slavonia, no people, no agriculture. And these are the facts and that's why we have far below 4 million people in the Republic of Croatia. But if a knight of the tomb of Jerusalem claims that I do not know where the bene is, then who will you trust me or the knight of the tomb of Jerusalem who presides here as Pharaoh? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11290	The next is a replica of the respected representative Simicevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11291	I thank Mr. Vice President, so here you are, the esteemed representative, just criticizing it, and I guess it's also okay because you're always in the opposition, and you should be critical, but is there anything you can single out that's well done or that you have the ability to participate in the creation of the authorities that you'd do the first three things, and when it comes to budgeting? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11292	Dear Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11293	I'm the representative he gave, and here today in the government was my three legal proposals, and I don't know how many of you have made legal proposals. The most amendments to the budget and first would be self-sufficiency with what Prime Minister Plenkovic mocked that is to process and impregnate the Croatian field. 800,000 hectares of raw agricultural land, and we import other people's garbage, which is why we have increased numbers and severe tumor diseases and worse, due to poor food, and our fields are unsupervised. And to you, it's funny, you'll see how many amendments I've given, how many legal proposals I've made. The EU budget gives us that what was forgiven to Deutsche Telekom through the Misetic family, which has an impact on Andrej Plenkovic, was forgiven by 100 million kuna in the 5th month, and they have 40% to get a foreign teleoperator, 100 million kuna. You know what 100 million kunas mean for Zagora, for Slavonia, for the Mountain Kotar. 100 million kunas hitting a foreign teleoperer in the fifth month of the biggest crisis.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11294	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be a respected representative called Brumnic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11295	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Minister Maric is no longer here, Plenkovic left a long time ago, Minister Maric concluded that this is a technical point and this would probably be a technical point under some normal circumstances. I asked Mr Plenkovic a rather clear question, how much the real deficit is, what is the real deficit, the prime minister did not respond to it, avoids the answer, I expected Minister Maric in his final, final presentation to look at it, did not make a final presentation, and then when you read this law, you see that additional responsibility of the local self-government units is allowed and this is explained by the problems with the crown. So these units of local self-government, or a large part of them who are granted this additional responsibility, are especially because they are very small, will ever be able to recover. Here the state simply needed those units of local self-government that had no resources, donated funds. I fully agree that some who have great fiscal potential should not have done so, but should have looked after them before. Do not allow direct and indirect responsibilities which she, for example, has allowed the city of Zagreb. I have warned from both this and the other speakers several times, and Minister Maric and members of the HDZ who voted to do something that they would eventually come to collect. There is no minister here but I would very much like to ask him how many of these duties that are granted to units of local self-government will actually end up in the city of Zagreb? Here, this law provides for an additional 2.5 billion, not millions, billion guarantees to be provided by the state. The only good thing about this is actually helping hospitals owned by counties which actually shows how bad our system is. Because at this point in time, the state's assistance to the county hospitals should actually be given at any time, in every budget, if necessary, not only to the state hospitals, but to all hospitals that treat the population in the Republic of Croatia. Now you have to ask yourself why we came to this, why do we have to pass this law on the implementation of the state budget? And you can see that in one good part of the budget rebalancing, I didn't get a word of it in my debate. It is also a matter of withdrawing funds from the EU. Why about withdrawing funds? Because only 3 budget users did not withdraw 700 million kuna, and that is to say that it was not because of COVID and then when you read in the explanation why they had increased service costs, they said they had increased service costs because they were doing more. I have to admit, it doesn't seem logical, if they worked more, then they probably should have worked more on this part in the withdrawal of EU funds because these are the funds that are somehow ours and which should contribute to the development of this country. And the fourth thing I would look back on is that it's actually companies owned by the state, the cities and the counties that it is and I'm going to say nothing to worry about because I don't know what to call it, the indirect borrowing of cities, the county and this country without anyone taking care of it. I'll give you an example, he'll be from the city of Zagreb again, and that's the cable car where the city of Zagreb, via ZET, is in charge of 600 million kuna to build a cable car. Minister Maric has no idea or wants no idea. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11296	Thank you very much. Now, in the name of the Representatives' Club, the Honorable Representative Miro Bulj will speak. Let my colleague Brumnic run the session, will you? ... [[Intruder Brumnić: Replic, Replic.]] Well, when someone, no, I wasn't talking about the replica at all. [[/Intruder Brumnic, you don't understand.]] Listen up. Now, on behalf of the Independent Lists Bridge, the respected representative, Miro Bulj, will finally speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11297	Thank you very much. Here, folks, if you're listening to this, the budget report today all day long on rebalancing, the only way out and all the evil in this world is the crown. All the harmful policies that have been towards you these years, the exit has been found in the crown. In the decisions of headquarters that are controversial rather than professional, but when we talk about budget rebalancing, then we must repeat once again all together, which is the goal of the budget, which is the objective of the law that we are making. The goal is to man and survive this man in the Republic of Croatia. Let's ask ourselves if we did it. Let's ask ourselves, have we taken advantage of our potential? My colleague just asked me what would you do? Here you would have declared the exclusive economic belt that we put forward twice and you voted against. Against the fact that you are courting foreigners, Italians, their fishing fleets who, on several billion kunas, catch in our Adriatic and sell us additionally in the tourist season and receive money. He would use our potential through the forest, which we have in such quality and good, we have sawmills and we have people in the Gorski Kotar, in Slavonia. But no, we bozos go out cheap, our people go after them, and those ends are empty. He would use our water potential, our resources. He'd use it. Today, water costs more than oil, fossil fuels and other fuels. You know what we do? We give resources to the concession to foreigners who pay us as the source of Cetina, 5000 kn per month. I would do anything to encourage a farmer, not to send the police to a farmer who works as an example in the Castles, an unprecedented shame. Chovik, who employs 30 people, who are full of plastics beautiful salads and cucumbers, are sent to the police to shut down the water. Is that a cry? And you give incentives to those who don't know how many cows have tits, I repeat. And these people who hire 30 women, pay them, women are sick about what they do, and we have a domestic product. And what are we going to do now, import from Italy pastries and salads? Is that self-sufficiency? Is that the budget? As for energy, we have the sun, we have the sun given to God, we are in that position, we use 0.3% of the solar energy, more Finland than we do, the EU more than 5% on average. Mediterranean states and 18%, our neighbors. But we wind power plants, Krsh-Pared and the others. We give a billion and a half kuna to strangers in our pocket. Those were the moves that were wrong, that moved out. Four billion a year on commissions and fees, not interest, banks suck out our pockets. Four billion kuna. Teleoperators are eligible, not funny colleagues, teleopers are eligible, they only need a building permit in Croatia to set up base stations. They're forgiven for their debt now. You know what that amount in the budget was supposed to be? 50% at 5 months. They were forgiven for the HT concession, 50%. 50%. 100 million kunas to a teleoperer who has a profit, a 38% margin. 38%. In this situation when we have no reform strong we have made. Not one. Well, look at the homes of health. Here's a colleague who's been raised here for a while and at the civil protection headquarters is often visible. They're homes of health, people are left without services. In a Chetinian neighborhood, women have to be examined for five months. Wait. So where's that money going to county? It's a tribune. Countys are unnecessary. The main results are demographics. 2/3 of Croatia is empty, I repeat again, from the Croatian field to the Croatian sea. Our fishermen and peasants had to move out of our wealth this big. So we don't have the strength to declare a ban on selling agricultural land to foreigners and the Hungarians did it. Hungarians can shop in Croatia and we can't, legal and physical persons, why is that? Here, I can give you countless examples but we don't have the courage of a court policy in Brussels, and here is boasting, at home and behind, and it's worse not to say what.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11298	Thank you. A colleague of the coat of arms-Bujević was injured by the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, buddy. You can sit down. Comrade Bull, you can sit in your seat.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11299	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State of the Ministry of Finance, colleagues and colleagues. So it's Art. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 13(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013. "to talk about a topic that is not the subject of this debate", the point was very clear what is called a name and a last name. My colleague Bulj, I waited until the end, he never talked about the subject at all, but he talked about everything else and about the subject and not a word. So I ask you to give him a warning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11300	Thank you very much. I've said it before, today I'm extremely tolerated, so no matter what it is, neither my colleague Kristo nor my colleague Bulj talked about the subject, then I've allowed it anyway, but I'm not going to tolerate breaking up with alleged violations of the Rules of Procedures that aren't. Comrade Bulj, please reconsider, or I'll give you a warning if you're going to abuse it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11301	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, our colleague has been injured by an officer. 238. because she would like me to say what she wants, I've spoken everything in the subject, you've tribald her chair, a reminder because I've talked about the revenues that the Tribals were in, from the robbery of energy, from the robbery of our water resources, from the impertinence of the declaration of an exclusive economic belt, from the guessing of teleopers 50% through the family... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11302	Okay, I'm giving you a warning because you know it's not in the topic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11303	... which means I was talking about budgeting that the tribals were all revenue much higher. Incomes are much higher.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-05-0.u11304	That concludes the debate on this point and we will vote on it when the conditions are met. I wish you a pleasant evening and I will see you tomorrow at 9:30 and the first item will be the Rules of Procedure's proposal to amend and supplement the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament with the final proposal of the Rules of Procedure. Have another good night. The session was interrupted at 17.59 p.m.
