ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u9983	We will now move to a position on behalf of representatives' clubs and independent representatives, and will speak first on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, a respected representative of Jura Brkan, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u9984	Thank you, Vice President. Dear MPs and MPs, in recent days we have witnessed unremembered floods in the Vrgorian area. The headlines of daily newspapers and portals are full of testimony from our fellow citizens who have not closed their eyes for days. There are roads under the water, houses are at risk, and some are already flooded. The locals from the house are saving what can be saved. In addition to human tragedies and personal property, the main economic branch of the Vrgorje region is also at risk, which is agriculture. Vrgorsko polje is a significant producer of agricultural products. In the area of Vrgorca there is a very developed production of strawberries and other cultures. The Vrgora Jagoda Association brings together 41 strawberry producers from 3 Vrgorska fields, Rastok, Jezero and Bunina. It is estimated that between a million and a million, 400 thousand strawberries were planted in the Vregorac region. Fruit species are produced on 472 farms, and vegetable cultures are produced on 295 agricultural holdings. The Croatian Waters reports tell us the following. Over the past seven days, extreme rainfall has dropped, on average more than 200 millimeters, and locally and much more. According to DHMZ data, it rained from 3rd to 9th 12th, even 485 millimeters of rain. As a result of the large quantities of rainfall on 3.12., the rivers Matica, Rastok and Matica Vrgorska were poured out, with more than 1500 hectares of agricultural land flooded. Furthermore, due to the limited capacity of the Betina river sink, there has been a surface flow and flooding of surrounding agricultural areas and local agricultural routes. Today, 10 houses are flooded and threatened in the village of Kokorića, while 30 houses have been cut off by traffic. The water continues to rise, 2 to 3 cm per hour, the population was evacuated from the 4 family houses. The highest water supply is expected today. These flood events have occurred in this area before, but never in this size. A similar event in these areas took place in the 1960s. On the ground there are employees of Croatian Waters and Vrgorac Vodaprivreda and members of the HGSS and fire departments. Unfortunately, because of the very nature of the karst terrain, it is very difficult to defend against floods because new sources are constantly emerging. Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic and Resolute Ministry of Agriculture headed by Minister Marija Vukkovic closely monitors the situation and conducts field reconnaissances. Today, in Vrgorec, Minister Vukkovic met with Damir Krstic, a special adviser and representative of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, the mayor of Split-Dalmatia Blaženko Boban, the mayors of Vrgorac and Ploč, and agreed further steps to make the situation more urgent and efficient. As most of you know, the Ministry of Agriculture already has a 5.2. support for investment in the reconstruction of agricultural land and production potential affected by elemental disasters, adverse climate conditions and catastrophic events. It is about the restoration of agricultural land and production potential. Users are natural and legal persons registered in the Register of Farmers, and the conditions of acceptance are an official confirmation of the competent public body that there has been a natural disaster that has caused damage of at least 30% of the relevant agricultural potential. The measure does not grant support for loss of revenue. Acceptable costs are investments related to the recovery of agricultural land, construction, reconstruction, equipment of agricultural economic facilities, repair or purchase of new used agricultural machinery, the purchase of domestic animals, the purchase and planting of fruit plants for several years of harvest or plants. Consumers with a higher degree of production potential impairment will have the advantage. The aid will be granted on the basis of actual costs based on an account or other documents of 100% value of eligible costs. The declaration of a natural disaster is not time-limited, and can be expected soon, then damage reporting will begin. According to the mayor, the Split-Dalmatia elementary disaster will undoubtedly be declared. After the declaration, the State Commission for the Assessment of damages from natural disasters will assess the damage and grant funds to help mitigate and partially eliminate the consequences of natural disasters. The lesson for the future of this disaster can be this, the co-operation of the state, the resolution ministry and the entire national security system of well-prepared measures that predict such events can be very effective. A partnership relationship between local, regional and state administrations that shares their knowledge and respects other opinions can protect their citizens and offer them effective help to normalise life and restart production facilities. On behalf of all of us, I would like to thank all of our intervention services, from firefighters, HGSS, HEP, MUP, Croatian Waters and local agricultural companies in their sacrificial work in helping the unhappy, and I would like to tell the residents of the Vrgorje region that they are not alone and all of Croatia. I feel compassion for them, and I hope this accident will pass quickly. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u9985	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is that of the Homeland Movement in the name of which the respected representative Ruzica Vukovac will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u10041	Dear Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs. Therefore, according to the latest data from the State Statistics Institute, an increased number of registered adult persons related to the crime of domestic violence has been recorded. Of that, more than half of the criminal charges were rejected. In light of the infringing legal regulations, and with regard to the Family Protection Act, domestic violence is physical violence, physical punishment or other humiliating treatment of children, psychological violence that causes injuries to dignity or anxiety, sexual harassment, economic violence, and neglect of the needs of a disabled person. Consciousness in the perpetrators that the same, after committing domestic violence, will be subject to criminal sanctions in the form of minimum amounts of cash or prison sentences, can be indirectly regarded as a non-serious provision in relation to the suffered trauma of the victims of domestic violence. Thus certain sanctions do not express a social reproach toward the perpetrator, nor do they affect him to avoid committing such a violation in the future. What can be seen is that domestic violence under the Family Protection Act does not cover all forms of violence committed by the perpetrators. In particular, the form of verbal abuse is not isolated, a more detailed description of the violence committed against the victim is already being undermined under psychological violence, which is hard to prove before the competent authorities and, consequently, before the competent court, which leads to a high probability that such application is eventually rejected. In this connection, it is certainly necessary to stress that competent authorities do not provide adequate protection, nor are they at all times available to victims of violence. According to reports of domestic violence, police officers are the first to perform field reconnaissance to provide intervention. The protocol states that at least two police officers are coming to the scene. Certainly in that part we must be careful and ensure that a police officer is minimum arrived precisely because he is, in a higher percentage, the victim of violence precisely in the women's sex. It is also intended to provide intervention, i.e. verifications, tips or requests for the arrival of police officers should certainly be carried out when handling suspicions of domestic violence and by experts of the Social Care Centre. This is mostly because police officers, especially if they check on male persons, are not sufficiently professional in acting on the scene, especially when it comes to violence against women and underage children as victims of violence. In most cases, underage children are marked as victims of violence, so under the current trauma they are further subjected to new traumas unprofessional treatment by police officers. The victim of domestic violence, along with his children, is forced to leave his home while the perpetrator remains cared for within his residential unit waiting for the authorities to decide whether he is responsible or not. During that time, the perpetrator may be ordered by an authorised prosecutor to impose a restraining order within several metres, while the victim is seeking protection in various institutions. Therefore, the following questions are raised, so first of all, does domestic legislation provide sufficient protection to the victims of domestic violence, and do these provide sufficient support and assistance to combat violence against women and domestic violence? Does the state regulate in an appropriate and effective way domestic violence? Will the police officer, at the moment of knowledge of the perpetrator of domestic violence, act without an extensive determination of the facts and will indeed determine whether there is a reasonable doubt and that a crime of domestic violence has been committed? Do they provide competent bodies such as the Social Care Centre really adequately protect how the law requires and the protocol itself to be considered binding acts? Are professional services that are obliged to support women victims of domestic violence competent in providing such protection? Do they treat all victims equally without discrimination? So there are a number of open questions, but unfortunately for all these raised questions practice gives us still a negative answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u10042	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives is that of HSS and HSU on behalf of which the respected representative Silvano Hrelja will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u10124	Dear, esteemed Mr. Vice President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. The news of the day is that the accommodation capacity of homes for elderly and powerless persons will be reduced by a third and this has produced shock for users, but also for their children, and only in the second plan remains the news that this change should take place during 2021. Let's not, let's not shock our citizens like that, it's not correct. It's about family homes, but let's not, please don't make our citizens uncomfortable to panic. Know that old folk's "shut, so tell", have a solution in time and space, so present it to the public, communicate with the profession, and find a solution, and then go public. The ministry says next, we want to settle the standards after the tragedy in Andrasevec in January, in January this year, it has been 11 months since. Is 11 months a small period? Could a solution have been agreed in the 11th month? But a serious state with a serious approach regardless of parliamentary elections can and must find a solution to this problem. To remind you, 458 family homes are registered in Croatia for older, older and powerless persons with the capacity of 10,826 people. Reduced capacity from 20 users to 12 users means with the same standard increase in the price of accommodation. So it's a problem for older people's children, a problem for them themselves, where they end up. But the problem is also for family owners how to organize how to maintain standards. It's the easiest thing to do, it's the easiest thing to look up to someone else, and the word is standard 10, and they have standard 15. We have a standard of 20, and we have to do that, and we have to introduce order. I don't understand what the problem is that all 11 months can't be 460 homes, family homes that are by county, touring, recording, categorizing, determining the necessary procedures, planning, what's the problem? Well 500 isn't 5,000, 500 isn't 50,000. Three, that a mobile team of three people in the ministry can handle this in six months, and then you can only begin to separate the grain from the weeds, lead the whole process by the opinion of the profession, not by protecting politics. It can't happen that in the rule of law, we have a 51 illegal home for older and powerless people with a restraining order that still works. You're wondering how that's possible, illegal, and they're leading litigation, is that possible? Where is it and what is the authority of the rule of law? I'm asking you, is there a problem in reducing the number of users or in being unable to solve the problem? Why does the problem end up, instead of solving itself, starting on time, solving itself professionally, switching to those who already have a problem? I have the impression that all of this, all of this, this saga of homes for the elderly and the powerless lasts too long and exhales the impotence, and when the state shows impotence, please tell me how to make the citizens optimistic? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u10187	The next Club of Representatives is that of the Most Independent Lists on behalf of whom the respected representative Miro Bulj will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u10188	Thank you very much. And I would also here for a few minutes point to a number of major disasters that have now naturally escalated in the region of the Dalmatian mountain. There was a flood in many parts in this fragile area, mainly in the part of Vrgorca, the village of Kokorići. I hope that everything that is said at the beginning on behalf of the club will be fulfilled because here we have no other option but to help these people and threaten them as if they were getting more and more frequent and simply unexpected because such floods are not remembered as the people in that area say, but this oldest one can't remember or near that it was. However, I accept everything that is done well, and we all try to make ourselves available and try to help these people as much as we can to help and believe that the Croatian services and all institutions will do their jobs, work, that there will be no sacrifices, God forbid, so far there has been no and that at the end of the day everything will go well, that people will be compensated and that there will continue to be vervain strawberries there will still be fruits, vegetables, vineyards, anything that adorns that part. However, this must be a reminder that the karst areas and harmful projects, when done harmful, are mainly, but also those that are being built to try to be sensitive in this area. That area has countless caves, countless of these, so it is, the cross is it, it is a sponge in essence and if it happens as it happened now in Vrgorec and in other areas to come up with certain disorders, and we are not allowed to play in this area with nature then it comes to the creation of accumulations that have never been seen before and people simply, I am in contact with these people in that area, I cannot believe that this is happening. Of course, we try to give some criticism here, but not critics that, for reasons of criticism, everything that Croatia's waters should have done, they certainly haven't done, for what the citizens are paying them for. I hope that we will finally create a system of depletion of the vervain field, all of it, and also these places, that we will find ways and models, which has been warned for years, nothing has been done. I was personally countless times at the orchard when they flooded, down the vineyards, their surfaces in many places, and I expect it to go much more seriously into the process after this never to happen again. And even more important in this area, we have one huge resource, that's drinking water, so we have harmful projects like CGO Lečevica or other construction, for example. in the area of Dugopolje and today we have a problem that the whole of Split when there is a little less rain there is no water supply from the Adriatic is there cloudy. So we try to look after and protect our waters well, drinking water, our resources and resources in Zagor and the karst areas simply have to protect them, what we must do for development, but what would not tribal in that area, such as the CGO because of this sponged our breach in that area, our Zagor, the Cetin area, the Vrgorsko end, the Macarian hinterland, the occipital, the Knin hinterland, it is very risky and therefore we have to do everything to keep that resource and our drinking water safe because we are going to be in a position to poison Cetina because of what the agglomeration is not made, so they go into Cetina and uncontrold entrances. So we need to take care of that resource of ours because from the other day it's going to be on the stock exchanges like oil will be drinking water. It's one fortune... You'll know the prices, you'll know everything. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] We can't play with that. And I feel the need, here I stress that if I've warned it countless times here, I've talked about this problem of bad waste management, bad, especially in these CGOs, that we should finally become cautious and therefore gently towards Zagora, according to karst areas, not with harmful projects. What must be done should be done, but careful not to let these things happen like in Vrgorec. I hope everything goes well, that the government and the county will find the best solutions and that it will be at the end of all eyes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u10189	Thank you very much. That's what we came up with at the end of today's work. We will continue to work on Monday, I stress on Monday 14 December. First, it will be the presentation of the position, and then the first point: - Final proposal for a law confirming the international Hong Kong Convention for the safe and environmentally acceptable recycling of ships from 2009, second reading, P.Z. No. 81. Have a nice weekend. Session interrupted at 13.40 p.m. Now, as announced, we'll take one break by midnight and 20 minutes. It's 10:00, 11 o'clock.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25167	I felt the need to say something again since some things were repeated that really do not stand. So when it comes to KB Dubrava, what you need to say is that she was formed in the spring and acted as the primary respiratory intensive centre. There were not so many patients in it hospitalized, but the function was exactly the same, even then there was an expedition camp of the Croatian Army. After that, there was one experience that we witnessed, which is the opening of the health system and we again enabled the normal functioning of KB Dubrava. This is an indication to all those who have criticised us that it is possible to return to the original very important role of such a major health institution as the KB Dubrava. So I'm mostly not clear about the rebellion of people and doctors in KB Dubrava. However, it is clear that when this threat is behind us that we will return both the importance and importance of the KB Dubrava and restore it to its original function. What I further want to say is that many health institutions have shown great organisational efforts to compensate for all those delays resulting from the first closure of the health system. We are witnessing that many health institutions have realised and solutions to the waiting lists that occurred during the closure of the health system. That's something to mention anyway, and I'm sorry that there are no colleagues from the Vulcans because he said he wasn't sure that we gave clear instructions to all the other health institutions then this spring to prevent the virus from entering the same. Those instructions were more than clear. All health institutions have been instructed to organise a certain part of their capacities in isolation units. They were instructed to act in their united emergency hospital receptions. All with the intention of course to prevent the virus from entering the health system, but by centralizing the treatment of these patients. So the instructions were more than clear and already once in the spring we had that reality scenario. So the preparation was more than well founded. Furthermore, when it comes to a vaccine that still sheds one different light on the whole Covid crisis story. It should be said that the Republic of Croatia has done everything, but in a joint effort by the European Commission to make agreements with the 6 most respectable pharmaceutical companies on the previous purchase of vaccines. So at this point, the Republic of Croatia has provided 5,900,5 million doses, which is enough for the vaccination of 3 million 402 Croatian citizens, 3 million 402 000 and 500 Croatian citizens, which is more than enough at the moment. By ensuring that we can obtain additional amounts of vaccines if necessary. However, what should be said is that the Republic of Croatia cannot come forward on its own and negotiate different terms, but we fully trust the European Commission that it will represent the interests of all its Member States and in the best faith and intent to enter into a prior purchase agreement with pharmaceutical firms. What should be further mentioned, very clearly, is that HZJZ has already developed a promotional programme that will be launched these days with the aim of promoting vaccination as a very effective method to prevent the spread of this disease. Again, there are no colleagues of Vrkljana, but I must tell him that today I have checked the mortality data and that I can repeat once again that at this time the 2,367 of which 812 were on the respirator, and 1.523 were not on the respirator, which indicates that 34.3% of the patients died unfortunately who were on the respirator. I would also very clearly respond to Mrs. Mrak Taritash again, which is therefore unquestionable that there are in the Republic of Croatia at the moment 1.168 respirators of which 9,000 pardons, 945 invasive and 223 non-invasive, that they are distributed throughout Croatia, that they are mostly in use and that they adapt, they are distributed into Dependence on needs in health care... [[Intruder: Thank you.]] [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25168	Thank you very much. We have several replicas, the first respected representative of Pavic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25169	There he is, thank you. Dear Vice President, dear Minister, we have already said when we look at the overall success of the fight against Covid, the overall mortality that we are 3 times less than Belgium and that 11 European countries are worse than us. When we look at the same thing, we also have 1,000 free beds, enough respirators, you have increased and added to our healthcare professionals that I thank. When we look at the testing, it says more testing needs to be done. Number of tests per 1,000 inhabitants in Croatia 2.38, Germany 2.21, France 2.52. So we're testing more than the Germans. When we speak of equipment I remember well I was with you in government when the EU countries stole each other from the aircraft equipment. We have seen that Prime Minister Plenkovic has called the Chinese prime minister, we have secured European funds, 370 million grants, 500 million total investment in equipment is available to everyone.../Invader: Thank you. And what you said will soon be available from all manufacturers.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25170	Thank you. Your Honor, Minister Berosch.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25171	... I would agree with you. [[The speaker is not enabled, it is not understood]] This government and the ministry have made great efforts to secure both protective means and all that is needed in the fight against this epidemic. But we don't stop there. From day to day, we meet new challenges, we get the vaccine, we try to organize vaccination campaigns and everything science and medicine offers at this time to make our answer as good as possible. So it's a global threat. No one was ready. However, by compatibility with others, I think that our small Croatia with health system separation is as great as it has already been, thanks, of course, to improvising the activities of health professionals, because I think we are undeniable because we are very adapted to improvisation in certain conditions where we sometimes lack state-of-the-art equipment and conditions. However, we always know how to make a step and how to adapt to the new situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25172	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Grumoja.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25173	Dear ministers of the other country have decided that in their institutions, hospitals have COVID departments, and we have decided to COVID hospital. I think that's why Dubrava suffers. He also suffers from clan struggles. So Kujundzic's currents, Beroshe's currents. I think it's all influencing, and I'm not sure what you've announced will come true after all this, that Dubrava will recover so easily. I'd like it to be that way. And as a question. I'd like to ask you who made that decision to go to COVID hospital, not COVID departments in different hospital facilities?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25174	Your Honor, Minister Berosch.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25175	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Parliamentary Representative, a very important question. So already this spring we had a situation that Dubrava was a COVID positive hospital with not this large but significant number of patients. During the opening of the health system, it began to function normally. The virus isn't something that bites the hospital's infrastructure. The virus is ultimately something that can be destroyed by certain means very quickly. Because otherwise, by that logic, all hospitals in Europe would be destroyed after being formed as COVID hospitals. But what's even more important to you is the answer. Therefore, the expert group of the Ministry of Health, epidemiologists, experts, all directors of Zagreb hospitals have decided on this centralized treatment. Perhaps somewhere in Europe there are conditions in infrastructure hospitals that are modern so that they can isolate individual areas and be strictly isolated from passing the virus on to other patients. We have estimated that it is not possible in the Republic of Croatia and that it is better to form centres for the treatment of primary COVID positive patients. And secondly enable other provision of health services.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25176	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of the Habian.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25177	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, Your Honor. This is a serious topic we all agree on. This is also a public space, and it would be good for all of us here to be aware of what we're saying. A little while ago, my colleague Wrkljan, I'm sorry he's not here, mentioned the vaccine I'd say in one negative context. Therefore, he mentioned the vaccine as a possible side effect of death. In this way, we can also actually take any medicine that thousands and thousands of people are prescribed for each day and take, and there are extreme cases when it can cause a natural outcome. That's how we create one negative image, one negative perception. And I'm glad, I commend this campaign you're announcing. I think it's definitely necessary and if I'm not mistaken and you said it yourself or someone from your headquarters somewhere 60% is the percentage that you need to achieve to actually make a split to actually make the effect of the vaccine feel me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25178	Your Honor, Minister Berosch.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25179	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, Mr. Parliamentarian, you're right. I don't think it's appropriate to talk about the negative occurrences of the vaccine at this point and especially stress it. This is more because not only each medicine, but also each preparation may cause side effects in one patient including an allergy that will end fatally. So that's the risk we're living with. In principle, however, medications are there to help. The vaccine is there to help. We need to adapt to the scientific attitude, evaluation and the American Institute of Food and Medicinal Products and the European Medicines Agency that will assess the relationship of possible side effects and the benefits of the vaccine. But today in the 21st century, however, it would be bad if we had doubled into certain things that are elemental. However, this does not mean that someone will not have any mild side effects. But in principle the benefits of the vaccine will be in the event of this global pandemic extreme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25180	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister. Here, we're moving on with the representatives' clubs, so now, on behalf of the Representatives' Club, the Bridge of Independent Lists, the time will be shared by the representatives of Grmoja and Bulj. First of all, the respected representative of the bush.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25181	Thank you. My colleagues and colleagues, here we are in these small nights discussing such an important subject. It was the desire of the ruling. The opposition, unlike this point that we had last night, did not collect signatures for this, but rather, the President of the Parliament, probably at the request of Minister Beros, put this item on the table. And interesting though today the President of the Parliament argues otherwise, all of these dangerous points begin after 21 hours by government. We were here from the Bridge last night until midnight and a half. We couldn't discuss it any longer because the rulings avoided the debate. They wanted it to end as soon as possible. This is an impelation after all, the whole opposition is behind this, and there's Minister Beros, and then they want to settle this. Since I am president of the Anti-Corruption Council, I will touch on the issues of corruption in the crown. But before that, only in principle about everything that's going on. I won't be too hard on the minister, and I'm aware that mistakes have happened in all the countries, that's what I've said here on many occasions. What makes people lose confidence in headquarters is that you haven't been honest since the beginning, you've been hiding behind the profession instead of saying that you're a politician like the government and that you're making political decisions and that we need to live with the virus and that we can't just listen to epidemiologists, that epidemiologists can make some recommendations and then the government will make political decisions. People would trust you more and listen more. If you'd told them, we'd have to balance between our lifestyle, between the economy, between the state of mind of the nation, between everything and then make decisions. And there was your mistake in allowing, and you're under the influence of certain PRs of Cressa Macan and others to make heroes of you. And heroes in real life, unfortunately, don't end well. And there she was, there might have been your biggest mistake. And I am convinced that as a man you have tried to do everything best to make the situation possible in Croatia as regards the health system and the rest of the best possible and Croatian citizens and all those affected by the coronary virus. Now something about corruption in the crown. So what we see as problematic, some colleagues have already mentioned, these are the prices of tests that are 4, 6 or 8 EUR in Europe, in Croatia the price of the test means some have boasted themselves, the price of the test 46 EUR is enormous money. We have the best tests then said, and the German tests weren't good enough were also such messages. Also, this procurement you say ministers need protective equipment right now, we can't wait for public procurement and everything else. I think it can be done now that it is not such a lack of that equipment that it could not be obtained through public procurement now. I'm not accusing you of that time, I said I understood the moment, the situation on the market, every country tried to ensure itself that it had enough protective equipment, but now it's not such a moment anymore. And I hope, I want to believe that in this crisis someone hasn't profited. That companies that were in charge of this had nothing to do with HDZ or some HDZ. I want to believe that's the case, but given the affairs that we've been exposed to for the past year, and how long this government's been going on, it's hard to believe. I wish I did. What we also want to say here is that since the end of March when the first plane from Shanghai was landed, which was supplied with 12.5 tonnes of medical equipment needed to fight the Covid-19 virus in Croatia, a total of over 400 tonnes of protective masks, suits, glasses, gloves, etc. So more precisely for the equipment arrived on the first aircraft that arrived on March 29th data on individual prices of medical material were known. It was published, and then everything was declared a secret. So we were interested in how many contracts and with which companies were concluded for the purchase of medical equipment from March 19th to April 28, I asked for a document you said at the Ministry of Economy it was very difficult to find, very difficult, now I found it and now I'm going to look at it a little bit. See if there are any of these connections that could be, that could be problematic. I hope I don't find anything. So, as I said and as we have pointed out in the conclusion, we believe that this decision should be abolished, and that the Government should also submit a report on this, not only to be published at the Ministry of Economy but also to come here to the Croatian Parliament, this report on the work of headquarters announced in January. According to us too late, we expected you to do it long before, since it's been nine months since this state of emergency, and finally, since my colleague Bulj called me too, we're going to share this debate. From the heart I want the Ministers and the Government to fix the situation, so yes, and I don't want you to hear it, and I've never mentioned here the number of dead from the Crown of the Virus, I've never sent any catastrophic messages because I've been saying from the beginning that we need to keep common sense. We will not be killed only by the coronary virus, it can kill us and the situation in the economy, it can kill us bad social situation, people can suffer from it, they can still be this bad in the economy, and then there won't be a pension system, then there won't be a sustainable budget, neither will Croatia, as you believe, and we also want from the opposition. Here in this spirit I would like you to understand that we do not want anything bad from the opposition either to Croatia or to this government. We just want to warn you that some of the things that have been going on haven't been good. It would be good for you to admit them, too, to restore that trust to both the headquarters and the measures you bring because it is best for me to think of both Croatia and Croatian citizens. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25182	The Honorable Representative Bulj will continue.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25183	I'll be brief. At this time, in these two minutes I will say what I repeat all the time, but ask a few questions Minister. The ministers of the crown crisis from the beginning with great support and trust of the Croatian people, and here are numerous opposition politicians saying they trusted you, can you tell if the coronary crisis was used exclusively for political PR mainly in the first wave because we see that the results in the second wave are catastrophic. So you're not ready for the second wave, and we know that Andrej Plenkovic declared victory over the coronary virus, and that's how it worked at the time. Staff, they were in uniform county headquarters, it was really coming out like they were catching him. That's the first one. Secondly, is the contradiction of the measures you've been taking, and even now, children go to school, sit together in class, go to the march, it's close, it's shared and can't deal with sports, is it normal to work large sales chains, and do not work catering facilities that cause a major economic breakdown possible? It means a lot of contradiction with respect to measures. I was in one big center a few days ago with my wife and kids, it's a crowd, soul on the soul. In a large, soul-to-heart amazing, and you've closed the caterers. For what? Why do little caterers who live on what they pay can't live? Why can't athletes play sports? Why can't children play certain athletes? The first and second leagues can. So a lot of contradiction and a lot of negative energy. And you don't trust people for that. So you see athletes warning why children can't play, why the caterers can't work, and the big trade chains are a crowded soul on the soul. It's amazing, in shoe shopping stores, you can see what it is. One takes off, the other dresses, touches. I don't know why you did it, but you've done a lot of damage to the Croatian economy in contradictory measures. Contradictivity has led you to no longer trust people in yours. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25184	Thank you. Now, on behalf of the promoter, a respected representative, Andreja Maric, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25185	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I obviously need to repeat what I said and in my previous presentation, that none of us are worthy of the work of the Staff and the Government so far. However, the fact is that these high numbers of the infected and the dead are looking for a twist in their work so far, and I hope that all that we are talking about in this multi-hour debate will still be some indication of how further and what needs to be changed for the better. You have probably read in the materials what conclusions we offer or seek. So here's the first of them is that the Croatian Parliament determines that there are significant shortcomings in the preparation and management of the health system of the Republic of Croatia under special conditions due to the pandemic of the coronary virus. These shortcomings have significantly affected the availability of timely and adequate healthcare and patients with COVID-19 and all other citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Repeat. We appreciate the work so far, but changes are needed for the better. Now, why do we think some things didn't work out in time? If not before, the summer was to prepare and plan the distribution of workers in the healthcare system. We all knew there was another autumn wave of pandemic waiting for us. A kind of integration of health institutions with regard to personnel and equipment in the Zagreb area has only recently been done. What about the rest of Croatia? What about general and county hospitals? Today we have really received information that there is assistance in Čakovec, 3 interns from Rijeka, 3 from Slavonski Brod, 2 specialists from Požega. Thank you to the colleagues who are coming and thank you for that help coming. But we're wondering, all of us who work there, why hasn't the help been secured before? The workers in all medical institutions in Međimurje as the most affected county but of course in other affected cities and counties fall from exhaustion, many have been infected at work. Under these abnormal conditions, they do their best to provide the best possible care to patients. They literally endanger their health and the health of their families all in the system. All are mobilized by the minister's decision in March. Our reality in workplaces is a daily picture of death. A number of patients fighting for their last breath. We're terrible at counting beds and respirators in the hospital. We list a bunch of findings to make an argument that the patient is fired from the hospital as soon as his condition is improved that others can be accepted and not only in the COVID departments. That's real reality. And the fact that there's really been a pay error. Okay, that'll fix it. Some have indeed received 20% less pay, and there is the hospital director's responsibility. We don't think it should have happened, and we hope it doesn't happen again. We've communicated about this 10% supplement to those who work with COVID. I ask you not to abandon any of the employees because not only those who work in COVID departments, in intensive care units, but in all departments because we all contribute. I must really point out and commend here that the most valuable part of the health system is very industrious health, unhealthy workers who, by their work and enormous efforts, hold this system on their backs so that it does not crash. Next, we pointed out in the Interpellation, that the government was unable to fully activate the civil protection system. There are improvements. There are still nurses and technicians on the stock market who haven't been pulled into the system. There's a lot of nurses. I was also talking about young health care professionals who have to do a traineeship, so there are certainly places for improvement. And what I was trying to say in the replica, so we didn't really have time to explain it completely. So it was due to begin in the summer with a detailed education of additional staff to work on sophisticated equipment such as respirator. From what I've seen in the media, just recently, the Ministry of Health has appointed distinguished Professor Ivančan as an associate in the programme of additional education of doctors and nurses in the intensive treatment unit, but only recently. Well, we think it all could have happened before. It's really not enough online education. We all do our best to further educate ourselves, literally exchange literature with each other, learn, but we feel that all of this was to be resolved systematically, rather than walking. Here's the other details directly from the field. I'll let you know in one more address. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25186	Thank you very much. We are now going to individual debates and the first one will be a respected representative of Dalia Oreskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25187	The Honorable President, fellow MPs and MPs, a day ago, I've already pointed out two of our heart ambassadors to our phenomenal handmaids who set foot towards the top of Europe, who won again last night, bravo girls. The team is sadder that the president of the state is not at that state level, so it allows the EU to represent us as the foreign prime minister and the still diplomatically executed Janez Jansa. And when I pointed out yesterday to the handmaidens of sacrifice, you chaired me in no way knightly as I read their names. Since these girls today are our ambassadors of sports and pride, they deserve me to congratulate them again today. And what does this have to do with this subject and this debate? Well, there is. I wish I could send such a card to you in the fight against the crown of the virus, but I can't. Recently, Mr. Bacic is sorry that he is not presently in the assembly was on the top of the list of missing statements because he said HDZ is the pillar of the fight against corruption. Until recently, and there you are. But two days ago someone beat him to it now we have a master level of shamelessness, and it was deserved by HDZ representative Ivan Celic, who is 10. 12. In 2020, he said the epidemic was under control. A prominent journalist summed up the attitude of our general public, who is here, could be read from everything you say about how you praise epidemiological measures and everything the government has done in the fight against the crown of the virus. Therefore, the anti-corruption stairway has an epidemic under control and Croatia can relax. So I'm wondering why we're arguing at 1 o'clock after midnight, and apparently, according to the number of speakers, this one's going to run out all the way to the tiny hours of the night. Because it's not, and three are the ones I want to prove through this debate. The first is that you have not prepared the system to contain the pandemic and to provide care for patients. The second is that you have not prepared the system for providing medical services to the sick of all other diseases. Health services have become very inaccessible. And the third thing, the third and perhaps most important thing is that the headquarters was in this composition with these powers one completely unnecessary and excess body that actually represented a double system and a model of governance that led to such bad and devastating results. And actually, the headquarters was formed and designed just like a mask. So these aren't the main masks in the epidemic, the main mask is headquarters. The mask to Andrej Plenkovic and his autocratic way of managing this crisis are increasingly being presented in an autocratic way of leading the country with very devastating and destructive results, and we see it best now by the number of newly infected today, which is 4.620. For each of these topics, I will also indicate exactly what we should do. So, if we talk about system unpreparedness and Covid for patients and for all the other best, the health care professionals themselves are talking about it. Doctors and nurses through two protests. Not to read, everyone in the media can find out what they were saying back then. Just listen to them. Then, HUBOL publicly announced on November 23rd everything he thought about the way the headquarters acted so far also told you what to do to you. I only appeal to you to listen to them. After all, the appeal of doctors and scientists in the fight against Covid is in Croatia, they all said, they revealed everything, they revealed everything and how they went. Do you really think that opposition is the most critical of the headquarters? No, they're criticised by the results, criticised by those who know the most about the epidemic. You actually decided not to listen to them. For what? The headquarters lost confidence the moment he began to make political decisions, those that were at that time responding to the political summit. Why? Because fighting to collect certain political points in a particular section of the electoral body was more important than fighting the fight against contagion. This led to a downfall of trust and we appeal, the Center Party proposed a different model, a different organisation of the formation of the headquarters in which the opposition would participate, would take over part of the burden, responsibility for itself. We also asked the president of the state to assume its constitutional powers to worry about the regular and coordinated action and the stability of state authorities. So can anyone today argue that the way the state works represents something that is stable and safe. We're going to crash, and it's high time to admit it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25188	We have one replica, a respected representative of Cellic. Stay respected, MPs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25189	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues Oreshkovic, I don't know if Mr. Klaric writes those texts or if you're just reading the Telegram. I wish you were a little more original as you are in the establishment of parties every little name of the party, and I'm going to tell you I'm not going to quote the Telegram, but I'm going to quote Jama again and I'm going to talk about what you're not prepared for, which is that Covid's epidemic is the greatest threat to prosperity and the well-being of humanity as it says in Jama and 80 million people who aren't infected with Covid suffer certain psychological consequences because of this Covid. And Covid fights all of humanity and so does Croatia, make some constructive suggestions don't just say some criticisms that don't come across fertile soil or government or citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25190	Well, thank you for that question, as Mr. Capak would say. Your biggest problem is what I'm really reading, I'm reading. I read what it says on page 5 of the report, and the minister answered it well. So, when we formed the Civil Protection Staff, we gave the authority to demand from the Directorate for the supply of goods and services what will be obtained and to then be the one who supplies and services, supplies to end-users. At the same time, however, there is a crisis headquarters of the ministry itself that has been providing instructions for the distribution of personal equipment since April. That's how the double chain of command got in. And since there is this body within the ministry itself that could have organised everything that the headquarters was doing, wait, we also had this scientific advice that could give scientific and professional recommendations. What exactly was headquarters? What exactly was headquarters? Like I said, it was a big mask. Now you can see it best. [[Intruder: Time.]] Those who read know that Okay. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25191	Thank you very much. On behalf of Proposer Mirela Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25192	Thank you very much. Dear Minister Beroš with his associate, respected colleagues and colleagues, here's exactly how MP Celic wanted me to start constructively with proposals. What is the urgent need to do? Depoliticalise the National Civil Protection Centre because it was deeply compromised by political decisions rather than engaged and made decisions at a professional level. It is necessary to provide additional funds and raise salaries and pay overtime to doctors and medical staff, thus showing gratitude for their dedicated work. We don't do anything, they don't need it, they're aware of how grateful we should be. Immediately, depolitize the entire health system and hospital system, i.e. in the hospital system, appoint managers who will financially relieve the system. Re-distribute personnel to those hospitals and systems that are overstretched. The main problem of Croatian health care is general disorganization and money leaks everywhere. Unfortunately we read that in the media. Today we learned that KBC Zagreb is an investor in 2.7 million kuna shares of PBZ, and Fran Mihaljevic is 2 million kunas in shares in Croatia's insurance. Money leaks everywhere but where it should be paid by healthcare professionals, doctors, medical staff. Minister Beroš, I must say, you have brought simple unrest into Croatian citizens when you stated that you have issued a warrant for the mobilization of the entire health care sector, and you have already done so before, and then you have justified your sentence as an attempt to motivate them. Then, you said here that you weren't responsible for the hospital work and the salary billing. So it is clear to all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia that you are not the one who calculates the salaries, you do not understand, but who is responsible for this, for the whole health system, you are responsible. You are responsible for costing 8% less of the healthcare funds in the 2021 RH budget if this is in the 2020 budget. You're responsible because you haven't convinced the Prime Minister that health care is the most important thing today. Once again, it is necessary to immediately pay off all overtime and money earned, doctors do not work only now in the circumstances of Covid, they are not only dealing with Covid patients and what needs to be reorganised so that patients can be taken care of, so they should finally make that strategy because doctors in hospitals who are overloaded can no longer endure the pressure that is on them. Then it reflects on the patients themselves. What's my question about psychological help for these doctors and medical staff who watch people who die every day? What is further, reduce all costs that are not necessarily necessary and reroute resources to combat pandemics. We've witnessed it being cadred in Croatian hospitals. Is it so hard to admit that in a crisis like this doctors cannot adequately fight with the management of a system that has been in the collapse for years. And that's how it is. The hospital's head needs to be brought by competent people who will, above all, try to bring their economic, economic and management skills to the hospital's financial order. Where's the debt-paying strategy for large-scale drugs? It is still a bitter taste of the situation when wholesalers blackmailed the entire health system with the lives of Croatian citizens. Have you produced any strategy on how to manage money in the health system so that this system is less burdened with debt? Our doctors and medical staff deserved treatment worthy of their knowledge and their victims, not to be hunted and located as angry dogs just because they dared to say that the system didn't work, and we're all aware that it didn't work. It could happen to us that a few thousand more go abroad where they're wanted and paid for their work. Then who's going to treat us? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25193	The next debate is individual Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25194	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, here's a lot that's already been said so far I'm going to try to limit my intervention to what I see important, and what's not yet said. Namely, this government, especially the Civil Protection Staff, has lost citizens' trust, has lost credibility, but lost these two because of its inconsistency. And I'll tell you exactly what I mean. He lost his trust, so the citizens no longer know who to listen to, or who to give them directions to. There are so many noises in the information channels, these canals are neither standardised nor there are people who instill trust in communicating what they need to do in the event of Covid infection. Here, I'll admit it myself after I'm positive for Covid, I had to Google for information first in order to inform myself what my next steps were except of course to the doctor. He lost credibility because he makes decisions primarily towards the day-to-day political situation and what corresponds to the ruling party at a given time. In fact, it is very difficult to take the impression that in both cases the more difficult lockdowns were declared only when the HDZ elections passed, so internally or suddenly, measures were eased just as parliamentary elections were approaching, or when the ruling party was responding, etc. There's already a joke that's going around social networks that tells us how to solve the Covid crisis, so let's call the election and then the virus disappears. Thus, it already says enough how many decisions are made on a crisis consistent with the day-to-day political situation of individuals or individual parties. And ultimately consistency in the implementation of those decisions that are finally made. Because colleagues and colleagues what's worth everything isn't worth it, like for the church. And until people are allowed to gather in homes, so private spaces, public spaces, etc., in churches they can. And may I ask you purely rhetorically does this mean that the church won't get infected? Of course he will. What applies to others does not apply to shopping centres, so there are no restrictions on the number of visitors, etc. There are in the shops, though, but not the mall itself. I repeat the rhetorical question again, does this mean that people won't get infected, say, in a neighborhood store or at a private gathering, but look at the wonders at the shopping mall really won't. So, a whole series of inconsistencies and inconsistencies in the conduct of decisions which, of course, destroys both authority and reputation but also trust in institutions that should protect us from this monster. And finally, what I've heard a little bit about today, even though we're actually discussing the state of the system right now, are the consequences of the Covid crisis. In fact, our health system wasn't the most brilliant before the crisis, and we talked about it many times, repeatedly warned, and after the crisis, after all that happened to us, it will surely be even worse. The truth is, we couldn't expect this pandemic, the truth is that we couldn't plan accordingly, we're not the only ones here, but what we can do now, and we're not planning to do it effectively, how we're going to deal with the crisis and how we're going to deal with the consequences of the crisis. For example, this morning we discussed oncology patients many of whom did not have adequate care and access to health services due to pandemics. The most common objective reasons, there were subjective, though I know some firsthand, but that's aside. So they didn't have access to worry. Many who doubted or had to go to tests to determine their possible existence could not have done so because of the pandemic. So the system will be even more loaded after the pandemic passes. We don't know what the consequences will still be for those who have been or have been over Covid, and we also don't know how much the pressure will actually cost the system itself. I fear that the system remains exclusively because of the enthusiasts, because of the people who work in it, because of those who are committed to their work, not the systematic planning of intervention of the state or ministry or what they should do. So I think it is important to discuss this in the Croatian Parliament in front of the Croatian public, but also to hear answers to questions about the future as I have said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25195	The next debate on behalf of the promoter, distinguished representative Andreja Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25196	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I'd like to say one more thing about equipment and respirators. There were as many as 910, 910 respirators in the Republic of Croatia, now we've heard there are many more. However, when you are in the field at the hospital, when you have several severely ill patients who need support for invasive ventilation, when your fellow intensiveist tells you to choose among those few who can receive intensification or in another hospital four patients, and two free respirators, then when you are doing this is a big problem. And it's totally true, it really happened. You do not have enough intensity, you do not have enough respirator connections, the respirator is tied to the hospital location of the hospital bed. There was no respirator available at any time or trained doctors. It went into the emergency supply of respirators in the county, donations were made by entrepreneurs and citizens, and I really thank them all. The respirators are both buying cities and county, something of course came from the ministry. And that's why now and this larger number brought out by the minister. However, we believe that there is a lack of timely coordination and a network of respirator distribution and the urgent respirator rerouting from one hospital to another as necessary, I stress the practice has shown that this was not the case. Then, the contact tracking system also now does not fully function in this escalation. People keep their contacts secret, they're afraid for work, now there's not enough epidemiologists and it's recently activated medical students who help epidemiologists, but we still think everything could have happened before. When I was talking about activation, the full activation of the civil protection system, why could not these members of the civil protection system be hired to assist in non-medical affairs in hospitals or to be involved in the activities of monitoring and informing the contacts of the infected. There's something else I'd like you to ask us again to explain. Whether it is included in the total number of infected who are seen every day in the report of the Staff, only the number tested with PSR tests or also antigens. Because we're a little confused. Let's say in my county, the mayor says they count each other, so that's why we have a large number of patients. Although it's being denied by a full hospital and a hotel park where we put patients. But let's make one of the reasons possible, too. But the question is, is that how everyone in Croatia counts? If not all of them, it means that there is also a imbalance in the work of local and national headquarters and that the quality of the data on the infected is not credible. And here's another testimony from the family doctor. They say the the thesis that the health system is not ahead of collapse is not standing. Multiple phone calls to the hospital to arrange patient accommodation. Patients are being referred to the hospital because the number of places is limited. It is proposed to doctors of family medicine that radiological and laboratory diagnostics are used with exceptional conditions, etc. What do you think it's like to work under these conditions? How is it recommended for doctors in hospitals who have to return many patients home, because it is simply not only recommended to take them hard, but there is not enough room and these can get worse. So the health care staff is maximumly engaged in emergency services, isolation departments, covid departments with us and in Hotel Park. And of course the covid is delayed by the examinations and tests. Some will get worse, some will be late diagnosed with malignancies, and I have to pass on the indignation of the doctor when we actually saw that there was a call from HZZO that unsatisfactory patients are suing doctors if they can't get a favor, and that is the least of our fault. And I'd like one more thing if you could talk to us. So it's a matter of cost-benefit analysis. That's what we kept saying. We kept looking for answers. We didn't get it from the National Staff, not from the Resort Ministry or the Government. On the one hand, you have the cost of antigen and PSR tests. Money spent on respirators' protective equipment. On the other hand, you have a huge number of sick and dead who do not have their own price, the economic consequences resulting from this situation, and we believe that mass testing is still a cheaper alternative to complete closure, i.e. the escalation of the epidemic. And it is not true that Slovakia had no results. So within a short time, they tested half the population practically isolated 26,000 positive antigen tests for one weekend. Why don't we use a model like that?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25197	We have one replica, Agent Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25198	Well, colleagues, you're a lot of principles. I'd only go back to one thing. So, the existence of infrastructure, the existence of equipment, the existence of people who are trained to work with that equipment. That's a big problem, that's what I was talking about, that actually the system of life is only held by enthusiasts and people who work in it, and then on the other hand we have a relationship of a state that doesn't even want to pay off any rewards, or even the minimum ones that would be at least their only benefit actually all of that sacrificial work and exposure to themselves constantly risk helping others. And this is the second question that... I'm counting on the system, and not only the doctors, but also the patients. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] So, how will they suffer eventually for all this. Unfortunately, many will either die or develop difficult clinical images that will then be treated by the same system that is overloaded.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25199	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25200	Well, here I think I talked about all of this in my presentations. It's been debated so far. So there is certainly a problem with the adequate education of those experts who can work on these invasive ventilation support systems. The problem is that it wasn't in time that education started for all those who could work on these sophisticated appliances. And all the things you mentioned that here and the patients will feel the consequences of this corona crisis, unfortunately, we'll just see what's going to happen. But we're all gonna have to push our strengths. You said nice things to the health care workers, so health care and health care in the welfare system, etc., including education, etc. I think we're all carrying a lot of weight on our backs.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25201	Okay. Thank you. Here we have two MPs now dropped out, so Celic and Ivanovic. The next representative is Willy Matula. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25202	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Minister Beroš, after all this is said to me now in this late night watch, at a time when your fellow doctors, doctors and doctors and healthcare professionals and workers who are used to shifts of 12 hours I am convinced that many are watching this because they cannot sleep because there is no possibility at all after all that is happening now and you know it very well. However, you have the greatest political responsibility in this regard. But I have no idea you're really aware of that. This morning, it was easy to talk with all the praises about strategy and how it would be thirty years from now. But this is about now. It's just that you and your closest colleagues didn't bring it in on time. Capak, don't make a decision that this closure was necessary, that it happened on time. If it had happened two to three weeks earlier, it could have happened. If that's what they told me, and they expected it, and they followed it all, because people are watching, people are reading, people are reading this data that your fellow doctors are bringing to you. And here it is now about your personal and professional and moral and political and in the extreme line of human responsibility. You don't have the guts to generate this whole nightmare, which is Prime Minister Plenkovic, you who really serve him as a complete mask, that just as a mask it's a good metaphor. You serve him because he does not make any decision, neither does he confirm your reports, nor does he take them into consideration. He doesn't even refuse them. Nothing! What he's telling you, or your boss Bozinović, you know that. We don't know that. But you made a decision because he doesn't have that authority and says at this point people can't get you 10,000, they can't, it can't happen. If he had the authority and had the strength and you had the authority you had, you had him, in the spring you had him because you came after an arrogant minister and you really changed things by your own way and communication. However, you and your closest associates, especially Mr. Capak, who brought a representative here after all, and so disrespected an expert who has been working as an epidemiologist for 35 years. No, he came here to fill this miserable majority of one man at the beginning of this term. And when it comes to you then completely angry Mayor Cacic rightly then of course everything, everything as he says it's just one vote. And you could do the only thing at this point, that all of these doctors because they're also professional and they said it all. Find the strength inside you and make the right gesture, because the other one you can't. And in this way you will expose the prime minister completely out and finally be responsible because this crisis is long. And there could be at least a little drop to be a break for both the economy and the doctors, for doctors. These big numbers that are now growing you know very well that they're going to your responsibility. And this economic additional crisis is going on your responsibility, you and your closest associates. Resign that is the power you can do. That's the answer you can do. It's an act of responsibility. There are people who can do that.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25203	Here you go. Replica Erik Fabianic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25204	Dear fellow Matula, I must openly tell you that I disagree with you. You're saying there's no strategy related to this health care system. I think there's a strategy, and I'll tell you how it exists. Namely, the health care system was exhausted both in the crisis and before this pandemic. With this pandemic and after it, our public health system will be so exhausted that everyone will be eager to be privatized.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25205	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25206	And I simply understand your irony and this turn of yours. I just don't want to believe it, because across Europe it's showing that right where there's a public health system, that's the only thing that's there that's as much as they're carrying. There's no doubt about it at all. However, I continue to argue that the responsibility in this case is exclusively on you and that it is possible after that to make a turn and the same fellow scientists who have allowed themselves to be the same around the prime minister in one world and to say something to him and not speak to him in time. And when they said something, they were defiled and thrown out like that, they were grieved in the worst way. And there's new advice to be made. People will organize themselves because they have to, because this will take time.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25207	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Nikola Baradic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25208	I would like to thank the Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the distinguished ministers with an associate, respected colleagues and colleagues. Now that we're here tonight at these late hours, we're discussing the state of the system, I'm going to give this debate an example from my own experience, not a story from the media, as I've heard from most colleagues tonight. Reading this interpretation, I imagined my colleagues and colleagues, nurses and technicians at the covid departments throughout Croatia who have been caring for patients for more than eight months daily. In particular, I imagine their reaction when you hear a sentence as I quote them, departments in chaos, and they will bring their five minutes closer to you all as the fight against the health system against the pandemic and patient care looks firsthand. In March 2020, my ORL department became a covid department. The drugs, materials, the O.R. has all been moved to second place with the valuable hands of my colleagues and colleagues. The empty ORL department rooms were soon filled with new equipment for COVID patients so new monitors, defibrillators, pulse oxymeters, GUK apparatus and other medical equipment were introduced. We've been practicing stripping and clothing suits and we've made clean and unclean zones and so much more that it can't stop in these five minutes. Soon we had our first patient's appointment in the department, and after a while 30 of them. We're on shift for 12 hours, we're putting on protective gear, and we're going into the rooms. You can only spend 4 hours in protective equipment, and after that we change. I don't know if you can even imagine patients lying in bed because they're suffering from a new virus that is very little known, they have a temperature, they're connected to oxygen and they see us masked in front of them? We're their family then, their friend, their sister, everything. They're looking for our comforting word and the grip of the hand. They ask you to devote yourself to them, talk to them, call their family on a video call because they may be old and can't use cell phones. I don't know if you can imagine that the most common blood extraction that normally takes five minutes under normal conditions in the COVID section with three pairs of gloves lasts much longer? I don't know. Can you imagine how hard it is to move in protective gear while all the fog under your glasses and visors? You're hot. You must not touch because any false touch or movement can endanger you. Do you know how difficult it is to give a patient everything he needs under such conditions? And, yes, no one has been cut off for anything. No one's left unsettled, hungry, no therapy, and no comforting conversation. No colleague of mine and a colleague would allow it. None of us would have left without giving the patient the care he needed. True, it used to be six hours instead of four hours of our stay in the rooms, but nothing was ever difficult for us, either. We don't watch the clock. We're not looking at whether we ate, chicken and we're hot. At that point, you don't think about it, because the only priority is patients. The government of the Republic of Croatia headed by Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic has chosen a strategy against COVID, which is that it is rational and adequate. Decisions taken at the level of the Government and the Staff are proportionate to what is currently happening and such a continuation of the fight against pandemic will be further pandemics that have covered the whole world. And then after everything we've been through, we read in Interpellation that there's a lack of organization, equipment, medications, etc. in hospitals. I must admit that it is an insult to all those who do their job with honor and integrity in health institutions, who work daily to organize shifts in this pandemic and contribute to the first line of fight against the pandemic. As a young person and a nurse who has the honour of speaking in the Croatian Parliament tonight, I appeal that we do not respect the valuable work of our medical professionals, that there is no spread of panic and endangers the stability of the health system, which is obviously the ultimate goal of this opposition initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25209	Enough replicas. The first is the distinguished representative Nada Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25210	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear fellow Members, thank you for this debate for sharing with us this kind of honest and new experience, which, of course, we didn't get a chance to hear in these discussions. I will still take the opportunity to thank your colleagues for your dedicated work as you have described. And since you're a nurse who worked in the department, I'll ask you first. Do you think, as was the case in the earlier debate, that you people in the healthcare system don't need any words of praise in a public space like this? I think you should and that it's always good to hear and that you have a rare opportunity in this public space to be praised. And secondly, what was the hardest thing for you to do with a COVID patient?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25211	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25212	Thank you. Thank you, colleagues, for the replica. To me personally, and I guess to other colleagues and colleagues, it was actually the biggest problem to move around in protective equipment because the job itself is very tangible. So you need to feel the vein, and you have 3 pairs of gloves on you. So it's very, very hard. It's also difficult, and that protocol itself when you leave the department, so you need to beam in the fresh air for 20 minutes. So, rain, storm, sun, minus 5 degrees you have to be out in one-time clothing, which is really, really hard.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25213	The next replica, distinguished representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25214	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Baradic, you asked yourself several times in your debate whether our colleagues on the other hand knew. Of course they knew and we heard what they knew and they always knew everything from day one to day and it's a shame to keep them in the congregation when they know everything. But I'm going to ask you, given that they've found that during these few months there was absolutely no education in particular in summer months for exactly like you were in that hospital and that you didn't learn anything and that the health system absolutely took care of anything other than how we cared about elections and how to win and, of course, we're all important and that we're basically using it to be in power today. Well, you came from that system, you have experience, so tell these gentlemen what they know if we had that. whether this system has had education over the past few months, because they claim it was not there.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25215	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25216	Thank you. Of course there was an education. But as far as the education of health care professionals is concerned, there's only one thing I'd like to point out. Am I like a nurse in the O.R., for example? my workplace was educated the moment I learned from my book the instruments in the set or when I did a number of operations with a doctor? I think everyone who works in the healthcare system should be clear when I'm well-educated enough. So it's very hard to educate someone in empty rooms. It's best educated when there are patients, unfortunately, but in the health system it's like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25217	The next replica is the esteemed representative Sandra Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25218	Dear colleagues, what you were saying, you were saying exclusively and you were not saying, but reading as a member of the HDZ, not as a nurse anymore. Because if you had spoken as a nurse, you wouldn't have said to any of us here what you said, which is that today we have spoken negatively of medical workers and workers in any way in any way, because we have been stressing all along that they are the ones on the first line of defense that we thank and that the Government has not created a sufficiently good framework for crisis management. Because if it wasn't for six medical associations to sign an appeal that was looking for the same thing we're looking for today. It's nothing more than that. So, you disagree with your colleagues and colleagues from the medical profession. but of course only with colleagues and colleagues from the constituency benches. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25219	We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, please hold. Dear Representative Nada Murganic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25220	Thank you. Article 238 has been injured. I don't know how she lets her colleague tell our counsel if she wasn't a nurse, because if she was a nurse, she wouldn't say what she was saying.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25221	Please don't be nervous! So it was a replica. You have a warning. Wait a minute. Councilwoman Bencic, here's a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25222	The violation of Rules of Procedure 238 because you spoke very harshly to me and yet falsely accused me of saying something I didn't say. I said that a colleague was present today as a member of the HDZ, not as a nurse. So, she was acting as a parliamentary representative. I didn't say she wasn't a nurse, she's a nurse, and she'll be a nurse forever, and now she's a temporary parliamentary representative. I said her speech was motivated politically, because if she hadn't joined me, she would have... [[You can't hear the phone.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25223	You have a warning, because this wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, pals. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25224	Thank you. Dear colleague Bencic, I have been a proud member of the Croatian Democratic Community for 12 years. I have no intention of changing the name of any party or club. That's the first one. And secondly, you stated in your interpretation that the suits were in chaos. A lack of organisation of medications, equipment and the like. I gave you an example from my own experience that the department I worked in wasn't in any of the chaos that you're suggesting here.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25225	The next replica, the esteemed representative of Angelko Strick.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25226	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues have one national, says "it is easy to be a general after the battle". That's what happened after the Homeland War. Everyone knew more about the war than the ones involved. Those who watched the TV bar if they had watched the Croatian programme would have known far more about the Homeland War and Croatian defenders. That's how it is here today. Why aren't the measurements two weeks ago? After that, why aren't they a month later? What's the measure? What's the store for? What's the coffee shop for? Restaurants? Sweets? I guess there's someone who's worried about it and knows when they're going to introduce what measures. You debated here today firsthand. The only question you didn't ask me was why, why me, why my colleagues. I congratulate you on that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25227	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25228	Here's my thanks, fellow Striker. I don't have much to add. There were some, and then there were some today who were pulling out. So I'm ready to offer myself for the first line of battle against the pandemic and I'm proud of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25229	The next replica, the esteemed representative of Damir Habian.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25230	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, dear colleague Baradic. And here's the thing I'm actually joining up with is what my colleagues on this side of the assembly said that you gave this testimony that I think after these five and a half hours we've been listening to and in some way we see the difference between theories, we see the difference between practice. What I'm going to get, I'm sorry that my colleague Bencic isn't here. So here's the fact again if someone is a member of a party, so in this HDZ case, does that bother you whether it means that if someone is a HDZ member can't be a nurse? Does that mean he can't? That's what we had on the Civil Protection Command. After someone said he was a proud HDZ member, there was a problem for some here on this side of the assembly. I really don't understand what that means? They're supposed to be SDP, so they're good nurses, if HDZ aren't good nurses? That's how we're gonna judge. It's a completely missed way of thinking.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25231	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25232	I'd like to thank my colleague, Habian. It's easy for me for my colleagues in the Parliament to say whether or not I'm a member of a party. My patients don't care if I'm a member of any party or anything else.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25233	The next replica, the esteemed representative Goran Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25234	Thank you very much, Vice President. Ministers, here are two reasons why I've raised the line. First, to justify what I do to a woman in half two more in the Croatian Parliament, and the second part is to thank this beautiful man who sits here, Mr. Willy Beros, a man who shows in the last eight months that in the responsible time, a man who has grown up to the function he is acting. We need such people, such people need Croatia. They need women like Nicole who live this crown every day, and we come here and we give ourselves the right to be the smartest, to know everything, and in fact most of us have no contact with the crown. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25235	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25236	Thank you. Well, that's actually what prompted me to do this debate since the whole afternoon and the past month and over, we've been hearing about the coronary virus from people who've never worn a protective suit in their lives and entered the infected patient.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25237	The next replica is the esteemed representative Andreja Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25238	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, you've described your assignment nicely, your involvement as a nurse. It's similar in other hospitals. So none of us healthcare professionals have any doctors, and since there is a doctor here today, any nurses will not allow themselves not to leave his heart on the ground for his patient. But you're saying you haven't noticed the chaos in the departments, the lack of equipment, the lack of medication, as we can speak in the Interpellation. And I'm going to tell you now what's the difference between my hospital and yours I assume you're from Sibenik, if I'm right. So, in our hospital for years, even though we're even bigger hospitals than yours, we get a few million kunas a month less limit and then we don't have enough for drugs, we don't have enough for equipment. [[Intrudica Baradić: Zadar.]] The County must be involved in order to ensure donations, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25239	Time. Replication response. You have the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25240	Thank you. So here's what you have the right to speak for your hospital and for the sake of your department and your experience in your department, so I have the right to speak about the department and the hospital where I work. Is that some mistake I said was in my department? I don't know what... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25241	Please don't answer from the bench. The next replica is the distinguished representative Maja Grba Bujevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25242	Dear colleagues, we've solved education. So education you had. Have you ever noticed in your department working with those patients that you lack protective equipment, that you lack medication, that you lack anything you needed to provide proper care? I also commend you for your argument to have denied all the opposition and for showing how useless this Interpellation is. ... Yeah, it's 1 and 40. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25243	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25244	Thank you. I thank my colleagues for the replica. Here's what I said about this situation we didn't have that condition that we didn't have the equipment or the drugs, that someone else was hungry. We had breakfast, lunch and dinner with the wine on the second floor. That wasn't the problem either. They were all fed. Everyone got the care they needed. Everyone got their meds they were supposed to get.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25245	The next replica is the esteemed representative of the Domagoj Story.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25246	Dear colleagues, I'm sure we all appreciate our health care workers, but we're not here today because of them. Today we're talking about the system. Of the 220 countries and territories of the world, Croatia is unfortunately 32, given the number of inhabitants 32 per number of COVID deceased and, unfortunately, 220 countries and territories of the world 17. So we're talking about the system, about how the system works.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25247	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25248	Thank you. Here, so I'd invite you this way to enlighten all the people together for all those who still think that maybe the virus doesn't exist and that there are unnecessary measures and that you shouldn't wear a mask. We should be the first to tell people from this honorable home how all this is necessary and how the virus really is dangerous and how we should prevent it in all the best ways we know it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25249	The next replica Mirela Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25250	You said in your statement that you disagreed with the Interpellation because it said it was a lack of medication, medical equipment, food, etc. As a parliamentary representative, you should know that in October, wholesale drugs suspended the delivery of drugs to 33 hospitals. I wonder if you think they're lying to your colleagues and your fellow doctors, specifically this colleague from the KB Dubrava who wrote this letter about the lack of everything I stated? Is he lying to the assistant dr. Bozo Radic, the quality assistant who resigned? Do hospital directors lie or lie to Prime Minister Plenkovic, who, precisely because of his debt to large-scale drugs and not delivering drugs to these hospitals, had to install a larger amount of health care funds into the budget rebalance? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25251	Thank you. Dear colleague Ahmetovic, I am not an employee of KB Dubrava. I had nothing to do with KB Dubrav. I don't intend to comment on them. But I will comment on you and thank you for your replica. So, my colleague Ahmetovic, you are not even a month ago, I read this article, which said that the health system has fallen apart and that I quote it as "the bottom". You stated in the same article that we patients have nothing to offer. This way I really ask you to stop insulting all those who leave your families and go on day and night shifts at the hospital, because we have patients to offer, all that is necessary for their care.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25252	Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25253	Thank you very much. The Rules of Procedure of the Court of Justice of the European Union, of the one part, and of the other part, My colleagues, you quoted me in the section I made. At the same time, you insulted not only me, but all the doctors from KB Dubrava who precisely because of the problem I interpreted in public appearances pointed to all the problems and to the bottom of Croatian health care. As their colleague, you can be ashamed not to stand by them and not support them.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25254	You are, this wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure. This is your third warning, and I'm giving you a restraining order until the debate is over. Next breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you are, Maja Bujevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25255	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, I thank you for this warning you gave to your colleague because she really hurt Article 238. Insulting the MP and all of us here.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25256	That's right. That was an insult. Here's Agent Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25257	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague of Ahmetovic injured Article 238. The Rules of Procedure are rudely insulting both the colleague and all of us in HDZ. There's a saying that it's better to keep quiet and be considered stupid than to talk and... I doubt it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25258	I agree it's a breach of the Rules of Procedure. The next debate is the distinguished representative Anka Mrak-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25259	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I guess I left a little early. The Honorable Minister with an associate. So this is an interpretation of the preparation of the government's work system related to the coronary epidemic of the virus. At no time was this an interpretation of employees' work. Moreover, on several occasions we have made it clear and we have made it clear to all the employees, doctors and sisters and technicians and all the others who work in hospitals to make this terrible nemaniac I call it, indeed to fight it. And we need to make that clear. And you don't have to turn it into something else. The same way in the interpretation we pointed to two facts. One fact is about the preparation of the system, and another fact is about the availability of healthcare for all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. When it comes to the preparation of the system, we must make it clear that the reactions and comments of hundreds of doctors, nurses, technicians and all others who work in hospitals, respected professionals and people dedicated to our work have shown that in that part of what we claim to be absolutely right, that the system has not been prepared, that people have not been prepared, that they did not know what is expected of them or where and when they will have to do, nor have they been able to give new knowledge in time for new circumstances. They simply threw themselves into the wrinkled water and let themselves be found alone in that wrinkled water. The second major concern we have expressed in this interpretation is the availability of health care for all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. And we wondered what happened to prevention, what happened to diagnostics, what happened to the treatment of all those who needed it and not covid positive. The system was put into a cold drive or started working in a very limited range. There was an appointment, an extension of the waiting list, sending to other hospitals that were absolutely not prepared to receive new patients, and that was reality. Why did we decide to interpret it? So HDZ can say no? So to discuss now I don't know we started 8.9 p.m. I'm kind of late, too, and I'm not really myself, so I apologize if I make any mistakes or repeat myself. You think that's why we started this? Just so you're here by the hour of the evening or the HDZ tells us so we won't accept that interpretation. So we knew you wouldn't accept it. But where is the place to discuss the preparation of the Coronation System? The Croatian Parliament. So, on several occasions, the prime minister said that the Chief of Staff was making decisions, but that all of this in his cabinet was defined and it was seen what it was about. So that's what you and I and anyone else heard. I'm sorry that Minister Berosh, I'm really sorry at human level that he's here now and together with us because I feel like after, or maybe he's cheating on me, but it's certainly not easy for him and it's hard for him to get over the Corona. But it's just like that. So, why did we decide? We've made up our minds and you know it. We all praise and say the first measures, ignorance, misunderstanding, something new. We accepted all the options, as much as I am one of those who was proud to see Croatia deal well with it. And then you told us all the time that the fall was coming, that it was going to be hard, that we had to prepare for that second wave, that maybe the third wave was coming. But we didn't see anything happen in the summer. So I have to remind you and you know it well, in the spring when we were 70, 80, 90 people, that was terrible for us. Suddenly, the numbers go 1,000, two, two and a half, but nothing happens. And what we hear all the time, we hear people who are in the system saying my people don't work. Well, we didn't write and we were outside the hospital in Dubrava and we claimed that the patients were hungry. Well, we weren't patients who really testified there that they didn't have any food, that they were in the halls. That's what happened. And this interpretation absolutely makes sense. This is the place to discuss it. This is where we need to hear all the arguments and discuss them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25260	Thank you. The next individual debate is a distinguished representative called Brumnic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25261	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, respected ministers, respected colleagues and colleagues, respected counterparts Nikola Baradic. I must admit, when I listened to you, things rang in my ear like that. The truth is, I can't understand how a man feels when he wakes up in the morning, kisses a child and goes to work in the covid department. And I admire him. I sincerely admire him. And I think from this place you should tell all the doctors, nurses one big thank you for what they're doing. But here is no question whether they're doing their job well, because I'm absolutely sure that many of us here wouldn't be if they weren't doing their job well. They're doing a good job. The question arises whether the system that should have allowed them to do their job was well complex. Today, the minister answered my question that he agrees with the fact that some things were not quite worked out properly. And that's the question that put this interpretation in place. This interpretation was in fact the only way that today for the first time in nine months before the government someone told the citizens of the Republic of Croatia what and how and why it works. First time! Not once has this government gone public and said let's go do it, that, that, that, that, that, that, that. We want to do it, that and that. See what Merkel did in Germany? That's exactly what I'm She went out in front of her citizens, that's all. She went out in front of her citizens. The first time she got information about the covid and brought out everything she knew and demanded the trust of the citizens, that those measures they prescribed were respected. And she trusted her citizens and justified it. If you want to compare yourself with someone, then I guess you're comparing yourself to better than yourself, because every time I try to watch something work, then I look at the rule of that Germany. And in that Germany, the situation is more than twice as good as in Croatia. Now we can ask ourselves why? So our question should be why is the situation in Germany twice as good as in Croatia? There's probably something about how politics is run in Germany, there's probably something about what the health system is like in Germany, and there's probably something about how much the confidence of the citizens of Germany is in those who run them. And that's the key problem. The key problem of this country today and this covid situation in the fact that citizens don't believe those who lead them. This is the first time in nine months we've heard anything about it. Do you think that's normal? You were a minister. You were the only one throwing something out of the bench. I don't want any more. I think I've said a lot in my replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25262	We have one replica of the distinguished representative Nada Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25263	Thank you. This is not how I meant to replicate to you, but since I have a special honor to have you all the time looking at me and talking to me. Well, I agree that a colleague is certainly better to watch. [[Intruder Brumnić: I did not spend all my time with you, but you fell into my frame.]] I think I have to repeat once again to you the idea that citizens have no confidence in either the Government or the Staff. They've got statistics on it, and they're talking about research that we obviously all believe. And well here's the election that was in the seven months that confirmed it. What you want all the time to pass on this mistrust to the citizens, and it's all you do over and over, and that's the only way you start and finish and your debates and your replicas will be in vain because people believe both the Staff and the Government, and they've shown it in the elections. And they trust HDZ unlike all these parties here. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25264	Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25265	The fact that as many citizens believe the Staff, as much as they trust this government, let the citizens themselves evaluate it after this debate. I don't have a problem with that. The only thing I'm sure of is that this government trusts the PR profession and that this government makes measures and decisions when they tell them PR research, and that's even sadder than what I was saying earlier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25266	You have another replica. You have another replica of your colleague. Representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25267	Thank you very much, colleague Brumnic. So, listening to my colleague's argument before you, I don't know if I live in some parallel universe or listening to my colleague Murganic. So, it's enough to get out on the street and ask people what they think, it's enough to go to the hospital to see what's going on. And then I wonder if I might live in a parallel universe when people employees and those who worked in covid departments say things differently. Am I wrong when I go as a patient to, say, an internal in KBC Osijek where your noise falls off the ceiling? Those are great conditions, for example. Or cardiology where the toilets swim in your urine. So these weren't the conditions of a decent man, a decent patient, and then a decent employee, not even before this pandemic. And once again I stress this system exists only because of the Herculean efforts of the people who work in it and who are enthusiastic. That's all.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25268	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25269	I agreed with this last one the moment I started this debate, and with seeing my colleague, I can't comment on her seeing it. I can comment on what I said today to the minister which is a problem to get to the doctor today, which is a problem today to achieve health care in another segment other than the crown. And the minister is aware of that. That's what he confirmed, so I have no dispute with what the minister was saying. And seeing how good the department looks, I mean, that's what she sees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25270	Next debate on behalf of the promoter, distinguished representative Eric Fabianic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25271	Dear Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. What our colleague said was a respected representative who works with COVID patients, and I listened very carefully, and it really touched me, and it's good for her and it's good for her and it works in ideal conditions, which is also very, very good. And with all these ideal conditions, he's been offering to work with COVID patients. However, could we have heard that debate at all if it hadn't been for this Interpol? I don't mind. Some colleagues are bothered that it hasn't been transferred, which is too late, and it's been up all night. I personally don't mind, considering we have modern technologies today. Therefore, the footage of who said what we'll be able to hear, and we'll be able to hear a colleague from HDZ working with patients. Therefore, the public will hear what is said. I'm glad she's working in good conditions, too. I wish I had a nurse like that in every department of the River KBC. The last time I was lying there was my pillow, my pillow was there, but there was no pillow. The pillowcases were no, so the pillowcase was filled with pillowcases and it was my pillow. The millions that the county gives the hospital to which the founder of the Republic of Croatia would not, could, could. And my colleague, Boric, I suppose, also had a chance to be at that clinic hospital center. I would really like what is happening in our colleague's department to happen in all departments throughout Croatia. We could visit the operating halls together in the old river building. Namely, but I already said that and mentioned it in my debate. What we can thank for having Rijeka's health has come from Yugoslav self-dependence, from the Kingdom of SHS and from the Kingdom of Austro-Hungarian. But we didn't meet here for that. Interpletion isn't bad. Now we have seen that this is not evil at all because that way we can also sensitize public opinion on what the problems are. And we can really talk argumentally. Here, by accident yesterday, because of what was requested yesterday, the Baxter affair was excavated 20 years ago. I went to check again, and I was told that it was more than one hospital. No, it was just one thing. The verba volunteer script manent, it's all recorded, everything will be known, everything will be heard who said what and who did what. Although some rhetoric, unfortunately, some colleagues are extremely sad. Here today, on the anniversary of Tudjman's death, his soul rests, and it turns out to me that you're inspired by his epithetism towards the opposition that was the cattle of a tiny tooth. I expect some colleagues to accuse me of eating little children if I continue like this. ... I know. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Okay, I'll fight you. But anyway, what's important is that we discuss it, at least every day. I don't have a problem with that. We'll sensitize public opinion. We'll explain to people that there are problems and that if there's an epidemic spreading that the health care system will certainly start firing as in every country. So do we have someone in the Zagreb Arena or not, or is the Arena empty? It's not. Let's see what we have to do next. But if we're going to be experiencing impediment as a distraction, not as a distraction to a particular problem, I don't mind. But there's one thing, I don't see there as a grace that a handful of signatures have been collected, so it's... it's been missed to have that Interpletion today, even tonight, even tonight. I can have one other thing, and it's unwarranted that we don't have to collect a total number of signatures, so then that legal deadline that sees the devil goes down just as pre-election activities for local elections begin. Well, if I were Jandrokovic, I'd do the same if you'd excuse me. You'd do the same. But let's not interpret it as some gift from the opposition, which is still what we would say is doing nothing but spreading panic in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25272	We have two replicas. The first is the distinguished representative of the Domagoj Story.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25273	Dear colleague, I have a replica for you. I agree with you that it's important to speak and discuss, and that's why this Interpletion is good. It's an interesting thing when we look at numbers. This Interpol was sent on November 13th. She's having a discussion about her now after a month. On November 13th, when it was sent to Croatia, 968 people died from COVID. In a month since the Interpletion was sent to this day when it is being debated today we have 2,000 420 deceased. He almost tripled his number. The moment this Interpol was sent a little less than a month ago, there were 78 thousand cases. Now on today we have 163,000. So in just a month, they doubled, or tripled numbers. That's what's most worrying.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25274	I have nothing to do with the medical profession. I'm not even an epidemiologist. We're a legislative body, or we're politicians. Mr. Berosh here is present as minister. He's from the profession because he's a doctor, I guess. Well, at least that's how I know. But at this point, he's a minister and the minister is a political function. So I can have one perception. I can listen to the profession, and I can read the newspaper. So we all make certain conclusions based on the information we have. I'm personally afraid that this sudden increase is also related to the announcement of the innkeeper's closure. Because that day, that Friday, I went through Zagreb among other things, and then I came to Rijeka in the evening and I saw that all the people were flocking to the cafes to have their last drink with their friends. Is that true? I don't know. I'm not from the profession, but it's possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25275	The next replica is the esteemed representative Katica Glamuzina.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25276	Thank you. A colleague when you mentioned Baxter to make one more thing clear. It was an affair that, yes, was an affair concerning the purchase of broken dialysis devices. The procurement was done by hospitals, not done by the ministry. It cost people their lives, 23 lives. Although the procurement was not done by the ministry of the ministry at the time, feeling morally responsible for the error in its system that cost people their lives was spotlessly resigned. Compared to that, we are now losing lives in thousands. Minister Beroš here today states: "I cannot manage 63 hospitals and be responsible for their work." Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25277	Listen, you've repeated one thing that's very important in that whole sentence. Moral act. Some things, but speaking of the Baxter affair, I will remind you of one thing, that at that time Darko Milinovic, a member of HDZ, was disappointed and slandered at that time, Deputy Minister Rajko Ostojic. After five years of suing Mr. Milinovic after his colleague, Ostojic received his satisfaction in court after five years. But the charge remained, the slander remained. And that's one way to ride in power.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25278	Next individual debate representative Miro Bulj. He's gone. He's losing. I can't have two on behalf of the proposer. Next individual debate, distinguished representative Katica Glamuzina. You're welcome, MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25279	Dear colleagues and colleagues, dear Minister, thank you for still being here with us. We've heard this argument several times tonight that the Staff enjoys great trust which was exactly in the spring. Today it's not true and it's easily verifiable information. Namely, the European Committee of the Regions, the European Union body has conducted research in all Member States on citizens' trust and the propos of the corona crisis in their governments and bodies responsible by the Government for the management of covid crises, which in Croatia would be our most potent headquarters. The survey found in the Republic of Croatia that 72% of the respondents showed mistrust with the Staff, I forgot to mention. The research took place a month and a half ago. I don't trust 72% and it started the other way around. I'm not talking about the personal rating of the Staff members. It would be too cruel. He said the minister here tonight, and I quote again, the strategy will one day be white and familiar to everyone. Why isn't she white today? Why don't we know her now? In crisis management, I guess we have some goals that should be to beat the virus, even though some people have already won that virus, I don't know what we're doing tonight. The strategy should give us some guidance and answers to the question of how to achieve it, and then the most important part are the measurable indicators that will tell us when we have achieved this goal, when our strategy has worked, which is the number of day-to-day, deceased or some other measurable indicator that will tell us that we have achieved the goal. We don't know that. Tell us when will we know? What's that number that's going to tell us here in order for us to succeed? Transparency is important, that it works transparently and would probably be easier to write a report more often that we asked for yesterday, because it is not a report of what counterpart Habian said yesterday by the daily presses that his words report on the current state of the epidemic. It's a report of the work of the epidemic and the virus, how successful the virus is. The Staff's report should be as successful as it is in its measures against the virus. You should tell us things the type of way in which the criteria are made, how effective these decisions are, how they are, how they are done, and how they provide protective material equipment. Because if we remember, there were some small affairs at the very beginning. I accept that this is an unusual situation in the whole world not only with us and that it wasn't easy to begin with. For this reason, the Command really had the same level of trust that today has a level of mistrust. But you can't claim that everything was okay. when we welcomed the virus in the world unprepared for months after months. Let's remember, the virus is called covid-19 because it appeared at age nineteen. He came to us in the 20th, in February, if I'm not mistaken. We had a little time to get ready after all. When there was an incredible confusion at first about wearing masks, if it's necessary, I'm going to ask my colleague Bulji to play the video again to remind us. And like I said, there was this little affair about who they get masks through. When the “Fight” takes place in public between doctors of general practice with the minister, when they reach out to concrete measures only when there is no other choice because the Arena is being filled, when health care professionals protest because not everyone at Sibenik Hospital with counterpart Nikolina, some people still lack material and say so publicly. When it comes to national propagating flu vaccination recommendations, and then not providing enough vaccines, you can't claim that everything is ok. It's not okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25280	The next debate is on behalf of the promoter, the distinguished representative Dalia Oreskovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25281	Honored Chairman, fellow MPs and MPs. So, not that the Government and the Staff deserve a crisis management unit and in the fight against the Coronal Virus because of all the events during this fall, but you HDZ colleagues deserve a clean logic and logical thinking unit. That's what she's talking about and testifying to what her colleague, Nicolan, was saying. Says one department that wasn't in chaos is your excuse for everything that's going on in the system. No, that's wrong. Because one department that, if it wasn't in chaos, is not proof that the whole system wasn't in chaos at the same time and that most of the other departments didn't have the problems that this one was talking about. ... I'll get to that now. [[You can't hear it.]] If only there was a mistake in logical thinking your biggest mistake, no, it wasn't. Your biggest mistake is next, now I'll explain it to you. Mr. Bacic often tells me that I am in political diapers and that I have ruined the entire political scene, and I will tell you what the HDZ has done to Croatia. Because the doctor's view only respects those of HDZ doctors. Under the views of epidemiologists, only those who have a HDZ membership card are respected. The opinion of nurses and other staff also respects only those who have a HDZ membership card. For example, what others say that they are not, and also have their own colleges, their profession and their own knowledge. He says HUBOL, for example, the first thing he says to you is that at the Medical Faculty, the subject of political blurry of reality is not being taught. He also said that the system of monitoring contacts and determining epidemiological measures has completely fallen apart. They also say that there is no systematic implementation of isolation and isolation, and that the result is the free spread of the virus in the population and that the reason is that there are no active and educated people who would help epidemiologists in time. Then they say that the testing system has reached its maximum of human and technical opportunities, to order citizens for testing with a delay of several days, and results are expected for up to five days. The reason is that it is not initially provided and organised a wide network of testing throughout Croatia. The minister himself confessed today. Furthermore, the hospital facilities in which they are being treated became ill before filling their capacities. Furthermore, there are no written criteria of the Ministry of Health according to which patients will be placed on the respirator when and if there are no more staff or apparatus. They're still saying. The only way to prevent the failure of a hospital system that will not be able to take care of no covid, but also the covid of patients is to reduce the inflow of covid patients. The measures should be taken immediately. The way measures are considered depends on the situation, doctors say he has not shown success so far. And the daily deaths of over 50 citizens oblige us to change our approach. That's what doctors who don't have HDZ membership cards say. They also say that it is necessary to communicate clearly with citizens what is actually the state of the epidemic and the calming message that the system is far from collapse is simply not true. Most directors of health institutions say that doctors have extended the hand of politics because the policy has set them up, so instead talk to those who are really on the front line of defense and are not from the HDZ lines. Furthermore, epidemics are reported to be controlled by epidemiological measures. Of course, it can no longer be done by a headquarters that is politicized and compromised. So we can't do political corrections to their opinions. Secondly, you say set priorities. This is what responsible leadership does, but responsible leadership will not cause political points with a wrong view of how this year's memory column should lose battle with the corona virus. And what's the Staff at the end? I'll go back to that, too. At first, we were relatively successful, but the Staff proved to have served as literally electoral propaganda for the purpose of holding parliamentary elections. Everything was with the citizens' trust at headquarters fine by then. After that, it went downhill, and the worst thing that has happened is that you have achieved your goal and it is seen in all the debates so far. Whatever the opposition is saying you say we won the election with 16.4 voters' votes. Gentlemen, dear, that's not enough. We're talking about things that are much, much more important and far-reaching than that. And I wouldn't even blame you for that. What exactly do I blame you for? Which during the summer when you've already won the election, you haven't prepared a health system or citizens for everything we're going through right now. It's your cry, and I'll pay you in the next election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25282	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Eric Fabianic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25283	Namely, we are here first of all to make the interpretation about the health system, but yet the health system suffers what, or absorbs all the consequences, the consequences of what is being decided or not decided, or the measures which are of a crisis or Civil Protection Staff, a non-essential name. But there is one problem that is generally related to the whole system, including the one that has been linked to the representative bodies since the very beginning. When you have a recommendation, if you have a recommendation, you can't close it. Because the moment you shut down some of the activities because the profession found that it could be the source of the infection, when you give the recommendation, you don't have to. It's a serious question to me, because at that point, if, on the basis of your recommendation as a lower level of decision, you decide to close something down at that moment of activity and you can sue for damages. And that's a fact. This was met by everyone who implemented the recommendations of the Staff, the county all, the cities all, the municipalities all. Here is my colleague, Boric, who is the head of the municipality. So these were problems until over time the situation was being stalked. Whether you're early, you're late but the fact is that's one problem. And that's why there's this syntagm where the government hides behind the Command and... The crisis communication headquarters which is also one of the logistics, I think logic suggests it's the same thing as a marketing move. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Oh, no? Because if something bad happens, it's gonna be the Joint Chief's fault, it's not gonna be the government's fault. Awesome! But there's still a certain kind, I'm talking about the communicology part. I'm not talking about that part that's connected to all the system, not how it works, but the communication part. In the same way, here's when I debated last night, unfortunately there was no respected colleague of Bačić who has mentioned more than once we will support you, you activate Article 17. I think the Constitution. Okay. Well, we're politically irresponsible. I've been hearing all night that we're politically irresponsible. You activate it, we'll back you up. And you've been given the responsibility of the citizens! I mean, so, no, this is a replacement thesis of what I listened to yesterday. Don't get me wrong. That's the thing. So you have most of it without further ado, and we will support you in that. We also supported you in that part that's tied to the earthquake and a whole series of laws that were passed here. But if you already have confidence, which is why you keep drilling into your chest, so do something, activate it. We'll back you up. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25284	Next individual debate, the esteemed representative of Nikola Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25285	Thank you. So even though most Croats and Croats are asleep now, it means half is three, but we won't give up. So when you've already pushed this debate out of the public's focus, these late nights, or you might say morning hours, at least you're a little tired. I know you'd rather we give up this debate, go home to sleep, but we'll be there by the end. And I'm just gonna look back at some of the debates. I appreciate the work of a colleague, so before she became a parliamentary representative, but she's not anymore, she'll always be a nurse, but right now she's a politician. So the parliamentary representative is not in the same position as the ones who are now on the front line of defense against the Coronal virus. We don't sleep here, but it's not much to bother with. Right? We sit here, we have no business like our doctors, nurses who are exposed to much, much harder efforts, which are under protective equipment. All we have to do is put up with these protective masks. And we don't have to put up with them here as we speak from the pay phone. So, first of all. When you speak here, then you're a politician, you're not a nurse. Secondly, you spoke from your personal experience. Some have very likely different experiences in other institutions. Personal experiences and personal impressions are not a state of mind in the system, although it is nice that you shared your personal experience with us and we are happy to listen to it and appreciate everything you have given in the fight against the coronary virus. What is very important here to emphasize, therefore dissatisfaction with both doctors and nurses. This is witnessed by medical unions, the Croatian Medical Chamber. All those who have reported on this topic in recent weeks have expressed great dissatisfaction with the state of the system and that is something that must not be denied, to which we must not remain silent, which we as politicians should also talk about. And your task as minister is to take certain steps. I think tonight during the entire debate, I was well-intentioned. So I did not go inappropriately to you or to the rulers. He's aware of the situation we're in, but he's also aware that you've made a lot of mistakes without anyone. I think these calls are to resign and the rest, so the government has received trust in the management of Croatia and this crisis. So, in that sense, we'll have time to draw the line and then we'll see who did what and what moves you made. Therefore, Croatian citizens will also give their own court on this matter. But there was a lot I'd say wrongly done, and what he resents and I'll repeat what you've been saying all along... Kalmetina, well, that's absolutely irrelevant, so HDZ has set a replacement I don't mean to get involved in, but what I wanted to say is, what I wanted to say to you most, is that you've been hiding behind the profession and you haven't clearly said since the beginning that in this crisis you need to make political decisions and I think it will ultimately cost you and that it will cost you unfortunately the headquarters itself, and she will ultimately pay for Croatian citizens. [[Intruder: You don't understand.]] It was the most crucial mistake from the very beginning, here. And I hope that we'll have a chance to discuss it in some more polite time, at some decent time on this subject, this one, I'm this long-suffering, but I'm kind of losing focus, too, so I hope that after a new year, as we promised to discuss both the staff report and all these topics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25286	You have one replica, distinguished representative Erik Fabianic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25287	... It'll cost them. [[Specially enabled.]] Namely, I remember some wartimes, some other election campaigns when HDZ promised refugees every year that it would go home for Christmas, so it didn't happen five years in a row and it didn't cost them.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25288	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25289	Well, this one, I don't lose confidence in the Croatian people, this one I think the Croatian people will, colleague Bačić Yeah, this is a yes, no. [[Intruder: Please do not throw from the bench.]] No, it is not okay really, yes, I am convinced that the Croatian people will know how to recognize especially in this difficult crisis who acted as they did. [[Intruder: Deconcentrate speaker, please.]] I think the opposition acted responsibly and constructively, and here I think of the entire opposition, so all the political parties in the opposition and that we all tried to be constructive, offer solutions, give a hand of cooperation, unfortunately ruling did not accept and take responsibility for all the good and bad for them. So unfortunately things are mostly bad now, they were good, and now someone's gonna have to take responsibility.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25290	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Josip Boris.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25291	Mr. President, here's something I want to say about this interpretation, about how the government has prepared a health system for this fight. Is that it's late hours, but it's not our fault, it's the strategists from the opposition Mr. Grmoja and the Greek tactics because they told their MPs this morning to discuss the forest law on two articles or five articles, let's say an hour ago we could all be home, but they were going to say that we were guilty, we weren't or another law for two hours. We could've worked it out a long time ago, given the content a lot, a lot sooner, but what. I don't know about the coronary virus almost anything, but I dared to engage in this debate since many others dared. And listening to my colleague, I don't have much to talk about. To write a document like this, an article of whatever we want to call, an interpretation with these conclusions, with these kind of lies we should be willing to sign here, but it's signed 16 on that, and as far as I understand it, it's why we're meeting and we're discussing it, like coffee. So whoever says what, we argue. Well, it ended up in a shoe store like a fellow Bull, and we're arguing, and we're wasting this time. As I recall in the last two weeks I don't think we need reports, I think we've shaken this whole system well. And what did we hear? Here, my conclusion is the damage of keeping our MPs out of opposition in the assembly like this. I'd like them on the ground to help because there are terrains that are heavy all over Europe. So here's what I'm gonna say so I can send someone where. Here in Germany, the last 10 days 170,000 new infected, 3,500 dead in the last 10 days, a terrible increase... That's where I'd send my colleague Brumnic, so he's there because he said that Mrs. Merkel went out to the public and that they're listening, but something's going on. [[Intruder: You don't understand.]] Austria 7,000 in hospitals, 700 on respirators today I read, and daily from 5 to 7,000 newly infected, there I would send Mrs. Oreshkovic, close, to give some advice to these people about what is happening there. Italy was my biggest doubt, there today were 17,000 new infected and 887 dead unfortunately, and I was thinking whether Mr. Matulu had looked the most solid here in the debate, but I remembered that Mr. Bernardic was in Gardeland and he, given today's debate, could in Italy help that government to teach them how to solve the Corona virus issue. And we heard today there are problems in Slovakia too, but now we can send whoever we want, and we leave our colleague Fabianic in the Primorje-Gorski County to solve the staff issue and to tighten those measures because we are among the worst. Let's face it. You have the right to a little bit of tighter measures that you're asking the government to do, and you're not asking your headquarters. You can turn that up a little bit there, if you want. Right? I think so. Isn't that right, Minister? I can, but it won't. So there's ground space, there's cry for people who know everything. I've spared my fellow Bull and Thunder let them stay here. And let them write another interpretation so we can meet again and discuss what kind of system it is. Because what does the statistics say? We heard a colleague from the SDP, we don't have any support, no headquarters. Now it depends on how you look because if the Center Party has 2%, then 98% doesn't support them, if SDP has 17%, then 83% doesn't support you because you can watch it anyway. A fellow coat of arms got mad at the stats, and I wanted to give him mine, but he got away because he said we were the worst, and it's not like that. Now, if the left-green block has 6% of them 94% want nothing at all and so we can comment because it's a debate that's been tried here today, and the headquarters may have 70% of them maybe 30% of those who vote for these don't support it, and that could be round here somewhere. And that's why I'm saying it's not this. It's an easy topic, but it's good to talk to you. [[Intruder: Time.]] And the terrain is heavy and they need experts. [[Intruder: Time.]] Please be on your way there.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25292	We have two injuries to the Rules of Procedure. The first is the distinguished representative of the Domagoj Story.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25293	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure in accordance with Article 238, a colleague, a colleague, insults fellow parliamentary deputies, and also fails to offend only three I am sure he can do more.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25294	Okay, you gave the line, you have a warning. Honourable representative Andreja Maric, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. [[Intruder: Give him a warning.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25295	Thank you very much. My dear colleague, I am indeed a person with a great threshold of tolerance, but under Article 238, you are insulting and devoting us to MPs and all that we are talking about. So we're telling you about important things, you're saying that we could discuss it at coffee, in the shoe store, you're making fun of it, and you're making fun of everything we're talking about, and the problems are serious.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25296	My colleague Bulj was talking about shoes.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25297	This was a replica, and you have a reminder. to you, ma'am. [[Intruder: to you.]] Replica Named, distinguished representative called Brumnic, replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25298	My dear colleague, I am very pleased that you are sending me to Germany, I really think it is one of the better countries because when we look at the numbers, says 253 million people died in Croatia 591, 15.142 infected in Croatia 40.057, tested 363,442 per million in Croatia 207,000. Trust in Angel Merkel 3.5 out of 5, trust in the Croatian government we heard this from your side 3.2 out of 10. It tells you how you do, what you do, and what trust you have in what you do. And the minister has told you today that he knows what the problems are and it would be very correct for you to accept the well-intentioned suggestions of your colleagues who went on this side, accept them, install them and make the system better.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25299	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25300	Thank you very much, Vice President. So I'm gonna say why I've been arguing like this, because this is what this debate looked like to me all night. Because so much, so I said what I was arguing about this way, no. I've been challenged by this debate that started somewhere around 8, 9 o'clock so far and the way it's discussed so once, about such an interpellation that you signed. And like this, it basically ends every kind of impelation. You apologize in the end to the Minister and say he's good. And that's okay. And we all talked. Well, I've been listening to the debates, not now, Grumoja, here's my colleague Grumoja said the minister is good. So it's not a problem if we're going to talk, but the problem is that you're creating topics for conversation and what you're based on on an article, you're able to conclude on some letter that there's nothing wrong with this country. That's why I sent you to Germany to teach them because you know a lot and they learn something from us Croats.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25301	Next replica, distinguished representative Eric Fabianic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25302	Comrade Boric, I admire your self-destructiveness. I'll tell you why, because if everyone here went from opposition to the countries that you'd send us no more than you wouldn't have the diaspora votes. [[Intruder: There are several countries.]] Um, but here's the joke on the side, and this was really a joke, and at least I'm saying that I'm not going to insult you. But there is one thing that Mr. Boris really scored when he said so the county can take stricter measures, whether or not it has to, but the county can also say the same thing to Boric, so give you a sharper measure for which reason and here I read the mechanism of what I was talking about, if we were listening, if we were listening. What reason am I telling you this? Because this is how Boric's easy to say, he's the mayor's fault, the mayor's gonna be easy if he was a HDZ or a SDP's guy to say easy, but he's a guilty headquarters. And that's why this interpretation of people is good for me if we want to do something serious from this country. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25303	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25304	Thank you very much, colleague Fabianic, the fact is that in our county is not well now. We were good for the 2nd month, the 3rd month, the 4th, the summer was fine, unfortunately now is not 450 a day too many and for our county. And the headquarters that has experienced changes for policy reasons, etc., obviously has no power to make a harder decision than the headquarters in Istria, which, for example, already in the 11th month has sent all students to online teaching. We know no, and they fight in their own way and it's not forbidden to you. But what do you want? You're saying the government is guilty, why would if the mayor did something or anyone else would, no? We'd all hide behind someone and talk all the time. It's your fault. Here's the worst of us. I don't think it's the worst thing about us, and that's why I've been saying these numbers because there's something going on in the whole space. Let's look at America, 230,000 today infected, 3,500 dead, that's one orderly state... It doesn't matter when [[Intruder: You don't understand.]] Look at their numbers, look at them, look at them from their colleague Brumnic. [[Intruder: Please do not discuss.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25305	Last line, please, Mr. Brumnic, let's not argue from the bench.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25306	Let's just leave it to as many as there is.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25307	Boric! Dear Representative Tomašević replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25308	I'm glad you always show up at the end, which is always sugar at the end of your debate. These analogies are great that if 6% supports us then 94% don't, but let's get back on the right scale. From 1 to 10, from 1 to 10 citizens trust a little less than 4 headquarters and you come here and boast and say headquarters has the highest trust of all the government institutions in this country. So you're boasting that the government has even less than that 3, that the council where you have most of them has even less than that, that the judiciary has even less than that. So the citizens of this country trust more Santa than the Croatian government and you boast about it, so that's your argument. So I'd keep quiet about it, I'd be ashamed of it, I'd keep it quiet. When I say "smart shame" by being proud, I can't believe it. that you're using it as an argument in compatibility with another [[Intruder: Time.]] The countries. [[Intruder: Time!]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25309	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25310	Comrade Tomasevic, I didn't want to send you anywhere. You have a difficult task. You've all had a fight in that left coalition of yours and apparently this one between the Zagreb Assembly, the assembly and the desire to be mayor, you obviously didn't say much today, so I didn't want to send you anywhere, be mayor of this city but it won't be easy. [[You want to go to the club?]] Because it's no problem to spread theories and free knowledge, you need to know how to work. And what you think people are looking at or trying to say is that, it's not that simple. So you have your problems fighting for those armchairs that you say are incriminating, you fight about it no, I'm not ashamed of my discussions, I know why I said this to anyone who wants to understand it, and to compare that in any way. My colleague Glamuzina spoke in her own way, and I spoke in mine. It's the same thing. It's just a question of which end we're looking at. That's why a nice message, leave your impelation, support the good people who work [[Intruder: Time.]] And we'll all be better off. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25311	On behalf of the promoter, the distinguished representative Tomislav Tomašević.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25312	Here goes the end of this movie, just before 3 o'clock, can I say now that we're in a porno time, this must be a porn term. I don't think this, if only I could watch this, only those who are 18 plus, and I wouldn't recommend that they watch this kind of debate, honestly. So this one I hope, however, that those health workers who are on the night shift, I'm not sure if it's good for them to look at us, but if they're watching us if there's anything else here, I'm using this opportunity to welcome them and wish them this much I don't know about patience, effort, strength and energy for all of us, and we hope that no one in this room will be in their shift for the next few days. We're still talking about interpelation, because so far we're not really in it, not only are we in a porno time, but we also didn't have a simple opportunity to discuss, the way the headquarters runs this health crisis. That's why we stayed here until 3:00, so you see, and when you put in 8 we didn't go home, nobody gave up their debate, we're here because we want to discuss it, but you didn't give us any chance of it. So this interpretation, otherwise, Mrs. Grba Bujevic is not an interpretation, I know you have problems with that word, but the interpretation saw that you were also struggling with that word in the media. And Mr. Boric, I think he'd be the best special advisor in New Zealand. Here I am, I can arrange with the Prime Minister of New Zealand that you teach the Croatian model in New Zealand to teach them how to deal with the health crisis. Here I can arrange for you through the greens to be a special, special ambassador to Croatia in New Zealand. Mr Beroš, first of all, I want to say that I appreciate that you are here because I think it shows some respect for parliament on your part, and I want to say that, but what I think is disrespect for the Croatian Parliament from the Croatian Government and from the national headquarters that in these nine months, we haven't really had a report that we could discuss in the assembly on what measures, what are the results and how this health crisis should be managed and how the health system should be better prepared to deal with this kind of crisis. So that's what I find disrespect. Just as I believe it is disrespecting that then, according to the law that we have amended to protect the population from infectious diseases, with very serious sanctions, with very serious restrictions on freedom we have put on three times a year that parliament should actually report on measures, three times a year. If it's not disrespect for parliament, I don't know what it is. So it was an amendment to the opposition that I think MOST should be at least once a month. You said no. So this is, in my opinion, a lack of respect for parliament, it is clear who has executive power, but it is also clear where this executive power comes from, and yet it is Parliament and legislative authority. I could talk about a lot right now. What I also think is that disrespecting parliament is when our conclusion of November 3rd when we talked about how to improve and prepare a health system for this crisis, the camp and rot on the agenda, can't even come to a plenary debate. That's what I think is disrespect and parliament if you want to disrespect the opposition. You could say a lot about KB Dubrava, as well as the strategy of this centralized regional centres, I'm not so sure that KB Dubrava will recover from this situation so quickly, I see in the budget that it doesn't look very good. On the other hand, the entire eastern part of Zagreb has very limited access to health services from emergency services, meaning ordinary, ordinary levels of health services. I'm not sure it was the best model, you chose that model, we'll see at the end of the evaluation how it's going to show, but definitely with the KB of Dubrava after this health crisis it'll take me a long time to recover as a hospital. As far as the traffic lights are concerned, we've been offering a traffic light, we've been looking for a traffic light, you've decided it's not the best model for you, we can no longer say what fans say, look at the traffic lights, no one can look at the traffic lights because there's no traffic lights, so we can't even know when these measures are going to be made easier, when they're going to be tightened to have some objective criteria, that people are believed, that the headquarters isn't believed not because it's important, it's not the popularity test as many people believe in the headquarters, it's a question of credibility, so they respect measures at all, and they don't need sanctions, we can't sanction the whole state we know that. I warned you a week ago that healthcare professionals They don't have flu vaccines. [[Intruder: Time.]] But here came 130,000 doses, so I'd like to have more of those. Unfortunately, he was gone. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25313	You have a line, Agent Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25314	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You are a member of the opposition, with the right as an opposition representative, you have the right to criticise the work of the government and the ruling. But the public and we in the ruling watch you work, after two months your club fell apart, your Workers' Front went away from you, and you're in opposition. Imagine how much you were a cohesion factor when you fell apart in opposition. You're starting a coalition with the SDP. Poor SDP has been preparing for days to amend the Criminal Procedure Act, and you know why it is official to sanction sexual harassment and send to emergency procedures. And Mrs. Bencic takes it off the agenda this morning, one of her future SDP coalition partners. In order for you to lead the country when you are unable to be together and you would take responsibility for leading Croatia in this difficult situation you have already delegated yourself in advance, you understand He needs to have knowledge to run the country. [[Intruder: Time.]] And he who does not know how to lead the opposition or the City of Zagreb is not a country. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25315	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25316	First we'll see, you'll see how to run Zagreb, because you've shown how you run it, and then the country's leadership goes, that's the first thing. The second thing, the second thing means you're teaching some, first you're changing records because you're attacking the entire opposition when both the right and the left sign an impelation, and this is how you say we're divided. So at the same time you attack us when we're together, and ideologically different, and you attack us because we're divided. So as for one, one representative at our club, our club didn't fall apart, it's smaller for one representative, and your club is smaller for two MPs who lost immunity because the DORH started investigating them... in just a few months. [[Applause.]] So you'd better think about your club and who you're gonna replace without losing your immunity again. ... [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25317	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, the distinguished representative of Kata Glamuzin.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25318	It is not a replica, but a breach of the Rules of Procedure, please, chairing Article 238, which the representative says during the hearing must not speak about a subject which is not subject to discussion. So I would like to pay attention to Mr. Bacic that the state of the club of colleagues, Tomasevic, his coalition, nor the Penal Code, is none of this subject to this debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25319	You already have 2 warnings, and there is no point in taking away the word, well, we have a replica, the honourable representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25320	A colleague, Boric, wants to go to New Zealand.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25321	Thank you very much. Dear colleague, I didn't want to send you to New Zealand because I think you should go to this election, no matter what you've all had a fight with and this comet from you, it's just not a problem for you, it wasn't something I read and Mr. Kapovic said it was so, that you're actually troublesome, and that you support a bad party that same as Banic in Rijeka. So you're gonna have to do this a little bit more media work, which is why I didn't want to send you anywhere. But these roars and this activism that appears in this late hour isn't good, Mr. Matula, don't do it, no, don't. We're not at the theater, we're not at the show, I just wanted to tell you, be a good politician, no, you're gonna have a hard job, but don't fly, no, because you can happen to fall and then it'll be difficult to keep this few people in the club. And in each of you lies a little dictator I had no right to speak today At the board meeting and please tell your colleague that [[Intruder: Time.]] Let the MPs speak. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25322	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25323	So the level of obstruction you're doing on the Environmental Protection Committee, I've never heard of it. It means that you are destroying the agenda as the ruling majority in a row and do not allow at all discussing the waste management centres in Croatia no, it is the dictator that I have never seen squat in you. In each one of you who does not allow for several meetings of the Environmental Protection Committee to be discussed at all at some point. It doesn't matter, and it didn't have anything to do with his subject. And as for your political advice for the mayor of Zagreb or for the candidacy or for the local elections, first you find a candidate and then you share the advice, you can't even find him for Zagreb.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25324	We have one breach of the Rules of Procedure. Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25325	Thank you very much, Vice President. Article 238, a colleague here is false. He's not acting right in the assembly because these colleagues from the same club that fell apart don't tell him the truth. I witnessed today that I was not given a word at the assembly session because that the president could do it, the board of pardon committees. And we have problems and our debates about determining the agenda last more than anyone else about the law. Because that's the result of the work of a lady who runs that board and thinks she can run the board.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25326	So you're, uh, there's been no breach of the Rules of Procedure, but your replica, you have a warning. Dear Representative Bulj, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25327	Thank you very much. A colleague, Boric, injured Article 238, and you, the chairman, injured all the articles, because it is absolutely not a serious issue that we would like to discuss, but is being debated here about the green-left coalition, who is the mayor of Zagreb. What does that have to do with this epidemic? You don't care about the health situation, the economics, you're in the election. That's what matters to you. And I think the tribal would warn him, but you can't, on the party duty of him or a colleague of Bačić, anyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25328	So it wasn't an injury. You've been warned. And by the way, you're always talking about the subject, you're famous for it. Dear Representative Tomašević, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Tomašević.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25329	It was a violation of the Rules of Procedure, Article 365. That's what's called a party with which HDZ is persistently coalitiond and not given out of that hug. And as long as it is not given out of that hug, there is no one to teach about how to manage Zagreb.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25330	I give you a warning, too. The next debate is final on behalf of the club MOST independent lists, the distinguished representative of Nikola Grmoje.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25331	Here I would at the end of this marathon debate express my satisfaction that my colleague, Boris, praised me for agreeing with me that Minister Beros should not have and that the government should not have, means to present itself, in fact, as one who, on the basis of the profession, made decisions and that it was a great support. I am pleased that there are representatives of the ruling majority who acknowledge it and that I am therefore praised here in the Croatian Parliament. It would be good if Minister Beroš too, meaning to follow the example of his counterpart, Boric, and admit the mistake. We have tried throughout this crisis as well as during the debate to be very constructive. This is not the time to discuss local elections. I know that some of the wings have grown, and I know that some of them are in fear of what will be in the city of Zagreb, but this is the time to discuss the health situation, the state of our health system, and even the economic situation if you want to today, and there is little talk about it. And when the businessmen come, our entrepreneurs, our craftsmen, when they light candles in front of the Ministry of Economy, your government, Mr. Bor I will tell them that it's morbid even though people are afraid of their jobs, they don't know how this is going to end. In the end, we would like to warn the ruling one more time, to take good care of what they are doing in this crisis and about the supply of equipment and everything that is going on in our hospitals. I also couldn't agree with that, I warned during the debate that the situation in Dubrava is such that it will be able to resolve itself very quickly. I said it wasn't just an incentive, you made me realize that I said it was the result of her being designated as a covid hospital. And I said in the replica that we have a problem there and some of those clan conflicts inside the HDZ, which is not good at all. And I think it's necessary to start solving these problems. And well told by your colleague, I think Glamuzino that it was, that you are responsible for the entire health system, for all hospitals, regardless of what is quite clear that one man cannot know what is going on everywhere. But your responsibility is at least moral for the whole system and you need to be aware of it. I don't want to argue any longer, so I want both the government and the Staff to fix the situation. I want Croatian citizens to see if it's possible, but given the figures, I doubt it's going to happen for Christmas to measure for New Year's Eve. But the situation doesn't seem like we'll be expecting it. And I wish us all more reason, more wisdom, less politics. And fellow Boric, if I am well-intentioned in the debate, then don't act in a way that is completely inappropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25332	Injury of the Rules of Procedure Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25333	Thank you very much, Vice President. This Regulation shall enter I'm also a well-intentioned colleague of the Grmoy, and I didn't send you anywhere, and you said it like a real Dalmatian saw upside down that I support everything that you said wrong about the government and the minister. I only supported the part where you said the minister was good and that the minister was the least guilty of what you said, that and that you wouldn't even ask him about it. That's what I commended. And what you turned yourself in favor of that I didn't say and that's why you need to get a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25334	So you're replicating. You have a warning. That's the third. You have a takeaway. Glamuzina, you're the third warning. Come on, come on in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25335	Infringement of Article 238 I know I'm taking a risk, but since we're both Dalmatians, you might want to look right through my fingers because I think you've realized that your colleague, Boric, has offended all the Dalmatians with this statement.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25336	I didn't understand anything, but you're getting a warning. That's the third, so then it's taking away the word until the end of the debate. Dear representative Maja Grba-Bujevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25337	Dearly respected these last five minutes, I will use something to say on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community club about those we haven't talked about in all these hours of debate. Let's say something about primary health care. In March, the Minister of Health already adopted instructions on the organisation of work and treatment in the provision of health care in both primary and out of hospital specialist consular health care specifically for each individual activity. According to the indication, priority e-ordering was used on specialist searches or through A5 instructions, using consultations based on documentation without patient presence. The telecommunications of doctors and telemedicine with patients with different communication channels is also particularly encouraged. And with the release of e-recepts for an extended period of time than otherwise, e-ortoped aid was introduced all during the implementation of this covid. Currently, the hospital covid is organized at a total of 53 locations, and the tests are taken at 33 locations in the organization of health homes. In Croatia we currently have 28 test sites that carry out primary PSR testing using the method of analysis of collected samples to covid-19 disease. 250 rapid antigen tests have been obtained, and 500 thousand on arrival, 250 000, 500 000. And now there's something else we haven't even said about the medical emergency. From the beginning of the epidemic to the present day, workers outside the hospital's emergency medical services have had a total of nearly 200,000 interventions you will remember more easily on the ground, and 172 000 interventions in the resuscitation areas. Of these, 7909 emergency interventions were related to patient covid-19 interventions while of the total number of sanitary transports of 417000, 11151 were related to sanitised transport related to covid positive patients. Both for them and these emergency government officials, the Republic of Croatia has secured a 10% add-on. And it's all actually, about hospital healthcare I won't say anything anymore, it's no longer necessary. We all said a lot together, even if there was something to add. And everything that's being said today on this right-hand side of this House, it's just that it's all supposed to be organized, that it should be reorganized, prepared, and done together, and it's saying enough about how it's ready today, how it's been and how the health system is prepared for this answer. And it didn't make an opposition, it wasn't done by someone there, it was done by the government of the Republic of Croatia headed by Andrej Plenkovic and who took responsibility for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25338	The next final debate on behalf of the SDP club, a respected representative called Brumnic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25339	Dear Minister, it's no problem to make a mistake. The problem is if you are unable to admit that mistake and if you repeat it to infinity. Anyone who does anything and makes a mistake, so blame you if you did, wrong isn't a fair man you'd say. The problem is if you were working in the wrong faith, if you were doing something because it was something special for someone. And I think that all citizens of this country believe that certain measures have been delayed due to the HDZ elections. And that's the problem. I'm not going to say that, but believe me, the citizens honestly believe it. And that's the problem when you're trying to explain to them that these measures should be implemented today, and they shouldn't have been implemented yesterday when the elections were held. From this pay phone I already said once today we were here for the first time discussing this subject and I have to admit some of the things you said make sense. Did you manage to do them the way you wanted it to show results, but you can tell from what you said your wish was good. I can only wish you to succeed more in what you want, to really get to the numbers that are good or better for our citizens, because there's no point in saying how bad we are here. I'd rather praise how good we are, if our citizens were to benefit from both this Parliament and the government. Because the task of the opposition is not actually to attack the government, but to attack those government programs that the government presented and not to fulfill. It's actually a task of opposition. Follow the government's work. And those things the government says they're gonna do in a month, a year, three years, if they don't, then they're gonna ask why she didn't do it. It's a task of opposition. Because you have a majority, you will vote every decision you want. Our job is to make these choices that you vote, which I hope are good for the citizens and spend in the time you say. It's not about manipulating numbers to say here whether Germany is better or worse, it's better than us. The question is, why is it better? Understand why it is better and apply what makes it better than us. Just take what's good from those who are better than us. I can only conclude from this debate that more testing is needed in this country because it will give us better information and more of those who are infected in self-insulation, that we need a lot more trust from citizens in you but also you in citizens. I say again today once again for the first time we are discussing that you have explained to the citizens what you have explained to us because I really believe that a lot more citizens would listen to what you are saying or what you want to achieve. And lastly, the awareness that every system rests on people and rests on those who manage these systems and that a system that understands those with whom it works and manages well can also bring good results. Here I really want successful work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25340	On behalf of the promoter Mrak Taritas, Maric and Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25341	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear ministers with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues, here we go in the late evening or early morning hours and allow me to look again at some of the things we suggested in the interpretation, but this time I will go with what the government has prepared or the government has really given you some effort and on page 19 has written a report that answers our interpretation of the preparation of the health system of the Republic of Croatia to special circumstances caused by the Corona virus. This report, unfortunately, does not provide an answer to any of the two key questions raised by this interpretation. First, why on all sides of Croatia is information coming from people on the front lines of doctors and medical staff that the system is being collapsed because of poor or non-existent preparation and organisation. And another way to ensure health protection of prevention, diagnostics and treatment for people with no crown. I must tell you that your answer was a surprise to the very employees of Croatian health care that we spoke with. Many of the information they had had the opportunity to read in this report was complete news to them. This may mean a few things, that the measures listed have not been affected, so they have not had an important or noticeable impact on people on the ground or some of the things you say have not been implemented at all, but have remained a dead letter on paper that has never been achieved or that is possible and I keep telling you that communication is one of the key challenges and problems that you are not dealing with well. Doctors simply do not know what is being done or what is at their disposal. If I had to bet I'd say that the answer is all of the above how it often happens in such complex situations in life. Nevertheless, we are not satisfied with the government’s response even though it is more than one place to read about the entire situation of Covid and the health system. That should be emphasized and that's a fact. And I do not understand why the Government so aggressively rejects the conclusion that once a month, the Croatian Assembly is informed of the measures and preparations that have been made and of those planned. The government has shut itself down completely and acted as if the assembly there was a left-wing disturbance that if it told him or asked for his support, it would blow up absolutely ideas and plans. They decided that all decisions were made between a few people around a table. All right, but that means it'll be easier for us, given that in the meantime we've become the worst in Europe and by the number of cases and by mortality. Among the people around that table, it would be good to make a deal and share responsibility for such a situation. In fact, the government's report confirms in its essence all the key allegations of our interpretation. It clearly states that the health system works in a significantly reduced volume, that only very urgent cases are handled, that the terms are cancelled, and the waiting lists have exploded again. That's exactly one of the two reasons why we've got the impelation and sent it to the procedure. Not only did we not get the answer that it wasn't true, but our fears were directly confirmed. He answers how to resolve this, of course, there is no government report, but the answer is what the citizens and the Croatian public are looking for. The government also failed to refer in any word to allegations that the system is unprepared and that the treatment of Covid sufferers is not working properly. There are some measures that have been taken to God's attention, but neither do we have any information as to whether they were actually implemented on the ground, nor do we have even more important information about whether they had any effect, even if the Dubrava Hospital, which they cited as an example of a vague decision which, when already taken, was not ensured by its successful implementation, actually states that the original plan was that only one part of it would be Covid Hospital and that the other part would remain available to other citizens. We are also dissatisfied with how the government manages the crisis and the health system and how it responds to the interpretation. They decided to close themselves in their narrow circle. You don't listen to anything, and you don't listen to anyone but them nodding their heads. Unfortunately, the consequences of such behavior are becoming more difficult and more difficult. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25342	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25343	Thank you very much. Here's the late hour, but I think it was worth it, that it was worth spending so many hours on the debate. We feel that we have worked hard and prepared for this interpretation, that we have pointed to the problems that exist in the health system, and I believe that all these well-intentioned advice and criticism of all these things that we point out that our minister and his associates will certainly respect. Not everything is as great and wonderful as it is in some departments or in a hospital in Sibenik. So, we did not learn about these problems that we were talking about from newspaper articles or somewhere on coffee or in shoe stores like Mr. Boris was talking about, but we did what in active work in the healthcare system, which in conversations with health, health workers in the system, in the social care system, so we detected all the problems that exist and I believe that the minister will respect it. We haven't said anything wrong here, and we're not really looking for any bad things. We didn't have any bad intentions. And exactly what my colleague was saying, so we pointed out that there are certain shortcomings in the preparation and management of the health system in the Republic of Croatia, and we pointed out that things should be improved. So we've already talked about data within four weeks of two and a half times as many dead and twice as many infected. So we think we need to work to immediately reduce the number of infected and dead. And I believe that you will finally accept all those advices and constructive proposals that we have been telling you in recent months not only us from the opposition but also from the profession, medical associations, individual members of the Government Scientific Council. Understand that we need to communicate better with citizens, that they need to be better presented with the measures you have reached out to. We've been telling you about this traffic light, or the degree of action. Accept that. Obviously, there are regions that are not equally affected and in this sense should also adapt the measures and number of doctors, etc. Just accept that there's some sense in mass testing. We talked about Slovakia, we talked about the results we saw on both antigen tests and schools. Here's what's starting to get more and more tested in companies, so go for that mass test. And of course, here's what you couldn't talk about in more detail, but make sure you do an economic analysis. So cost-benefit analysis of how much antigen testing costs, PSR testing, equipment, respirators, how much we're going to have economic consequences so we finally get some kind of answer. And here I would say, in conclusion, that in addition to what we said there were shortcomings in preparation, we certainly encourage and we want and pray that the Government of the Republic of Croatia not only on these 19 pages that we had the opportunity to read, but also to make a clear plan for the upcoming period. We also find it quite reasonable that the Government of the Republic of Croatia once a month reports on what its work is and what about the work of the Staff. Here I am thanking you and I hope that we will continue to be more constructive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25344	Good morning, everyone! I thank you for your words. One of the things we've really tried to emphasize all this time, and I'm not going to repeat the measures now because they're also writing in the proposal for our conclusion and our interpretation, etc. which we have been trying to emphasize is that we are really primarily defending the health system and that we need to concentrate on ensuring all possible support for healthcare professionals. We in the Green-left bloc and in the budget debate asked for additional funds for their salaries. We are stressing this all the time, however, MP Brnardic accused the opposition of showing medical workers and workers in a bad light, as we quoted in the interpretation their allegations that they were drug-free, that they were working a huge number of overtime hours that they had not been paid, that they had no material and that indeed some departments were sometimes in chaos. That's not what we said. That's what your former colleagues and colleagues said. However, it is not your former colleagues and colleagues' fault that there are no drugs, materials and that they are working until the power runs out. It's your current colleagues and colleagues' fault, because they didn't organize the system in time so it can function somewhat adequately because we're not looking for the perfect. And to ensure all support for those who work in the covid departments. You chose attitude and profession tonight. It is the attitude you are told to have, and the profession is a member of the HDZ. In doing so, you forgot that your colleagues and colleagues had neither the happiness nor the family pedicure nor the enviable internship of 12 years of HDZ membership at only 30 years of age so that the hospital could replace the Assembly chair. Furthermore, I asked today a question about Mr. Primorac's conflict of interest, his membership in the Council, and the fact that his special hospital sells antigen tests, that he sells them at a price that is 600 times the purchase price. So 60 kuna, 350 or 60 kuna. I know what the price is because I called. So what was my question is why don't you limit the price. You said it was a private sector, we can't limit the price. But it's not like that, Minister Berosch. You've limited the price of masks. Did you limit the price of masks? Yes, it is. And why can't we limit the price of antigen tests? If we not only limited the price, we forbid people to work. So also to the private sector, we've banned them from working at all. And we can't limit the selling price of antigen tests in a minimal way to say what is the maximum percentage for which they can be sold from the purchase price. I don't think it's really right to make profit in this kind of crisis and not just any profit but really extra profit. And then you say it's a moral question. It is also a moral question that, in fact, Mr. Primorac should worry about his morals. But it is amazing to me that such a person's morale is acceptable to the prime minister, to remain in scientific advice, but it is not acceptable for those who have dared to publicly say that there are shortcomings in the management of this crisis and who have made public recommendations on what we have also recommended that this crisis management be improved. Not only that, but they are also grateful for their work on scientific advice and, of course, by the prime minister. I am telling the prime minister because it was done by Frka Petesic, the head of the prime minister's office, but certainly not on his own, but on whom it is known. We were worried and worried and warned, so we talked for a month, a colleague of Ivana Kekin from the new left, we all said at press conferences that doctors weren't split for the flu and we kept saying that and you kept saying that we were wrong and that it wasn't true and everyone got the vaccine. They didn't get the vaccine. And when we said that to you here last week, so you really called and asked, so you heard that really ordered large new doses of flu vaccines because that really not all health workers were vaccinated for the flu last week, December. Flu vaccination takes place at the 10th month. So, for months, we haven't had a system of detecting the isolation of contacts, and you're always rejecting it as irrelevant, and everyone warns all doctors, everyone's telling us from the World Health Organization to the European agencies that this is the most important and successful strategy that applies first, you go first with it. It fell apart, okay the decay could happen, there was, there was a big increase, a big horizontal expansion at once. But why don't we re-establish it, if it isn't just us, because okay, we're the opposition you don't want to tell us don't God give us that we're about something right, but really 6 of you are the medical chiefs' associations including the chambers asked for it, the union medically, they're their requirement. This was the proposal of these underlying members of the scientific council, which are no longer because they are grateful. So we don't understand why they wouldn't agree to that. It can be organized we gave a proposal how. And so after all these warnings and after the fact that 6 of our regions are among the worst 6 in Europe that we have the worst incidence with Luxemburg, that we have one of the highest mortality rates and after the data that a large number of people can't come to the diagnosis of some of the time therapy for malignant diseases that could be expected, you're still saying that everything is fine and that everything is under control. We're not saying that nothing's wrong, we're not saying that anything's wrong, we're saying which specific points should be improved or at least possibly improved because some are not anymore. We're just saying which can be improved, but you're saying no, everything's fine. That's just as good as saying nothing. So we can't say that the same situation is in Germany, France, Italy because it's not, because you have data on the number of cases detected at 100,000 and we don't have 3 times as much as Germany, from Italy, from Slovakia. You've got data every day that's refrigerated on the pages. So what's even more important to point out is that I don't want to claim that we've done everything differently to make the necessary numbers much better, we can't know and we can't argue and it's really too much to argue, but at least we would know and have a calm conscience that we've done everything we can. Not everything we've politically been able to do, but everything we've really been able to do. However, I, Minister Beroš, do not hold you responsible for this because it is the prime minister who took responsibility for not doing everything he could. That's why he's not actually with us today or the video link because he doesn't actually think it's his responsibility, he just thinks it's his will. But with this policy of his will should come responsibility because what he thinks is here from Mr. Beros is, the virus is, on doctors, it's on scientists, on Frka Petesic let him solve it, but they all actually have wider shoulders than he does. Everyone has wider shoulders than him so he can hide behind them and that's the bottom of this whole crisis. Hiding from the responsibility of the person who is responsible, the highest responsibility was won in the elections. He hides behind the shoulders of those whose responsibility is actually less, whose power is far less and who are actually forced to do as he says. They've been sitting here all day. You've been sitting here all day. He's not here today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25345	We have three injuries to the Rules of Procedure. The first is the distinguished representative Nada Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25346	Thank you, dear Vice President. Representative Bencic was injured, in violation of Rules of Procedure 238, namely the representative has a clear style in the debate as well as any of us who likes someone more or less, but she did not even remember her last name, but she did not like her debate to take away her right to be no longer a nurse because she replaced with the HDZ card.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25347	Okay, that was a replica you have a reminder. Angel Striker.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25348	Although I have the possibility of another replica, I believe that the violation of Rules of Procedure is Article 237, so my colleague Bencic has no slight knowledge of this epidemic as well as I do. I didn't get over her, and I didn't get over her health profession. And now she goes to call the person who was literally on the first line of defense – the nurse, now our colleague Baradić. It's lively insolence! Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25349	Okay, thank you. You also have a warning. Dear Representative Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25350	Thank you very much. colleague Bencic, Article 238. He insults his colleagues, insults the party, and he also keeps saying that someone has been expelled from the Government of the Scientific Council. It's not. To speak so uglyly of Professor Primorac, who the minister was, who brought many Nobel laureates from that profession. We also appreciate Professor Djikic and Radman and Staglar, all of them. They all have something to say on the Scientific Council and no one's been thrown out of the Scientific Council.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25351	Okay. That was a warning for you, too. Nobody's got any more. And there is, the representative of the bush.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25352	Article 238 has been injured. I also said in my debate that my colleague is now a politician. I don't mind a colleague, though. But we need to make it clear what function she's in right now. And here's my colleague, Uncle, I can talk metrically about the Coronal virus, because I got over it. So consider it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25353	Okay. You have a warning, too. Maja Grba-Bujevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25354	Your Honor, Mr. President, Article 238 has been injured. Our colleague has her name and last name. His name is Nikola Baradic. Our colleague works at the General Hospital of Zadar, not Sibenik, as a colleague of parliament has twice brought out. And the third is that time is very late and that I know that I deserve a warning. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25355	Okay. It's not too late. It's 3:30. Okay. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. We continue today at 9.30 p.m. with the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Memberships in Tourist Communities. Good morning! The session was interrupted at 3:32 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25361	Good morning, everyone. Today we begin with the agenda point: Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on memberships in tourist communities, second reading, P.Z. No. 64 The Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 64 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia in relation to Art. 172. 190. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. On the occasion of the debate on this item of the agenda, the provisions of the second reading shall apply, meaning that amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Tourism. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? The State Secretary of State is with us from the Ministry of Tourism and Sports. Sandra Herman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25362	Dear Vice-President of the HS, distinguished parliamentary deputies, I most warmly welcome you all. Here is a draft final proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Memberships in Tourist Communities. Very briefly, therefore, the proposed amendments and additions to the Law on Memberships in Tourist Communities reduce the rates for the calculation and payment of membership fees in tourist communities by 12%, allowing for further reduction of membership fee as parafiscal fee for businesspeople, which is in line with the Action Plan for reducing non-taxed and parafiscal payments in 2020. as well as the Government of the Republic of Croatia 2020-2020 programme, setting as one of the objectives an administrative and tax and parafiscal redistribution of the economy in order to further create a stimulating and competitive business environment. During the first reading of this law, we discussed many suggestions, many questions, many ambiguities, and I would just like to point out that most of the proposals went towards a complete abolition of the tourist membership. I must point out that this is exactly the direction it is going because from 2016 until now, tourist membership is down 32%, but of course it is still going towards it. These amendments and amendments to the law by a further 12%, but parallel to other laws and other incentive mechanisms also regulate the reduction of this parafiscal giving. There have been some very constructive suggestions, and I must say that they are bound by regulations that come from the law itself, so that, when we amend them and supplement them, we will also respect them. And what is the only difference between the text of the draft law which passed the first reading in HS with the text of the final draft law is that the proposal of the HS Legislative Committee relating to only one nomotechnical supplementation is accepted. 5. the same is additionally nomotechnically completed, the other changes and additions do not take into account first reading and the final proposal for amending and supplementing the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25363	You can leave. Before the replicas, two MPs raised their hands, which means they'd be looking for a break. The first one was Mr. Dr. Retar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25364	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President of HS. Dear colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the Association of State Movement Representatives, I am looking for a break before the debate begins, or the final agreement that this will all go through again, I would like to remind and speak on behalf of all economic operators especially entrepreneurs in this Croatia who will not feel a reduction of the rate by 12% in some important way. I have a company myself, so I almost completely don't care if I pay 186 or 171 kuna for the tourist membership, we think that the summation just as we did here yesterday when we spoke and mentioned the number of 30 and some million kunas and savings at the annual level actually does not represent some big step forward in the better and brighter fiscal future of his company. We believe that I am a law, and membership fees should be made more seriously, and that they are necessarily subject to a deeper and more intensive debate not only in the Assembly, but also by the interested expert community of both entrepreneurs and all others who might be involved in this round or process that perhaps one day the tourist community is placed on the market as independent entities, that they may be legally allowed to act and then we can see what the old folk, who the persuasions say, who both know and wants to work, and who lives on as they say on the national tit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25365	Thank you, too. Mr. Pavlichek.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25366	The Honorable Vice President of HS. I am looking for a 10-minute break on behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns' Club to further consult on the amendments and additions to this law, but in order to once again warn of the disastrous editorial policy of HRT, which yesterday on the anniversary of the death of the first Croatian president, at the last minute, took off the film "Who is this State?" precisely on the initiative of our representative General Željko Sačić. But yesterday was a beautiful sports night in Croatia where Dinamo beat the CSK, where Rijeka beat Alkamar, where Croatian handball players won Romania at the European Championship, but we couldn't see any of it on HRT even though we're paying an 80 kuna RTT fee, I wonder why, shame.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25367	It's from democracy. I've left you to speak to the end, but from autocraticity I have to give you a warning because that's not the point of the agenda. By 9.45 we have a break. Who's Bull? [[/Intruder: Bulj picked up, Bulj answered.]] And Mr. Bull, you picked up the same thing? I didn't see, I'm sorry, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25368	Thank you very much. As I said in my first reading, most of the money from the tourist communities goes towards the county, tourist communities, according to Zagreb, is the largest part of the company registered for example. as HT and others, the least remains means local environments, and otherwise tourism communities in the Republic of Croatia do not achieve any results and new values except that they are not on the market and which, of course, costs our tourist hosts, people who deal with tourism, our renters have to pay for it. And that's all it is. It is one of the burdens that is under weight and on the spine of people who are engaged in tourist activities and what the tribal would do, as I said in the first reading, this, this, this, would tribal this fee, of course, absolutely abolish if it is unnecessary. I expect tourism to be promoted in a completely different way, in a much better way, to be combined with our agricultural producers, and it has not been done by anyone so far to promote what we have most beautiful, and not that the tourist communities are mostly and for most purposes themselves, to fly by, go around the world, and in fact very, very little work for Croatia, very little, you can laugh, because I know from personal experiences where I live that should be a lot more branded as for example. my Sinjska Alku, there would be a tribal of the National Tourist Board, religious tourism, the Wonder Lady of Sinjska, all the features we have, however it is not. Only for the days of the alkas and The Great Lady uses it. [[Intruder: Time, thank you]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25369	Thank you, we get it. Mr. Kleman also asked for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25370	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. On behalf of the HDZ Club, I request a two-minute recess to further consult...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25371	How many minutes?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25372	HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25373	How many minutes did you say?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25374	Ten minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25375	All right.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25376	What did I say for two minutes?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25377	I figured, yeah, okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25378	We can go right now as far as I'm concerned.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25379	No, no, okay, okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25380	So, in order to further clarify our position as a club related to this bill that we keep extremely high-quality since it shows that both the government and the tourism ministry are going towards a reduction in parafiscal burdens. What we're hearing today is intensely on the air where business associations also report that they're looking for a reduction in parafiscal burdens I think this is a good, good, good law and it's going in that direction. We will certainly get to the point where the persistent reduction of the parafiscal burden in tourist communities, the membership of the tourist community will come to a point where there will be no more memberships in tourist communities, when they will be financed exclusively with income from the tourist tax. I would definitely stress the need for the existence of tourist communities, both county and HTZ, because they are a pillar of branding of tourist products on world markets where we come from the largest number of our guests. None as far as I know, and I know the state branding agency that represents the interests of the tourism industry does not work on the market but is encouraged in a variety of ways from the state budget. We do not encourage anything from the state budget here, but we encourage here, with founders, with their income to our agencies or to our branding agencies, and these are tourist communities doing the best work for micro sites, cities, municipalities and counties, and so on for branding the whole of Croatia on the world market. We have been doing this successfully for many years, and from a small tourist country we have grown into a tourist giant on the world market.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25381	Do you need a physical pause to consult or can you, can we continue? ... Stanku? [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] You want a break? Bull wants a break, 9 and 50. It's 9:00 P.M. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 9:48 A.M.]] Mrs. Herman may have had replicas. The first replica was asked for by Mrs. Devereaux. Danica Baričević.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25383	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, Secretary of State. The membership fee is one of the main revenues of the tourist communities system, it is used primarily to develop tourism for the Republic of Croatia through marketing, creating new products, education and other activities carried out by the right system of tourist communities. And if what you've said with this law is reduced the rate for the billing and payment of the membership fee by 12%, and all in order to reduce the parafiscals, for discharging entrepreneurs, which is important to say. You yourself have said that membership fees have been down 32% plus these 12% since 2016, which we are going to pass with this draft bill on amendments and amendments to the law. It's certainly a discharge for entrepreneurs, and that's also creating a more competitive business environment and that's what's important to tell, which is Thank you. [[Thank you. Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25384	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25385	I'd like to thank Mrs. Parliamentarians. She's just said everything that I've just announced, and I think the whole story about these amendments and the addition of the law is spinning right around reducing parafiscal givings. I, too, have several times during my first reading and have now noted that we are going towards a truly tourist membership fee that will eventually not be one of the major shares, especially on the continent I must mention, the original revenues of tourist communities. In parallel, we create a positive climate, a positive environment and one way in which tourist communities will be able to profit from some other things and projects and everything else.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25386	Thank you. Mrs. Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25387	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Madam Secretary of State. The government of the Republic of Croatia has invested around 10 billion kuna so far to help preserve over 630,000 jobs for 107,000 companies, the amendment of this law further relieves the economy. We know that the tourism sector is particularly affected by the coronary crisis and we know what unfortunately happens to the travel industry. I am interested in what the ministry is doing to ensure that Croatian tourism is competitive with other countries in the Mediterranean, and what specifically have you taken measures to help people who offer tourism services in the household and in the OPGs? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25388	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25389	I thank you for the question of the honourable parliamentary representative. This is also related to this, I mentioned before that some of the things that were proposed do not enter the law, but they enter the regulations that come from these amendments and the addition of the law, these are just the service providers at the agricultural households at the OPGs. And you know both yourself and Minister Dr.sc. Nikolina Brnjak communicates constantly what measures were taken naturally in collaboration with other ministries that are crucial and important, but the tourism sector has advocated for its businessmen. You know for yourself what measures have been taken that these are measures for company liquidity, that these are measures for job rescue, and that the advice for the next 2021 for the rescue of the tourist season was established yesterday, the first meetings of the council were held, further measures are being taken, and we will certainly amend and supplement the regulations resulting from this law to regulate the reliefs for owners or catering service providers at the OPGs. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25390	Thank you very much. Mr. Miro Bulj. He's gone. He's losing his right. Mr. Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25391	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Although it is to welcome a natural reduction in membership, I think this reduction in membership should also take account of a new redistribution of funds that has not been made. I would suggest to increase for regional or county tourist communities by 15 e.g. 30% provided they are used exclusively for marketing and promotion of top events in the county. Why do they have more and less locals? Well, because in local tourist communities, there are often not enough professionals or there are not enough of them to know and have time to spend well, for example. a promotional campaign on the Internet. For example, most of the directors I know of local tourist communities would not be able to conduct a Google Ads campaign or campaign on Instagram, Facebook, etc., and would not arrive because each TZ is an independent organisation or firm has the same paperwork of purely office obligations as the larger TZ, for example, county with more employees and with more work.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25392	Thank you very much, Mr. Hajdukovic. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25393	Here I just have to point out, so on the trail of the new TZ System Act, a new methodology of annual programmes, work and financial plans and the complete functioning of the system from locals through tourism to HTZ was created, and that is exactly how Mr. Hajdukovic now suggested new changes and additions and new tasks were made. So take a look at the methodology, new annual plans and work programmes, which is whose task and precisely on the trail of what you said, yes, regional tourist communities and HTZ carry out a major marketing campaign because the truth is that small local tourist communities have no financial, but no human potential.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25394	Thank you very much. You don't have any more replicas. You can, you can take your position from before. Does anyone on the board want a word? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate, Mr. Hrvoje Zekanovic is first in front of the Croatian Sovereigns' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25395	Dear Vice President HS. Any on-line notes so far? She wasn't nothing yet, was she? Was he the line? .
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25396	I gave one.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25397	That's good. So we're talking about tourist communities. I said something about this in my first reading, and I'm gonna do a few things over and over again. I'll even get right, explain. When he spoke to a respected colleague, Kleman, whom I do not see here today, unfortunately, and there he is extremely competent to speak, he spoke about HTZ, meaning about the Croatian tourist community, and I spoke first of all about local tourist communities. As for the work that HTZ is doing, I'll even say it's satisfactory and it's not bad and all these big tourist houses depend extremely on HTZ, and there's a good job to do, but let's go to the heart, grow in tourism, come on, the crown has interrupted us a little bit, but even here we've made a step in relation to other tourist countries, or to competition. The Spanish had 5%, the Italians had 10%, we had almost 50% cca, no matter. However, what I pointed out here last time, here I will now try to explain it is the issue of small local tourist communities. Not every village must have a tourist community. I forgot the number you said 300 last time and 313 tourist communities. [[Clip incursion: 13]] So we have a 6-ouncer, 5, how many now, 500-600 JLS, each other has their own tourist community, that's not necessary. And that rationalization is what I'm talking about. And then when I was maybe a little bit out of this place and I was too sharp and I said how much there was, you didn't answer me, official cars, how many secretaries, how many ramsticks there were, steaks ate all over the world because I know what I'm talking about, because from some selenda he's the head of the tourist community, he's got 0 tourists or very few tourists, but Mr. and Mrs. ate, I don't know, in Paris at the 17 steak fair. You know about that case, that's what I'm talking about, and that's the problem that needs to be solved. Some great cities like my Sibenik and such as small Vodice, but the tourist town of Vodice they must have a tourist community, it is not questionable at all, it is not questionable at all, but now I will not name any city or village that thinks I have something against that city or the municipality, but from 313 I would say that there is half of these to be abolished by decree, by decree. With that, now it's not even your job, it's actually a job of local self-government, city or county that founded the tourist community that they care about what's done and mostly don't run it. So you have the authority to see what's done. Okay, maybe you can explain later. So, every rationalization, even this one we welcome, so this is rationalization, but I don't think we should have a little scissors cut here, but we'd need a scalpel one to cut it off and that's how it's supposed to be. Most of the time, I will also commend all tourist workers who work hard in the tourist communities of larger and smaller tourist centres, but another sharp criticism of thousands of arrests in tourist communities that do nothing but just paralyze the tourism sector. And here I am going to say that HTZ means doing a good job, and let it be better, we can't be satisfied.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25398	Mrs. Devereaux. Boška Ban Vlahek will speak on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25399	Dear Vice President, Your Honor. Herman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. The SDP Club will support and support any initiative that achieves a reduction of non-taxable and parafiscal givings, and which redundancies the Croatian economy administratively, fiscally and parafiscally because each discharge means an incentive for more successful business, especially in situations of crisis situations such as this caused by the coronary epidemic of the virus. All those affected by the fall in income will thus be facilitated by business and will be helped to maintain liquidity. However, as with any initiative, solutions should be proposed in such a way as to be complete and useful, not in a way that offers ad hoc solutions that do not offer compensation to those who are damaged in these solutions in terms of reducing planned revenues. In particular, I think about providing opportunities for tourism communities on the continent, or in tourist underdeveloped areas, to replace these funds with revenue-generating activities and not to be imposed on economic operators. This bill directly threatens the sustainability of most continental tourist communities, cities and municipalities without giving them the opportunity to gain self-sustainability. Currently, tourist communities have been deprived of the possibility of applying to aid measures related to the reduction of business activity caused by the Covid-19 pandemic, although they are largely disabled in their regular activities, as I find illogical and unacceptable as a longtime participant in the tourist system and sector. I believe that the way the tourism communities operate and finance the system itself will have to change because this very current way of functioning of the system is really hard to sustain. Therefore, I think that if there are further outflows of financial resources from the system and it is not defined, the tourist communities will not be able to respond to the challenges posed by trends and new situations in the tourism industry. On the one hand, the reduction of the tourist membership fee is positively accepted because tourist membership fees imposed on the economy should also be motivated on the other hand by stakeholders in the TZ to act as quickly as possible and to act effectively to achieve other revenues, which should enable the concept of TZ action on an economic basis, which will certainly help their action and roles in achieving the objectives. The membership fee we view as a parafiscal imposition is a great burden to all, but the concept of TZ is not invented to be a burden but to improve and stimulate the tourist offer in their area, and thus directly positively affect the income of their members and founders or businessmen in the tourist activity. We are a society that is inclined to talk about abolishing or reducing obligations, but without discussing the measure of things or the justification of the reasons for which they exist and what their purpose is. Tourism is an important economic component that is linked to many activities and whose importance we must not ignore, but rather use it as an important driver for the development of the entire economy of the Republic of Croatia. I would like to stress that this government has shown in its work so far that tourism has been used to praise the economic results for which it is primarily responsible for people who are engaged in tourism, but when concrete legal measures need to encourage the development of tourism and to come up with solutions that will further motivate this sector to adopt measures that are inadequate and undeveloped and are actually burdening future tourism development. For this speaker, several times the thesis has been mentioned that the TZ system is a parallel system that serves to entangle and spend millions of kuna on travel without effect. As a long-standing employee in the system, she could not agree with her colleagues. Not all TZs are in the same position, neither work under the same circumstances, nor are all tourist employees of the arrests. These are hardworking people who work well for their communities as regards the development of tourism, and they really couldn't agree with some of the issues of colleagues. I believe that, as with all complex systems, it is necessary to find a way to make the same permanent improvement either through rationalisation or improvement of work and impact which can be achieved through strategic approach, analysis and the creation of legal frameworks for their better functioning. TZ must be further digitised and offer a far greater number of services than those currently operating and offering. Competition should also be introduced into the tourism community system. It is important to stress that units of local and regional self-government should use dedicated means of payment of tourist tax and membership fees for tourist purposes. In order to develop the tourist potential of a particular area, which is often used in practice to harm the development of TZ, as well as to economics in tourism activity and local population. In conclusion, I would point out once again that we support any measure that facilitates the business of economic operators, with the need to provide other sources of financing to those economic operators that contribute or facilitate the economic activity that TZ certainly is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25400	Thank you, too. It is Mr. Darko Klasic's turn to speak on behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSLS and Reformists. He's gone. He's losing his right. Mr. Antun Kleman will speak on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25401	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. Madam Secretary of State, I warmly welcome you all. Here is the final text of the law on reducing the parafiscal burden of tourist membership by 12%. All that we have already said, here is the secretary of state and colleagues on behalf of clubs and in the previous debate, it is evident that according to the government of the Republic of Croatia's action plan, the Ministry of Tourism has taken steps and reduced the parafiscal imposing therefore on tourism membership by 12% and a number of other steps towards the same and this initiative is indeed to welcome. I would definitely like us to determine whether we want to take off parafiscal intrusions or not to want parafiscal intrusion. In the public space of the last days we've heard a great deal of our entrepreneurs demand the abolition of parafiscal duties and simply this law does so. It must be gradual, therefore, gradually abolishing parafiscal intrusion because of the TZ system that is doing extremely important work in branding and advertising our tourism products on the world market, as well as on the domestic market. Therefore, we must do this carefully, and I think that the approach taken by the Ministry of Tourism is good and definitely has to be taken into account in the way in which the parafiscal impose will be abolished, not only because entrepreneurs are made easier by doing business in the Republic, because, as Dretar said, it is definitely a small amount of the total amount paid by entrepreneurs in the Republic of Croatia, but there are a lot of parafiscal burdens so that every parafiscal imposition in one part of this way is removed, and I think we should all agree that this is a good step in this direction. But also a colleague from the SDP told one truth, which is that it should definitely be taken care of continental TZ. The continental TZ will be safe with the removal of this intrusion severely damaged. This should also be considered in the framework of the Ministry of Tourism and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the substitution of these revenues so that TZ can function and I do not agree with those who say TZ are such a burden to tourist employees. They're primarily support, but there are exceptions where simply TZ don't do their job properly. This will certainly not be resolved by the government of the Republic of Croatia or the Ministry of Tourism of the Republic of Croatia, and no other organisation within the Government of the Republic of Croatia will solve it, therefore, by the MEPs. If someone is not satisfied with the work of TZ has the instruments to improve the work of TZ but these are those who pay for such duties within the house to improve work and they simply have to organize themselves and find their focus exactly how to order and what is interesting to promote their end and how best to use their funds that pay into the budget of TZ. It is also true that TZ cannot carry out economic activity, it would be nonsensical. If you give from some income to TZ that you finance these same TZ from your activity so they will immediately be your competition in another situation, it would really not be right and I am absolutely against it, and TZ have their tasks and those if they want, if they know how to do well they will find their focus in that whole story and will know very well their tasks carried out on the market. I have to say that TZ, and especially HTZ has done a very good job on the world market in this time of crisis. We are further in this tourist season which has been extremely demanding to step out in our recognizableness and have been in this bad story, if I can conditionally say the winner of the tourist year in Europe. To this we must be really proud that we have found a modernity along with the Government of the Republic of Croatia when we felt little that epidemiological measures can be released and we have managed to attract a large number of tourists to our coast. We need to be honest that they are tourists who came with their cars, they are mainly our car destinations, we are talking about Istria and the Croatian coast, the Primorje-Gorski County and everything there is to be welcomed. So the role of HTZ and the role of regional TZ was crucial in promoting the Republic of Croatia and we have to admit it, so the indicators speak for themselves, and we are extremely pleased that we had this system and this has proved to be good. It is also true that the law provides for TZs which do not have their justification for the conditional existence that they can be combined, so a TZ can be created between cities and municipalities so that they can promote their space as best as possible, their comparative tourist advantages, all that tourist employees think, entrepreneurs from that area should be highlighted in favour of attracting guests to their areas. And I think the law makes that clear, and I think that's the possibility that as many of our TZs as we should approach, but it's also not a solution in itself, but it needs to definitely find the highest-quality personnel who know how to valorize it. In any case, to return to the law itself, we at HDZ support this bill and we will support it and I think it is one contribution to our economy where we remove one part of the parafiscal charge and certainly will come the day when more membership fees will be parafiscal, tourist membership fees for the Croatian economy. But we must also now think about how we are going to resuscitate this revenue for continental TZ which will surely be in the problem of financing itself, and here I am now asking the Ministry of Tourism and the Government of the Republic of Croatia to think about it and here I hope that all discussions will go in the direction of improving our tourist product not only in criticism because this is a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Tourism but knowing that Croatian tourism is for now our strongest economic branch that in this sense should lead these discussions. Thank you very much again.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25402	Thank you. Now, Mr. and Honorable Representative Davor Dretar will speak on behalf of the House of Homeland Movement Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25403	Your Honor, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues. That's a nice hello, everybody. So we start with one obvious finding as well as Mr. Kliman said, tourism is the most important economic branch of Croatia, it is doubtless and so it is. And I am pleased and I hope that today we will discuss here in a reasonable, reasoned manner, with no raised tones because the future of tourism must, of course, be considered reasonable and must also be allowed through an economic and legislative framework to move forward. It is clear to all of us that, in order to say domestically, you can take serious money. Of course, tourism should be divided into several groups, I am not competent enough or living in these areas to talk about tourism on the Adriatic coast, about large TZ being those in cities or in large tourist centres from Istria, Central or South Dalmatia which undoubtedly have to exist and many of them are doing outstanding work. I will turn to some other tourism branches, such as naturally continental tourism and this good idea of joining green and blue Croatia not only through tourism but through economic cooperation, but also through tourism offer. Croatia is not such a big country that we cannot offer our tourists on the Adriatic coast day, two-day, three-day trips to the continent of Croatia. That's what you're offering now, of course, sometimes somewhere you don't. He mentioned Mr. Kleman and small TZ who often don't have much to offer. I will also mention, of course, that of domestic tourism, which from foreign companies can produce serious results. I worked as a guide, as a manager for many companies that have taken over, most often these weekends are weekends going on Fridays, coming back on Sundays, going the whole company, bus two or three. It was always a question of where it was going, most of course when we talk about the continent we're talking about Slavonia or possibly some Međimurje-Zagorje tour, it's going away and it's going through a bit, it's going around, it's hanging out, it's sleeping in hotels, it's bathing people in the pool, it's all great. However, continental tourism needs great support from both TZ and Government and, above all, support from local self - government units and, of course, through money. We cannot expect TZ to invest several dozen or even hundreds of millions of kunas in the reconstruction of castles, spas or something, this must be done by the Government or by public money, by taxpayers' money and thus by extending the offer. I really want to talk here in peaceable tones and as 20-year-olds so I can say hello to a tourist employee from this pay phone and some cities, places and municipalities where it really works. Here, for example, in Beliss, there was an Ethno village called Bocatsci, which began to attract people. All of Baranja, I come to Baranja and I came before the Homeland War and it is wonderful to see the development of Baranja as almost well an elite tourist destination that is really developing and offering, the quality of accommodation, is very important for Baranja and hunting tourism which could be even more real and much more profitable and hopefully also be. In two, three months, we'll have a carnival time, I've been working with the Great Gorica TZ, Samobor, the Holy Sunday, so all this stuff that's around here, and both Jastrebarski and there, people are working hard, and they should be commended, they deserve it. In the area of Mrs. Crescent. Ban Vlahek in Međimurje I had the honour of working with St. Martina at Mura, unfortunately our ERZIKE is no longer she was one unique in that area, but we'll have to somehow know to move on without her. Novigrad on the Sea has connected both the gastronomic and enological and tourist offer of the entire Central Dalmatia and there they work great and should be commended. Here I read today in the paper that a fantastic investment of the Old Mine is moving in Labin where tourists will descend 166m below ground and I believe it will be another remarkable tourist product, but of course it should be invested. The state should make it possible to expand the tourist offer, but yet not all of it can be in roses and flowers because the fact is that some TZ work extraordinaryly, some TZ does not earn even for wages. I suggest that we all try to agree together on the establishment of a system of excellence assessment, whether we can do this to a respected lady and secretary of state and all those who are here I think we can talk a little bit about simply telling people, let's get to work or even better to ask them how we can help you, what we can do to make your end better, better quality, wider tourist offer. I come from the 3rd Election Unit Croatia Zagorje also has fantastic tourist potentials, located very close to Zagreb, close to Zagreb airport, are located near Slovenia of course, the Italians can come to us, the Austrians can come to us whoever they want. We are still unfortunately, let's say so scattered on small TZ by municipalities and a few more serious ones, we do not have that right support, and we have the potential to become a serious tourist region, if we would naturally circle the story of tourist offer, accommodation, various events throughout the year, and there we really have everything. Our historical offers of our museums, our history of Krapina Prak man, of course, I have serious tourist aids. Here to entertain you for a moment, I don't know if you know that in the town of Oroslavlje there is a Museum of Wines, it's no wonder that it is in Zagorje, but it is a wonder that there was found an okama of vines about two million years old there, so please in future discussions in Croatia who first started with the wine line, please nice hat down Zagorci. Thank you very much. However, as the Homeland Movement, we would like to see in the future, in a way, the continuation of the rate reduction and, of course, the raising of the obligation to pay the membership fee of TZ. We know it's a little bit, and Mr. Kleman said it, and we're all aware of it, if I didn't get a chance to check it out this year, I think because of the little traffic, I'm paying some 200 kuna a year, so 24 kuna savings aren't exactly something, but of course on big economic operators you can see it. As Mrs Ban Vlahek said, in the area of her TZ income was about a million and a half kuna a year because there are strong economic operators there. One of the much simpler ways to finance TZ and to make tourism a truly profitable economic branch here on the continent is of course to let them work, invest in our content, and to raise the economy, is to make it possible for them to work better and easier. So I'd like to conclude, let TZ become our futuristic communities. Thanks for listening.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25404	Thank you, too. ..this understood, a two million-year-old vine? I think you should check, but fine. [[Intruder Dretar: Yes.]] We learn something new every day. Mr. Zeljko Lenart in front of the Club of Representatives of HSS and HSU. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25405	Dear Vice President, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Tourism is an extremely important branch for the Republic of Croatia, it is clear to you all, although we should not allow it as a serious state for tourism to be our most important economic branch, it should be economy and agriculture. But this does not mean that tourism does not need to develop more than we do today. Tourism, tourism is an experience for a guest in a destination, and the experience is the bed where you sleep, the bathroom where you bathe, the food you consume, the maintenance of the staff in which you live, the arrangement of the destination where you move, natural beauty and other beauty you come to enjoy, and when you are happy to leave Croatia, then you are the best advertising for Croatia. In order for this to be a great deal of factors to be included in tourism, all must be well composed of city administrations, from tourist communities, from catering facilities, accommodation facilities owned by both foreigners and Croatian citizens. So tourism is one complex activity that is often easily accepted and often happens to us on its own. I had a chance to stay for two years. in the Ministry of Tourism, I have met many wonderful workers, entrepreneurs in tourism, enthusiasts, lovers of natural beauty, just all these experiences that I have listed, who are trying to illustrate to their guests in the best possible light of Croatia and all that we provide as a tourist country. Then we get to this economic part where money is always important to all things agree. Our JLS leaders, commissioners, mayors and mayors who, unfortunately, often realize that they are tourist communities and their Pear agencies and that they must edit all events in a way that promote their leader, some say local sheriffs, sometimes unfortunately and so. Often it is a call to tourist communities, these people do nothing but spend money, which may be so, very rarely, but here as the director of the county tourist community in association with other directors and employees I have met many people who are really in love with this job and are working hard no matter how much money they have at their disposal, the more you contribute to the development of tourism. They are practically very often competing with each other who will better do certain things, who will bring more innovation into their tourist community. Now we come to this 12% reduction, which for the businessmen, as Mr. Dretar said, doesn't mean God knows what, practically nothing. I therefore repeat the one I repeat and the other laws where these parafiscal claims are reduced that we must introduce to the Republic of Croatia that our entrepreneur pays one payment to the state and that he knows exactly how much he gives to the state, and that the state then with its administrative apparatus, with today's software support, can very easily allocate funds to the users who belong there and also to the tourist communities. Today we have developed tourist communities in developed tourist areas and tourist communities in underdeveloped areas. I purposely said developed tourist communities because in developed areas this fee is quite a large membership fee, so the revenues of these tourist communities are large and they have excellent means for their work, but then we come to the continent, the continental tourism that the helmet for coastal tourism and that very helmet is, these are our undeveloped tourist areas, and then the tourist communities have very small resources to make some kind of shift. The Tourist Board of Sisak-Moslavina County, where I used to be the director, has a membership fee available somewhere cca. 200,000 kn, which is very little for one of the largest counties, and the county that has Moslavačka gora, which has Lonjsko polje, which has Banovina with Topusco and not now lists all the various tourist destinations and offers it can have, so I believe that this one payment could make the state more justly allocate funds to tourist communities and then this continental tourism that we've been talking about for so long and we're developing it, but unfortunately it doesn't move in those frameworks of wishes that we have, nor the frameworks of needs that are being sought and of interest from people from other neighbouring countries who would like to remind the exactly and continent of the Republic of Croatia. We are such a small country when we compare ourselves to Russia, to the United States, and so we have to think and so that the Republic of Croatia is from one end to the other very short period of time it is necessary that this distance be crossed and that this development of continental tourism can only be complemented by this development of coastal tourism that is already getting a little crowded, often the offer becomes a little bit and a monoton and should be complemented in this synergy with tourism on the continent. Tourist workers in tourist communities have a lot of obligations for those who want to work, and as I said many who want to, there is also a visitor they are dealing with, there are shooting many promotional materials, there are many associations in the work of cooperation, but we are too little to associate the JLS tourist communities. Often, tourist communities are founded just to hire someone they want to hire, I'm not going to say a word we use all the time, but often it is. The capacity of the JLS in tourist matters is too small, but this kind of ego does not allow that association, for example, by the principle of LAGs that come together around the same interest. It is, it is the direction for tourist communities in undeveloped tourist areas that should certainly understand that they may lose some place of director, but will still remain in this system, but the interest in this community and how economic and touristic surely will be better met and that the revenues from tourism and the arrival of guests will then be far better in such a joint tourist destination. I think we need to encourage it better, but we also have to explain to JLS leaders that some of them have to give up their pirate masters they expect to have in the tourist communities. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25406	Thank you, and we're done with the club debates. Mr. Ante Bacic has his first personal discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25407	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President HS, Your Honor, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Let me take a moment to look back at what is.../The speaker turned off/... mentioned, now unfortunately he has come out, related to the association of tourist communities. When we changed the law in the last term and made it possible for these associations and encouraged those associations, it's like the other day we discussed the reform of local self-government, no one wants to abolish this municipality. It is normal and related to the tourist communities everyone thinks is the best, everyone thinks that his tourist brand is the most beautiful in its area, so as far as the associations themselves are concerned, I think that only the Ministry of Tourism and Sports should play a major role and simply in some areas where analysis and statistics say one thing, in different ways to encourage these associations, and even amendments to the law that in some cases it may be done. When we look at these changes to the law itself and about membership fees, we all understand this 12% reduction, and what this law actually regulates, from binding and paying membership fees themselves, but also from records, accounts and so on, and who are the bonds themselves to pay the fees. This is one of a series of laws like we've been discussing for the last two weeks, but here's a long time, so we can't and wouldn't agree with colleagues who are looking at it at it on a flat-rate basis, this is a little cut or this is a little discharge, this isn't going to make any shift. When, when we count everything and when we see from all the measures in the government's action plan since May of this year and when we see 500 million, over 500 million kunas of tax taxpayers and our entrepreneurs, when we count by the end of the year 10 billion kunas that will be left to preserve jobs, all of these are small pieces and puzzles where, by 20, 30, 10 million kunas from certain amendments, certain laws, certain sectors, here yesterday we had changes to the Law on forests related to the discharging of 30 million kuna, all of this is part of one mosaic where we get to one larger, larger numbers of discharging our entrepreneurs. So here's what I don't agree with is that we need to watch this over and over again. It's a little bit or somebody's not gonna feel it. This, the the thesis that this won't be someone and we could see it a year and two days ago when we had record tourist seasons, so that some cities intended to raise a shower to the tenants, so we had a protest of these tenants in some towns on the coast. Here and specifically in the town of Split, where tourism and rental are not bad, and yet small or more significant changes related to the pausals are, they have encountered a problem with the renter, so we can neither claim that these are small changes or that our entrepreneurs will not meet them in one positive, one positive normal way. But while we are already discussing these changes and additions, we may not have to stick exclusively to membership fees, we can also watch the final meetings of the government itself and what the Ministry of Tourism and Minister Brnjak has proposed all in order to precisely save and prepare for the future tourist season. We know that in some parts of this year's tourism community revenues have been significantly reduced, but in some parts up to 50% as in my Split-Dalmatia County, and it is good that the ministry is going to go through regulations and this year it will. In 2021, a certain tourist fund will start to pay off early, will refer to 180 local tourist communities, 14 regional, 19 formal and 6 project associations of tourist communities, that record amounts will be paid for 2020. We only watch in 2019. It was through the public calls of TZ in the underdeveloped tourist areas we discussed here that nine million kunas were paid in an indicative manner, and here at the beginning of 2021. but the tourism ministry plans to pay off 24 million kunas to encourage such neighborhoods, so I think I repeat it all, one part of the mosaics at the end that will help our economies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25408	Thank you. You have a set of replicas. It's Mrs. First. Maximchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25409	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague. TZ are doing an extremely important job in branding our country, especially here, to highlight TZ on the continent that is certainly harder than on the coast. I will present one indicator of TZ Brod-Posavina County which, by the end of February 2020 and before the pandemic occurred, had a 22% increase in nighttime as well as most of the Slavonian counties. At the 30th of November this year, 60% of traffic was achieved compared to 2019. Which is a good indicator in these times. These indicators give hope to invest and promote Slavonia, guaranteeing staying in rural areas, have an ecological, social and economic component, but of course there is room for stronger promotion, but certainly there needs greater and stronger support from the state.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25410	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25411	Thank you, Vice President. Thank you, colleague Maximchuk. I agree with you, I think that's this government too, but this is what we're going to say continuity and past governments, the last few years has shown about continental tourism. We know that we had tourism days a few years ago in Hvar and that then the former minister immediately said that the next days of tourism must be in Osijek, they must be in Slavonia, we must send a message to continental tourism. It is also this regulation at the last meeting of the Government to go by the Ministry of Tourism, I will quote "TZ Revenues in 2020. As a result of the negative effects of the pandemic, many TZs were significantly reduced compared to planned ones, especially in the continental area, and many are facing liquidity problems." And that is why this package of measures from the Tourist Fund goes primarily to TZ in the continental area and I think it will help maintain and prepare for the next tourist season.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25412	Thank you. Mr. Joseph Begonja.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25413	Thank you, Vice President. A colleague of Bačić's. It is evident that in these times of crisis caused by the covid-19 in order to help the economy with its Action Plan to reduce non-taxable and parafiscal duties, the government is going to help as much as possible, but also tax. We've seen that through our circles, through our tax reform over 10 billion is left to the economy. Now this action plan, which I have said, is also a recommendation from the EU Council within the framework of the European Semester where the Republic of Croatia has committed itself to implement it with the aim of joining the European Course Mechanism 2 and the Banking Union. Do you consider the reduction of this parafiscal intrusion justified in these times?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25414	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25415	Thank you, Vice President. Thank you, colleague Begonja, for the replica. I agree with you, and I definitely support this. We know what the government of the Republic of Croatia has to do with the term of office this four years, but also the action plan that you mentioned, so at the beginning of the presentation, I pointed out that we should view this as a mosaic. We've been through several rounds of tax reform, we've been discussing recently the reform of local self-government, and now we have a package of tourism laws when we get it all together, and when we add it all together, we see that the government has been on the continuum since the beginning of this year, but in the new synergy of this summer, it's constantly following what's going on on on on the market and normally with people's health, that in the first place it's economic activity and entrepreneurial activity that can't stop and that must be in its continuity.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25416	Thank you. Mrs. Danica Baricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25417	Thank you very much, Vice President. Here is my colleague Bačić, here we come from Split-Dalmatia County and which is highly developed in tourism and its revenues are large from tourism, so we know that there is also a developed strong TZ Split-Dalmatia County, which is certainly focusing its work on the development of tourism, creating and helping all residents to brand our county. We also know that TZ is waiting in the future, given that today we are bringing and discussing income cuts, waiting and distribution, or reducing and their incomes, TZ, and thus in the future their work programme Do you feel that these changes should be accepted in a way that brings about even more quality management? [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]] And since I'm coming from Brač Island, we have there, which is not sustainable, eight TZs. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25418	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25419	Thank you, Vice President. Thank you, colleague Baricevic, for this replica. I agree with you, I think that in Split-Dalmatia County when we look at the indicators we are at about 50% of last record season and there we can be what is said to be "relatively satisfied". Our tourist workers, you have well noted I think we are a specific county and we are the largest, we have really surrounded areas from Makarska Riviera to the island of Brac, the island of Hvar, Zagora and other areas that can definitely be joined. And here I am who relatively tourist layman can say at first that I am absolutely that for association, but it is good that from the new Ministry of Tourism fund exactly eight million kuna goes to the incentive of association of TZ, so I believe that on the island of Brac will agree that Bol will give way and we will have a strong TZ in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25420	Thank you. Mr. Zeljko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25421	Today, you again presented a thesis that does not stand, no one from the opposition has called for the abolition of local self-government, local self-government, JLS, and no one is causing the removal of tourist communities. [[Speaker not enabled]] It's actually some kind of realization and merger and unification organization. A little while ago, you and your colleague were talking about the need to unite some communities in order to see different effects, to reduce the giving of these members of our tourist communities, given that we believe, indeed, most of us feel that not all of us have to be members of these tourist communities, but those who benefit from it. Every businessman is expecting some kind of money and some kind of input into his firm. If giving money sucks doesn't see the reason why that money is given, that's all it's about.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25422	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25423	Thank you, Vice President. Thanks, buddy. in this replica, there I only made one comment in the beginning to compare the tourism and this reform of local self-government. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] I agree with you in the part that, naturally, absolutely rationalization needs to be supported when we talk about municipalities and cities, and when we talk to tourist communities or any reform that awaits us or perhaps the EU conditions us. We would not agree with you certain opposition clubs on any reform, it was tax, it was local, it was touristic, from any other sector, for this speaker first rises and the first comment "it should be lifted", "it should be closed", "it should be shut down", "it should be shut down", "if it is not self-sustainable should be absolutely closed", I think it is not the way. I agree with you, the path is to streamline and cost and all the resources we have in certain areas, either through tourism or through any other sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25424	Time, thank you. Mrs. Devereaux. Mariana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25425	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague of Bačić, the ministry also brought assistance measures to people who provide catering services in households and in the OPGs, prescribed the level of annual flat-rate membership fee in 2020, so that it is reduced by 50% and that the annual flat-rate fee is not paid on extra beds. I would also advocate that all those family economies, hotels and restaurants that offer exclusively Croatian agricultural agricultural products are further introduced tax incentives, but also rewards such as extra sunflower or starry, so in terms of categorisation it is known that those who truly provide the market for Croatian agricultural products deserve a reward and that the country encourages it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25426	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25427	Thank you, Vice President. Thank you, colleague Petyr. You have well noted on the replica this very amendment of this law regarding both household catering services and for the first time related to the OPGs. I know that you are a great advocate not only of the OPGs but also of normal healthy food and domestic Croatian products. When we get out, and I believe by the spring that we're going to get out of all these problems, that we're going to have to prepare intensively for the tourist season that here and now when we think and analyze what's waiting for us in summer we can hardly be this difficult we can be sure of certain things, but I think that after all these measures to save and maintain the liquidity of our entrepreneurs and businessmen, especially small OPGs, the next step should be that. We should simply relieve anyone who uses Croatian products in any way, especially food [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25428	Thank you very much. Mrs. Devereaux. Branka Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25429	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear counterpart Bačić, among other things, you talked about almost all the charges that we want to help our economy, the reduction in the profit tax to the charges we talk about yesterday and today regarding the amendments to the Law on Forests and today the Law on Memberships in Tourist Communities. We've heard criticism that it's a slight discharge. However, we must not forget everything we expect from these tourist communities that are also one of the incomes and tourist memberships. Because at the time of this health and economic crisis, at which time we will need additional and effort and work to promote us as best as possible, so that we can at least return to those figures and record tourist seasons we had in 2019 compared to '18, '18. compared to '17.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25430	Thank you, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25431	Thank you, Vice President. Thank you, fellow Jurichev-Martinchev. You come from the same beautiful neighborhood in Sibenik-Knin County, a beautiful little town so you know exactly what you're talking about. We can't stop everything. In terms of both here and last night until 3:30, the health system was also debated, if we abolish everything and parafiscal burdens and taxes such as some, some opposition clubs suggest, which will remain and still exist from education and health so that we cannot think in this way and we cannot condemn the tourist communities in the beginning. Here's a colleague, Kleman, speaking on behalf of the club, we just need to see the statistics so that our entrepreneurs, renters, hotelers, passed away without tourist communities, without any collective story from the Ministry of Tourism, and we know what the Ministry of Tourism and the tourist community has done to brand Croatian products, and we would not be promotional in this situation. If it wasn't for that. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25432	No more replicas, Mr. Bacic, thank you. Now it's Mr. Domagoj Hajdukovic's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25433	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. We will certainly support this law, every discharge, so how little or how great it was to come and of course there are no choirs. But this is also an opportunity to talk about some of the problems and some of the challenges facing this sector both because of the crisis and beyond. In fact, listening to the debate, I heard one thesis that the government is making certain regulations concerned about the liquidity of TZ. I think it's a completely false presumption and a completely wrong approach, and what the government needs to worry about first and foremost is the liquidity of tourism-related entrepreneurs. Therefore, the liquidity of those who are primarily in the first group to pay the tourist fee, i.e. the remuneration of TZ. So we need to get out of this first because TZ doesn't exist because of itself, but because of these people. I'm very glad to hear from the secretary of state that they're thinking about redistributing funds, that the larger funds are being given to the county TZ, of course, provided they're being spent on purpose and that the cost is being monitored, but I want to tell you something else. Until TZ starts to function corporately, I'm afraid we won't have any clear and focused results. What do I mean by that? Each TZ is an entity for itself and let's just start with paperwork, so the administration has a job that's not a cor business, and that has to deal with the fact that it's an independent institution. So that's where the focus is taken. The second focus is the lack of personnel that can effectively and focus on certain promotions and certain activities. And the third, of course, lack of financial resources. A lot of local TZ simply doesn't have the resources for some more serious projects or can be imposed as such. And then what happens? I'll tell you from the field, we've got different ids to call them, so sausages, ficheids, gravits, etc. which is nice and what really enriches the social life of the local community, but neither at the county or at some wider level has any added value because I doubt that someone will come to a small municipality and beyond that municipality, possibly neighbouring municipalities, so no foreign tourist will come, nor will I know a tourist from another region, nor will a tourist from Zagreb come. Therefore, the visibility and significance of such manifestations is micro, micro-local. On the other hand, I believe that tourists will come both outside Croatia and from other parts of Croatia. Therefore, without the corporate structure, without a clear hierarchy and without a clear and clear direction of money in the tourist sector, I am afraid we will not achieve the results we would like. And it's clear that one gravid can't be ranked with the Vinkovsky fall, it's clear that one fichid can't be ranked with the Sinj Alk because that's just the way it is. In order to effectively target the limited resources available for branding and promoting tourism, we need to have a clear plan, so it has to go from top to bottom, or it can go backwards as far as the proposal is concerned, but at one point when we have a plan, it needs to be printed, pushed at all levels. And I'm sure TZ Vinkovac or Djakova doesn't have enough resources to promote the Vinkova fall and the Đakova bonds both efficiently and efficiently, at least not at the level at which these manifestations deserve it. And since I am running out of time just one more statement on funding, so as far as mandatory membership fees are concerned, I think that the first group of current taxpayers should definitely continue to pay the membership fee while the 2nd, 3rd, 4th and 5th group should be voluntary. This is primarily because of many technical problems because some of the activities of the large company are forced to pay a tourist tax, enter the TZ Assembly, and in fact have no understanding or are not at all interested in the problems facing tourism, which then leads to major congestion and problems in the functioning of TZ. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25434	Thank you, too. Mr. Ante Bacic's first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25435	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Hajduković, I believe that you were on the Days of Tourism in Osijek some time ago and compared here with a large and small event, only when we look at the days of tourism that were in Osijek how much the city and the county have been converted. But let's compare the data from 4, 5 years ago and today related to the tourism of Osijek-Baranja County and all the OPGs and numerous entrepreneurs who developed during that period in your opinion, and I would like you to a little bit and praise your TZ, but also all the efforts of the county and the projects it has imposed and together with the Ministry of Tourism. I think now Osijek, and a few years ago, only now, if we look at tourism, I think we can see any shifts and related to the offer itself, but related to the number of tourists visiting your beautiful county. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25436	Thank you. Time. Here you go, Mr. Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25437	Thank you, dear colleague Bacic. Well, if I'd remembered for a little while longer and longer, I'd have followed this problem and I wouldn't have limited myself to four or five years, I'd have watched it over a period of at least 10 years. And the truth is that our offer has been significantly enriched but I will again draw your attention to that doing TZ Osijek-Baranja County and a lot of projects came from exactly that TZ and a lot of really focused promotional manifestations TZ Osijek-Baranja County managed to make. That wouldn't have worked, so that's what I was talking about, that wouldn't have worked out little TZ, say, Drenje Municipality, where I'm constantly taking neither guilty nor due, or some other small TZ without the support of one roof organization that can then focus, can expertise and can financially stand behind the promotion, like the Days of Wine and Tourism that are a great event in Osijek.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25438	Thank you. Mr. Joseph Begonja.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25439	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Hajdukovic, you pointed out how much I managed to write here first that TZ locals do not have professional personnel, that they also represent their own promoters to locals, I will not tell the sheriffs, but let's say the mayors or the mayors. I'll just tell you a few details because it's short notice. At the age of 15. There are three directors of the tourist office in Drniš, none of them were members of HDZ, all 3 have colleges completed, the last one actually has two colleges. Thanks to the partner relationship, the tourist community has been a partner for 3 European projects in Drniš. We started with the development of tourism on the edges of the NP Krka, etc., but thanks to them we are one of 5 cities in Croatia, unlike Slovenia where almost every city is, we are a member of the World Green Destination Let me tell you, the truth works in Croatia is that Little Losinj, [[Intruder: Thank you]] Krk, Delnice, Drniš city and another city, but also in Idan [[/Intruder: Thank you, Mr. Begonja.]] We are among 5 cities in this promotion of a European tourist destination of excellence. [[Intruder: Mr. Begonja]] I could talk more. But it's a short time. [[Intruder: Mr. Begonja is a little]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25440	Mr. Hajdukovic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25441	Thank you very much. Well, colleague Begonja, I didn't mention it, but good. As far as these sheriffs are concerned, I didn't mention a word of it, you said, three directors in a very short time, I don't know what was going on. But I want to tell you, therefore, local tourist communities, of course, have some extraordinary people, but some don't, some have only one man who's loaded with both administration and I don't know, the presence of a municipal council and what I don't know and a lot of things drags him away or drags him away from what he's supposed to do. What I wanted to say is that we need to round up and join forces, not defile them because I'm sure now here, I don't know who's there, maybe a man is really great, but in TZ Drenje means doing one man, which he can physically do if no different. And then how many people you've got who aren't just trained enough to deal with the modern challenges of reciting tourism destination. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25442	Thank you. Mrs. Devereaux. Grozdana Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25443	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, dear colleague. So here I can't agree with you in the part where you say that the tourist communities in the cities even though I come from such an area that these small manifestations are insignificant to or are not so important. Because every guest who comes into the local environment wants to feel that environment and wants to get acquainted with the gastro or any other culture of the region. It is also very important that in previous amendments to the law, it is possible to connect more tourist communities, thus encouraging them to be able to jointly organise programmes and projects that will then have much greater visibility for the outside and otherwise to the guests, and here in this sense it is very important. And tracking liquidity certainly should be like, and that government does with all these aids and small companies, then tourism communities. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25444	Thank you very much. Mr. Hajdukovic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25445	That these fellow Members, the yads I mentioned or the micro events can work for the municipalities themselves, for which they do not need the tourist community, will actually save money and will be able to invest more in this event if they do not have a tourist community, now I am a cartoon. But in order to organize something so micro character that only residents of the municipality or possibly neighbouring municipalities come to do so, you don't need any special marketing, and at least you need a tourist community to do so. That's not the point of the tourist community. The other thing is about association, that it's made possible on an informal level, and it's already happening, so there's some things going on. But I repeat again, without a corporate structure, I don't think we're going to have any bigger, bigger shifts because you know that human relations and human relations always play a role with us, if two directors of the tourist community argue, there are problems. That we have a clear structure They could cooperate. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25446	Thank you very much. Mrs. Devereaux. Mariana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25447	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Hajdukovic, you spoke of various levels of events from local, national to international. I would say that each of these events binds to itself additional activities and additional offers, so they should be seen wider because they do not have all manifestations of the same objectives, they do not, of course, have the same level of budget. But the purpose of the activities being carried out can be multifunctional because tourism itself is not a purpose. Through tourism can be presented as a destination, but all that valuable hands of our people produce and create our excellent domestic food, our cultural heritage, our tradition, the identity of the Croatian people. So every event when you look at it she may from the perspective of representatives in HS look banal and local, but she has more content. The sausage in Petrinja shows the tradition of the petrinj region in the production of sausages and attracts not only the Petrinjce It's a lot of others. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25448	Thank you. Mr. Hajdukovic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25449	Well, obviously you misunderstood me. So I wasn't underestimating, not just you, but some other colleagues and colleagues, I wasn't underestimating those micro-local manifestations. However, they enrich the lives of the community and, as you said to yourself, bind a whole series of other activities. So in various festivals, on various idolatrys as I call them, it's often activated and a large number of crafts, large, so local, large number of OPGs, etc., so it has economic significance, we're talking micro and local again. But what you're talking about, so it's not the city, because it's the city that has more financial capacity and organisational capacity that can organize something like that. And for these local micro events, we actually don't need a tourist community, so it's not the sense of the tourist community, at least not the way I see it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25450	Thank you. Mr. Anton Kleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25451	Thank you very much. Well, here's a colleague, you're partly right when you say that some manifestations are their own purpose. Therefore, tourist communities are designed as destination organisations, so as management of destination. We have cases, I assume it's yours, that your intervention was for a case on the continent of some of the smaller tourist communities that are the purpose, that are doing manifestations that are the purpose of themselves. Definitely, if we don't have a target where we shoot, which clientele we shoot and what we do with it, this destination management of ours to attract guests to, to, to, to, to, to our municipality or city where the tourist community works, then we haven't done a good job. On the other hand, we have the need and purpose that our tourist communities on the coast really do a very good job when they present everything they offer from their fields to get to know to meet guests and also attract them next year [[Intruder: Thank you]] to discover even greater sights from its end. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25452	Thank you very much. Mr. Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25453	Well, colleague Kliman, I absolutely agree with you, you're right and we can't and it's hard to compare tourist communities on land and tourist communities at sea, so where tourism is much more developed. And I agree with you and I repeat again, so micro manifestations have their added value, I'm not talking about it, but globally speaking, we don't need a tourist community, at least not a bath, so on the kind of tourism that we have here. As far as orientation is concerned, you said well that tourist communities should promote destination and that makes sense, so when we talk about our coast and where tourist and less tourist communities of smaller places have resources that can be relatively focused on promotion. This is not the case with continental tourism, and we need a different approach, primarily the rounding, and then the county tourist community. They need to play their part. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25454	And finally, Mr. Željko Pavić
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25455	Your Honor, your Honor, here's the thing. I'd just like to try to get a few things done. It's just that these events and events actually become micro events and manifestations because they're simply not connected, you can't have a tenth then a colleague that you have in one village or a place in Slavonia sausage, and in the other at the same time, I caricate, I don't know, the culenia. Why is that the same day? So if they're connected, if they want to attract, draw people to their end, let them attract one, one to one place, the other to another place, and there'll be two, two times this big event. This is how you have two small events in one day, and that doesn't make sense, which is why you need a rounding, which is why you need communities to connect, to cooperate, and to go out together towards tourists.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25456	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25457	Thank you, thank you very much. My colleague, I couldn't agree more. Of course you have good examples where micro environments can create and brand a certain event, but very rarely they can do it themselves, so they do it in cooperation with either the surrounding tourist communities or with the county tourist communities. Here's an example for me, it's KulenDayz in Jagodnjak who's already branded and imposed himself as one serious event about tasting, buying exactly this product, and of course a whole series of other follow-up activities. But you said well without cooperation, without planning, without vision, there is unfortunately no bread because I realize that every place wants to have its day, it's clear, here's its Fieru Festu, the event etc., but if we don't approach it systematically and plannedly then, as you said, all of them will sink somewhere in impersonality and eventually no one will have... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25458	Thank you. Thank you very much. We don't have any more replicas, and now it's Mr. Zeljko Pavić's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25459	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues. I'd just like to explain a little bit more, ma'am. Peric you are down from Zadar, if I am not mistaken from the vicinity of Zadar this example of Pasman. If you're on Pasman in the summer and if you happen to have a problem in Kono on Saturday night, Peter Gras, and you have a Grdovic in Pasman, that's the problem, isn't it? They're not happy with each other. So we need to connect, they need to connect, they're two tourist communities, they need to connect and cooperate, and they'll be better both. And the inhabitants will be better; there will be more traffic. But to go back to the subject I wanted to talk about. We all actually agreed that this was a parafiscal imposition, we didn't agree on whether it should be mandatory or be voluntary, and it's certainly a subject to be discussed in the future because I believe that the government and all the other factors are thinking about whether you and such parafiscals should be imposed or abolished or actually be voluntary. Why the mandatory membership fee? Why must we be members of something that is absolutely no use to us? They're actually questions that entrepreneurs ask themselves, and they don't actually have answers. Here's an example. Trade in large agricultural raw materials and live cattle pays tourist fees and membership fees. I mean, it really doesn't make sense. So such, such, such business entities really don't see the point, they don't see the meaning of this for paying membership fees, and I think we should take care of it. And what Domagoj said, that the first group should be mandatory, and the others to be either voluntary or simply to them, to the rest of the groups to put an end to it. Do tourist communities make sense? They certainly do, I think they should exist with that some should simply connect to this or that they should join together. It is necessary to change the effects of the work of tourist communities and, in line with the results of the tourist community, it will become more recognizable and recognizable in its environments, it will also be able to recognise the impact on the local economy and will also be recognised to economic operators, and they will be easier to allocate money for something they benefit from and have additional incomes. If the entrepreneur doesn't see it, if he doesn't see new revenues, he doesn't see the logic of giving money for services he doesn't use or of which there are no new additional revenues that he wouldn't even have that the tourist community doesn't exist. There are, of course, good, successful, innovative, entrepreneurial tourist communities that certainly help and develop tourism with their activities, and especially what we have heard before and what I definitely agree with, and especially other economic branches, and that is what we should work on, we should insist on, and in this direction we should push these tourist communities to help everyone in reality. If tourism is going to be good, if it has effects in tourism, it will certainly benefit other economies in these areas. Such tourist communities should, in fact, be a benchmark to them and their results should compare the work of other tourist communities that exist for the time being, unfortunately, only as a form. I know some of you will say that the tourist communities are setting up local JLSs, so let them control them, but since the government is proposing a law by which membership fees should also define requirements for tourist communities and define their measurable results. So the question arises whether or not for this law is definitely that because one giving of our businessmen is being reduced, as well as the appeal that the law is changing as soon as possible as possible in the direction that membership is voluntary and that tourist communities are being paid off at all levels of existence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25460	Thank you, too. You have several replicas. The first replica has a Mrs. Crescent. Boška Ban Vlahek.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25461	Dear colleague, in some things I can agree with you, in some ways I don't. First of all, I think that for several times I would have corrected most of the speakers who in this assembly say that the founders of tourist communities are persistent JLS, that is not true. So, the founders of the tourist communities are right We have repeated this, but I would like to repeat it so that once we remember that it really has nothing to do with the establishment of tourist communities, no city, no county. [[I know.]] What she would like to say, as well as counterpart Hajdukovic said in his debate, tourist communities should co-operate. The example from my Međimurje from which I come is that we have excellent cooperation and the very tourist communities of the county are which should surround and place all the tourist communities in the area and this is my colleague Rudi Grula from the tourist community of Međimurje County and Mrs. Sandra Heman, who's been here recently. in the tourist system they do [[Intruder: Thank you]] So yet there are, I'm sorry, but I have to finish, just please allow it, there are environments that do it and that are trying, and unfortunately some don't. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25462	I know you have to finish, but it's not me who wrote the Rules of Procedure but two parties, mostly two parties to this assembly. Here you go, Mr. Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25463	I know, I know my colleagues, and thank you for warning me. I got it wrong, I know that's what economic operators set up to mean in JLS. No one from the other JLS will come to this JLS to participate in the organization or in the establishment of the tourist community, all of which we know, I apologize wrongly for expressing myself. However, this second part of the connection you talked about is good, and so said counterpart Hajdukovic. Our communities, the tourist communities should actually function as corporations. You should know who's leading, who's leading, where certain activities are going in a local self-government, which is going to be the results, which is going to be the ones he wants to attract, so that's what we need to talk about. Without that coordination, he has little use.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25464	Thank you. Mr. Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25465	... Your Honor, Vice President. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, here's a colleague of mine you've mentioned quite well this dilemma that appears on the ground, which is who has to pay the tourist membership fee and whether someone has to pay the tourist membership fee. This is where you mentioned trade in agricultural equipment. So there's more to what I'm saying, one payment for the economy to the state. He'd have simpler bookkeeping, he'd be more satisfied, and it'd be easier to control his payment. On the other hand, in tourist-developed areas, the main income of tourist communities is tourist tax, it is paid by every guest and that is fine. Unfortunately, tourist undeveloped areas have very little in this regard, sometimes insignificant. But the dissatisfaction with the businessmen is why I have to pay, I have nothing to do with it. However, many who feel that way have connections, but do not want to admit Thank you. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25466	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25467	Thank you, buddy. Definitely this store on large agricultural raw materials and live cattle probably has nothing to do with the tourist community. However, what you mentioned, I agree with you would be far simpler if there were a single payment card and there was some analysis based on which these funds would then be allocated at the state level to local self-government, far simpler, far more quality solution for entrepreneurs, given the management of accounting and bookkeeping, and also after that the state could channel funds towards what they are, what trends in which local self-government is. There is no point in investing money for tourism in environments where it is not available and will not be compared to Dalmatia where it is certainly necessary and where that money is needed.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25468	Thank you. Mr. Anton Kleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25469	Thank you very much, Vice President. A fellow Pavić, so you said in an intervention in your speech that it was illogical for someone who imported live cattle, if I understood correctly, so kind of a formulation was, to pay a tourist membership fee. You know that in the course of this pandemic which was, it has proved that definitely tourism is the generator of very large tourism, economic activities in Croatia, and among other things such activities. Now imagine when someone imports live cattle for the needs of the industry in the Republic of Croatia, as well as tourism industries, how much more they bring and live cattle to Croatia so that they can service tourism needs in the Republic of Croatia, and for that reason, in the classification and mention of such activities, because the direct, direct and indirect depends on, oh, on tourism traffic in the Republic of Croatia, it is quite logical. We are highly dependent on tourism in economic terms and this, this classification has definitely its own, its logic and I think horizontal and vertical tourism is driving the economy, and in that sense there is, [[/Invader: Thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you.]] Thank you. [[Intruder: Not to say I give you privileges because you are from Istria]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25470	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25471	I agree with you, definitely what you have stated is one of the examples of the relationship between business entities and how it should look all together. However, if you'll just listen to this one, I'll tell you my position. It is that such business entities should feel it in their pocket. If he doesn't feel it in his pocket he doesn't see the benefit of why he pays for it, that's what it's about. And if he feels that he will then be a volunteer member of that tourist community and will give his money to that community. If he doesn't feel it's no use to him, there's no use for his employees, no use for the company, he's certainly not going to be a member of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25472	Thank you. Mr. Ante Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25473	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Pavić, I can agree, especially when we look at parafiscal accusations that there are certain illogicalities, but we must commend the government that has abolished hundreds of parafiscal burdens in the past few years, but I would like to warn you that we see society and the state as a whole. I must also lean on this comment by Mr. Kleman because you mentioned that trade in agricultural equipment or, or trade in it. a live livestock company, perhaps it has no direct interference with tourism and tourist offer, but if we look wider, if we look at their consumers, their cooperatives will come to their participation in a tourist offer. So I repeat, we don't need to look at it so closely. This is still part of a broader whole that touches all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25474	Thank you, too. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25475	Like you said, we can agree in one part of the other we can't agree on. I agree with you what you said last. However, these parafiscal impediments to you in the economy are actually causing a lot of confusion. So here's the thing, let's say we're not talking about this parafiscal intrusion right now, but in general parafiscal intrusion. So, the state imposes it on you first, and then it cuts it down a little bit, and it says that I'm good at this to you, and now I'm reducing it to 5, 10, or 15%, and before that, it gives him something that he's absolutely no use for, and he doesn't need it, that's what it's about.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25476	And finally, Mr. Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25477	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So I have to get right, here's the debate I had, I mentioned TZ Drenje, I meant TZ Draž, so here's just that correction. But that's not why I picked up the line. My friend, you were talking about the relationship between those who pay membership, it's not just about whether they're happy with it. Of course no one's happy if they have to pay for something and they don't feel the benefits. The point is that those who do not feel that they are often obstructed or difficult to make decisions that are important to tourism or the tourist community because they are members of the congregation. Therefore, it should be considered that mandatory membership should only be for the first group, while the second, third, fourth and fifth groups of debtors would be voluntary. Of course not overnight, and not now all of a sudden cut it off, but see which model would be adapting to it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25478	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25479	Yeah, I've already said that I've agreed with you and your debate and I think that's okay. I think members of the assembly should be exclusively business entities or entities from branches that have a direct connection to tourism and then make easier decisions. Now here's what we heard, some who don't see the benefits of it, some who don't see themselves in it all together, are actually trying to obstruct the work of these tourist communities, or are making it impossible for these communities to work.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25480	Thank you very much. You have no more replicas. Thank you. Now it's Mr. Davor's turn to find. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25481	Thank you. Honorable Vice President, esteemed fellow MPs. Here this week for the third time I feel like I'm starting in the same way, which is that once again we can say that we have one small positive step forward, but significantly too modest. So it's good to reduce the burden of the economy, but a 12% reduction in the situation where we have one historic recession and the tourism sector is primarily in the biggest problems where we have, some economic operators have a fall in income and by 70-80%, 12% reduction is not exactly something we should declare revolutionary. So when I compare it to one comparison that I used before, which is like putting out a bottle of water, we could say that when we talked about saving for local self-government that the bottle was spilled over the road, and now there's no such savings, there was a small bottle of water in the Forest Act, now we have another one, and the fire is actually getting bigger from day to day. So this is essentially nothing, nothing important is going to change. What I'm also interested in, there's been a lot of talk here about the tourist communities themselves. So, when it comes to destination or destination management, even if we look at today's conditions of global tourism that are suffering this year, but in time it will certainly recover, there is a real question of the purpose of some tourist communities in, in smaller cities, for example, where there may be a Chinese coming across half of Europe certainly won't be attracted because of their campaigns. The question is also what do we measure the contribution of these tourist communities? In other words, of all the nights that are being realized, of the tourism revenues that are being made, how do we measure how much is the contribution of the tourist communities, how much is the contribution of the private sectors, or how much is the contribution of the National Tourist Board, how much local and similar? So these are all some, some information that we would need for, to make these decisions and assess the state and purpose of the tourist communities that I have to say in many cases I am very pessimistic. The question is also asked, through membership fees, whether these funds can be used more efficiently? So, the opportunity cost is what we should always keep in mind when it comes to public money and think about whether that money can be used more efficiently in a different way, whether these companies themselves may, especially those acting in tourism, be more effective at attracting visitors than the tourist communities themselves. Finally, I would say that in the Republic of Croatia one significant amount of residence tax is charged and I believe that a much more rational system of tourist communities could be financed that there is really no problem for such a depreciated system and that tourist membership fees should actually be completely abolished. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25482	Thank you, too. Mr. Zeljko Lenart, first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25483	Thank you. Here's a fellow find you've noticed well that 12% is not a revolutionary reduction. However, here, during several days of debate, it is seen that it is the government's policy of how voters like it, and then, in non-essential positions in some ministries, we reduce by little, so we provide crumbs to the economy and we try to promote it as a big help to the economy. Clearly, that's not the case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25484	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25485	Well, fellow MP, I agree with you. What I think is extremely bad is that all these impositions are accounted for as a percentage of income. In fact, we all know that income isn't really what an entrepreneur ultimately stays. And for example, in the case of travel agencies, we know that an extremely large part of these revenues are actually just passing items where they lease on behalf of tourists and accommodations and transportation and so on, so they ask the question really how much, how fair is it? So in that part, I agree with you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25486	Thank you. You can leave this microphone on, don't mind your microphone to others. Mr. Yankee.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25487	Dear fellow MP, here you have mentioned the purpose of spending funds in tourist communities. Just to let you know if you didn't know, then it's the parliamentarians of the tourist communities who pay the most in that tourist community. They bring both ultimately and verify the plan and the programme and they are behind that plan and the programme, so they also verify the purpose, as you said, of spending these funds. So I think you made a little bit of a mistake in your statement.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25488	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25489	Well, I don't agree with you kindly. So, if someone were to make me pay for something, so it's mandatory for me, then I'd probably be able to have an opportunity to influence something, what it's spent on, use that opportunity. But that doesn't mean you wouldn't think that I could personally make something better and more efficient with that money. So I don't think that claim of yours stands.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25490	Thank you very much. You don't have any more replicas. Thank you. Now it's Mr. Sinisha Yankee's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25491	Honorable Vice-President, respected secretary of state, colleagues and colleagues, MPs and MPs. Here is today the new Law on Tourist Communities, normally it is here for the reasons of the government's action plan on reducing non-taxable and parafiscal givings. But when we talk about tourist communities it's one, one broad topic and definitely here I'm going to use the same short time to talk a few sentences about it. However, I support this reduction of parafiscal burdens and certainly as mentioned here, yesterday we had the Forests Act, where we also reduced a certain rate of OCFŠ intrusion and as we can see, says the old proverb "the stone to the palace, the dinar to the dinar or kuna to the thousand" so here is a slight reduction in all possible charges will certainly leave a certain amount of money to our entrepreneurs. But what I would say, in any case, since I come from northern Croatia, is that, and also colleagues have spoken, there is a certain difference between tourism in the Adriatic and tourism, continental tourism, so to speak, means from the north, central Croatia, Slavonia and there is a completely different difference. What my colleague said from the SDP, that the formal founders of tourist communities were parliamentarians, but as far as I know, and I haven't heard yet that somewhere other than local self-government would organize a tourist community and then gather around them, so that definitely without local self-government, this tourist community, especially on the continent, could not function at all. Without most funding from local self-government, many tourist communities could not function, and here I am, although some may feel that it is not good for me to think that connecting tourist communities, especially where there are fewer in some counties, is good for them to connect to a tourist, a roof tourist community and to be branches in some way, and county tourist communities. Here we mention the Varazdin County I come from there we have about 5 or 6 tourist communities if I'm not mistaken, and we have 28 JLS. However, here I am pleased that the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Tourism recognize it and that they will support it and here I can say that we will be in Novi Marof where we have a tourist community, that we will join together and that in some way we will join the assembly of the county tourist community. Here you would only mention one good example, and the differences between funding means the membership of tourist communities in the north and the continent are small, the tourist tax is small and so, I think, in the south, means at sea practically the revenues of tourist communities will not fall because they have large residence fees. With us in the north, on the continent and tourist tax normally because we have much fewer tourists, but I think through such a rounding that it will in some way increase even though, if I am not mistaken, we must be aware that where there were no tourist communities, and now in that rounding, those entrepreneurs who have not yet paid the fees to the tourist community because they did not have local tourist communities, by entering the county tourist community will now get the obligation to pay the tourist membership fee. But on the other hand, if we look at those who have tourist communities and our entrepreneurs who have paid that membership fee while on the other hand, there is a county tourist community that has invested in those areas that did not have tourist communities, so money has been invested, and there is nothing that has been set aside for these events, etc. Finally, I would like to praise one direction which, here I commend the County Tourist Community of the Varazdin County, regardless of how it is in some way another political option, but one good direction is the houses with a story that we have supported at local level and which some others can paint, definitely in Novi Marof it has brought us a thousand percent increase in tourist capacities, and then also a tourist tax, and that is one good way to develop continental tourism.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25492	Thank you. We have multiple replicas, the first respected representative of Ante Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25493	Thank you, dear Vice President. Comrade Yankee, I must agree with you. In the opening part of the exhibition you mentioned exactly what the constant opposition puts on the agenda, and that is the narrow view. We have to look wider, this is part of one mosaic, when we sum up everything in a short time and prepare the budget and the rebalancing itself when we see all the measures of discharging this will come up to about 560 million kunas for our entrepreneurs, not to mention 10 billion kuna support for the preservation of jobs. And this law is a good opportunity to look at the new tourism fund of the Ministry of Tourism itself because in the second part you mentioned continental tourism and the association of tourist communities for which only to support the preparation of a new season for such associated tourist communities goes 8 million kuna. So I think we should look definitely wider, this is part of one package, all for preparation to get out of this and get ready for a new season. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25494	Honorable representative of the Yankees.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25495	Here, I agree normally with you, you've reached out to my debate. Definitely, as I said, every ministry in its segment can release one piece, in the end it's one big cake, tax discharges, taxes on profits that we've cut, income tax that has fallen, so all of these are in some way discharging and increasing or leaving income to our entrepreneurs, and the salaries of our citizens are also increasing, so they're definitely great measures. And here I again commend this measure of the Ministry where here is where I must say that if and, and I understand and debate the opposition and they agree that somewhere where it is possible to round up and that, in that way, the purpose of promotion of tourist communities itself is being expressed.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25496	The next replica is the respected representative Zeljko Pavić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25497	Dear colleague, here I am pleased that you agree with some of the principles and principles that we have set out, especially for this upper continental part of Croatia. Let me just give you a few examples. You were at our place in Krapina when there was a week of caucasian culture. You know who's in charge of these jobs? One association. When we have the most tourists in Krapina, we have a race organised by an athletic club. A second example is equally sporting. We have the most tourists to look for, when looking for a bed more and when playing the table tennis tournament that is being poked for, at the level of the Croatian Tavern Federation. So there are no tourist communities anywhere and there are problems. That's what I'm saying, we need to see the benefits of that community, that's all it is, nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25498	Honorable representative of the Yankees.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25499	Well, I can't say specifically in your case right now, although I'm sure your tourist community in Krapina is funding and supporting these activities carried out by certain associations. I can speak from my own experience, from the region from which I come that in every event that takes place in the area is here in my city, and then wider in the entire county, finance, co-financed then and the tourist community, so I believe that this is also the case with you although it is not directly the bearer of these activities. I think that, and I can say from some experience, tourist communities often gather our different associations, connect them with each other, finance their actions, especially where these associations attract themselves means their activities attract a large number of people, especially people who come from other parts. So here I am, I'm sure that's how it is. And in Krapina. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25500	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ljubica Maksimchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25501	Thank you very much. Dear counterpart Jenkac, the pandemic has hit tourism the most, but tourism will also be the fastest growing activity since the crisis. Tourism is an activity that corresponds with social and economic activities, with private and public sectors, as well as with civil society associations. All the funds that are the only original income of tourist communities are spent on purpose, will return multiple, and then there are positive effects for which we are all ultimately proud.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25502	Honorable representative of the Yankees.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25503	Well, the connection between the economy and, and the tourist communities and tourism is, there's no need to talk about it at all, and normally, at these difficult times, to relieve the economy, but we all believe together that after these difficult moments, there will come a better time when this economy will breathe better and bring better effects and results and normal that then tourism is also the branch of the economy that, which definitely contributes to the development of our entire landscapes. Here I have to point out again that and hopefully the ministry will have a special, let's say, special niche for continental tourism, I think they have a lot of room for development. He's still, let's say, undeveloped and normal where there's something undeveloped there we have the largest space and I believe that and then there will be effects on the economy very large.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25504	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25505	Thank you very much, Vice President. You spoke differently in the revenues of tourist communities on the coast, in the coast, in the islands and in continental Croatia. Namely, the tourist tax is an extremely significant income in the coast, unlike in continental Croatia in these tourist communities, we almost have no tourist tax and basically basic income are tourist membership fees. However, trends change, tourist trends and, especially now, in this pandemic, we see that the guest is happy to choose and to choose new destinations, and if there is no income there will be no promotion of exactly such locations and that the guest will know what we have to offer if the tourist communities are not the bearer of such promotion.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25506	Honorable representative of the Yankees.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25507	That's right, you're absolutely right, respected fellow MPs, it's a finger and a nail. So we can't stop something and then expect flowers to appear on the other side if you don't water those flowers, if you don't fertilize it. So definitely the reduction that, but not an absolute reduction, especially as, you well detected the residence tax on the continent is far less because far fewer tourists and the financing of tourist communities through membership is significant, but also important precisely because of the promotion of these destinations and because of the co-financing of various projects, the OPGs, small entrepreneurs who started with their rental houses and I think, as I said, we have quite a significant space for development. And here's a new opportunity for our tourists. to choose Croatia on both the Adriatic and the continent [[Intruder: Thank you]] [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25508	The Republic has a respected representative, Ban Vlahek.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25509	A fellow Jenkac praised the tourist community in Varazdin County despite political belongings, as far as I understood it or not, it's not the same, so...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25510	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25511	...not belonging, it doesn't matter, but you took a very good look at that sentence "on the day that politics comes out of the tourist community system, the tourist community will breathe in full terms of those words". It's one of the major problems in the tourism community system, so I think you've taken a good look at yourself, you've said it well.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25512	Honorable representative of the Yankees.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25513	Well, here's the law, chief, mayor or mayor is in office as president of the tourist community, and that's, that's the law unless he's delegating someone to, to that place, which most often isn't and so. Although, as you said in your presentation, in the replica of your colleague, the tourist community makes up the assembly of the tourist community, the assembly is made up of the biggest financiers of the tourist community, and I think that this assembly and the board of directors make decisions that are most important for the functioning of tourist communities and that I can hardly say that some of them, would not now like to say that ugly word because I did not love it because I was criticising the sheriffs the other day, but that there are just the mayors and mayors who can absolutely rule the tourist community, but that very much influence have those who finance it, especially in the south where they are and, both big firms and large hotels that give significant the means, and they will decide about them. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25514	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be respected representatives of Dalia Oreshkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25515	Honored chairman, fellow MPs and MPs. I asked myself if there was a need to come up with a discussion since not much had changed since the first reading, and at that time we said more or less everything. But it is not even to expect that something significant will change from the first reading to the second reading when nothing significant changes in Croatia in the full 30 years. However, there is another reason why we still need to say something because this is a good example to point to one theater of absurdity. So we are a state that is unable to define the constitutional relationship between individual branches of state government. We now have a situation to be represented at the European summit by Janez Janša, although the constitution states that we are represented by the Council and the European Council in accordance with their constitutional powers of government and president of the state.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25516	Dear MPs, we are about, we are now discussing tourist communities, surely neither the president of the state nor the prime minister have anything to do with it. Please stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25517	So, I'm sticking to the subject, thank you for interrupting me and interrupting me, you're doing it all the time. And that's another topic, so we're HS who can't bring in too many Rules of Procedure. Yesterday, Mr. Gordan Jandrokovic also noticed that we often use the Institute of Infringement of the Rules of Procedure when there is no other tool for overstatement in the debate when it corresponds to the specific situation and the subject and what someone else said, and it needs to be replicated. We are a state that is unable to create excessive institutions, give them good powers, strengthen them so that they can exercise independent, impartial control of certain branches of state government, and we would prescribe membership fees. We deal with membership fees, we are unable to bring the state into order, but we prescribe membership fees and we ask that they are mandatory in certain professional organisations, and even for those economic branches that are specifically such a community as the tourist community do not need at all, and we impose mandatory parafiscal fees on them. We know that, for example, membership is paid to tourist communities by those who, for example, are paid to tourists. They deal with forestry. I appeal, and it is very much the subject of this debate, stop doing more membership fees, start dealing with the system. Not only should this parafiscal impose be abolished completely, tourist communities should be abolished and we should stop frustrating our economies by reducing 10% by some kind of reform because this reform is not. And your stories and explanations are in vain so that without tourist communities there would be no marketing, there would be no success in tourism. So we have over 300 of these body structures that come up with some kind of micro-level strategy or national level, so with such a thin tank in tourism, we'd have the most developed tourism in the world, and we don't have it. In fact, our tourism is quite underdeveloped, but as everything else has failed tourism is the only thing that's more or less left. And all that we consider to be the powers and obligations, which is well-implemented by the tourist community at local level, organizes "Days of Bread", wine, cheese, prosciutto, here are beans, lamps on the Advents, so it is all something that can be organised in a different way. There is no reason why such events should not be organised within the local self-government, within an office, here is the office for tourism in the City of Zagreb. But why do we have tourist communities? Well, because the financial reports of the City of Zagreb for such events would be as much as read, checked and watched. But he doesn't check them at the level of TZ of the City of Zagreb. Let me also mention that we called Milan Bandic last year "Acca Adventa" and that we have the most corrupt Advent in Europe and in, here in the assembly there are people who can say something more or less about it, they were asked to submit financial reports, and they never submitted. And why is that? Well, because most in the congregation voted against it. It is not known how the financial resources of TZ of the City of Zagreb are spent, nor who submits the property cards, nor is anything controlled. And we know that, for example, the cottages were assigned, and that's 50 for a total of 10,000 kunas to a man who had founded his simple, limited-responsibility society a few days before, and before that, he was the mayor himself. So, what are the tourist communities? The money of institutions. The parallel institutions that serve as flow boilers to finance someone's private interests with corrupt methods. No one's controlling it. And here we are with Milan Bandic, then I'll say that yesterday he opened a monument worth 35 million kuna. Dad's watching his, like, country, country's watching his dad. Now there's something else we're missing. We're missing a dad watching...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25518	Thank you very much. We have several replicas on your exhibit, the first replica of the esteemed representative, Željko Lenart, please. Here you go, buddy. I'm giving you a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25519	...their monuments and fountains as a symbol of the state, a symbol of a country in which the standard of living of the citizens falls systematically due to parafiscal duties that do not serve them.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25520	Dear MPs, I'm giving you a heads-up. Please stay here, you have several replicas. You don't listen to anything anyone else is saying, but let's listen to the replica of the esteemed representative, Zeljko Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25521	Wait a minute, if you hadn't interrupted me so much during the speech, I'd be able to say absolutely everything I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25522	If you hadn't talked about other topics, I could have given you a warning right away, but I didn't, I gave you later because you were way out of time.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25523	Do you know how many MPs there are in HS that absolutely don't stick to the subject, you never told them anything about it. When you apply the same standards to everyone, you can do the same to me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25524	Based on an article. In 240, I give you a reminder by taking away your word.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25525	Dear colleagues...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25526	Unfortunately, this representative cannot answer you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25527	But I can replicate to her, so that you took away her word, that's what you're breaking the procedure now. Why, since the replicas are here, why did you take her word? For what?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25528	Look, look at the Rules of Procedure, and you'll understand. I know, but you, you consciously violate that Rules of Procedure often.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25529	That's right.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25530	And it's not in this congregation, it's in the past, what we've been to, what we've been to a lot of times...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25531	My friend Lenart, don't take me for granted. I'm giving you a warning. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25533	This is the Rules of Procedure that I was talking about to edit it and it needs to be arranged because it is the purpose of the Rules of Procedure to regulate the rules of conduct of HS, not to make it impossible for MPs to speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25534	Based on an article. In 240th century, I give you a reminder by taking away the word until the end of the debate on this topic, the respected representatives of Oreshković.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25535	Fortunately, the debate on this subject is over anyway.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25536	Dear colleagues Oreshkovic, no matter what you do not have the right words, but you can listen. I agree with you on the Rules of Procedure. Today's Rules of Procedure, which has been voted against by the HSS, significantly reduces the possibility of discussion and the quality of discussion of MPs in HS, so that the opposition is not heard enough, but well, we are discussing what we have. Secondly, I do not agree with you that it is necessary to abolish the tourist communities because the tourist communities perform their functions as I have discussed and said, a large number of enthusiasts work in tourist communities, do their jobs, and I think that tourism in Croatia would look much worse, especially continental that the tourist communities do not have. As for corruption in the Advent, it is not that we have the most corrupt Advent, we have the most corrupt country in the EU, and that is our problem, not only that unfortunate Bandic's Advent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25537	The next replica of the esteemed representative of Kleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25538	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. It's a little unusual for, for this one to ask questions or I would only find that definitely here in this exhibition we had a sense of one such bager approach to destroying all the institutions that are following the tourism industry and I would say a fundamental ignorance of how branding and selling a tourist product on the world market works at all. One who, who deals with tourism, knows that this kind of discussion has in some way offended all those tourist workers who are worth fighting in every market, especially on our imitation markets through the Croatian Tourist Board system and through their regional and tourist communities' systems to bring guests to be an absolute driver of the Croatian economy, and as such, gave us some perspective that the better we operate in the country This is what we heard. [[Intruder: Thank you]] is definitely beneath every criticism. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25539	Find the next replica of the esteemed representative of Davor.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25540	Thank you, Vice President. I would say that first of all I agree with Representative Oreskovic, and given that she is not down there, I will use this replica to actually respond to Mr. counterpart Kleman who, who would say that he is actually the one who insults all those employees of the private part of the tourist sector who are actually asking these days if they will have money for their family for Christmas while all those in tourist communities are safe and their incomes are secured and their money is still coming, the salaries are there. So perhaps a little of the thesis has been set up wrong, and in this case, colleague Oreshkovic has been attacked completely needlessly. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25541	The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Mira Bulja If you're Miro Bulj then it's you, yes. [[Blower from the bench: He's gone]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25542	Thank you very much. Tourism in Croatia should be of extra value to what we have. Unfortunately, since everything is diluted, devastated, 2/3 of Croatia, Mr. Kleman, has been devastated, exclusively because of parafiscal taxes, only because of what the people did not get that alternative, and it is amazing that we have so many potentials in the Republic of Croatia, not only when we talk about tourism, about historical tourism, but about gastro-tourism, sports opportunities. I can only list certain things, a colleague is from Đakova, she has the "Jakovki bonds", colleagues in Istria have their brands and they work there, mainly in the background. You're a colleague of Kleman's, too, from that area. However, the fact is that the mayors and mayors of the tourist community use only themselves for piar and that the people and the workers on this lease are exclusively piar agencies to the mayors and mayors and they are in the shackles of the employees, depending on the tourist, the assembly and the council, on the people inside. And who's in charge of that? The mayor and the mayor. When we talk about tourism, then I have to say that I'm amazing, you know where I play, here I don't know, where I play first football? Who knows here, first? At Gardun in the Cetin region, the monument is located in Sinj, Gaj Laberija, the 2nd century, the first football was played in Sinj in the Cetin region. Imagine what a brand that is. Who knows? Here are the parliamentary representatives who knew that the first football in the beginning of the 2nd century was played in Sinj during the Roman Empire? And we have a monument in Sinj, Guy Laberies with a ball, proven, we only have one Dalmati association that deals with it, but there is no promotion. Imagine that, it's in our head that he was the first to play English. Imagine that someone else, you have an article about it countless published, imagine what it means to be, the first football to play, the most important side thing in the world, that it was played in Croatia, let alone in my area. Nobody knows, nobody cares, and they could build a huge brand on it. In my neighborhood we have Sinjska Alka, we have the Wonder Lady Sinjska, religious tourism, historical, traditional, religious, alka, chivalry, humanity, we have everything. We have a battle of history, we have the coronation of the Wonder Lady of Sin. Just a few days, a few days when the alka is then we have tourists, and we have so much potential from national parks, rivers, springs, springs, the only thing we do at the source of Cetina, a wonderful source of what we gave to Americans in concessions while the water is on the stock market, drinking water and what SDSS and HDZ in the Municipality of Civljana crashes the flat bridge of the 14th century away from the fortunes of the old Croatians that were made, collapses to make them new than it is from the 14th century, together your coalition partner Pupovac and HDZ. That's what you're doing. And the parafiscal inducement and this fog that you play is so stupid that the tourist community is stripped of the shackled, shackled and acting on the market as it should, and not parafiscal intrusions, then we would have results. They wouldn't be our results if we never had fewer residents in areas where they're beautiful. In my cetin area you can have, our athletes go to Austria at 900 meters, 1000 meters go to this altitude preparation, so the very village, the Island of the West, the Korita, a number of other mysto Dinara, Podinari, Cetina's gastro-prosciutto, ham, you all tried it when you came to the alka and came to Sinjska alka and it's not just coming to an alka pose and drink, it's not just that, but it's good, I'm inviting you, but it should take all year as an offer. Horse sport, airport, the oldest airport in the Split swimming pool area is in Sinj, older than Kaštelanski and these are facts and the tourist community is in chains, in chains of mayors and mayors and this parafiscal imposition would not be necessary for tourist communities to be released, they would earn their own salary.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25543	We have two replicas, one respected representative of Begonja.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25544	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Bulj, it's a good thing that the son's country has an alka, it's a good thing it has the sanctuary of the Great Lady, and then maybe tens of thousands are gathered, maybe I don't even know it in those days, you know it better than I do. But in small tourist areas, the tourist community is a tool that opens doors to the tourist world, and it promotes not only the natural beauty of the region, not only the gastronomy of the region, but also cultural goods, all the tourist infrastructure and facilities in the area. I agree with you that they don't do everything equally, part of the problem is on the frames. And that's why I'm asking you one more time if you consider the existence of a tourist community in undeveloped tourist areas that no one would know as a rule that there is no tourist community? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25545	Dear Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25546	You have in Drniš Mestrovic, he's... In the Drnica region, you have beautiful people who deal with winemaking, beautiful wine, you have a beautiful part of the NP Krk in Drnis, as well as in Knin. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] We have many meanings what we can show, we have people who want to invest and invest, invest in objects that are for tourist purposes. They're beautiful. I invite them to come to the Drinjsko end, the cetin end, the Zagora, the vrgorje end which is now flooded unfortunately and the tribal would be taken when we propose amendments to some of the things about irrigation and draining unfortunately it does not take place, we have beautiful domestic, indigenous products, but at the same time you now want to tear down i.e. ban the production of indigenous seeds, market sales, just so you know. We have a lot to show, and the tourist communities on the market would be better shown than if they were in chains with the mayor and the mayor.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25547	The next replica of the respected representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25548	Thank you very much. Comrade Bulj, you've witnessed football. Back in Roman times, I don't know if it can be called football, but here I can give a similar example where we can talk about football, which you certainly haven't heard of. So, the first football in Croatia didn't come to Dalmatia, didn't come to Split, didn't come to Hajduk, came to Slavonia, came to County in 1880. when Slavonia was famous enough and rich enough to attract... Even from England, who brought the football, who played football and who even balled in the absence of enough players. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's only 15 years old. Later or we can only say 15. The first public football game in Zagreb was held later than 14. But this is the same brand that we can and should be working on, which certainly neither of you, and I believe a lot of colleagues and colleagues have ever heard of.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25549	Dear Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25550	Dear Slavons I welcome them from here, a large part is from my neighborhood, I have relatives and a large part of the Hajduk fans, which is very important to mention, there is Dinamo, and they are all Croatian clubs, but one big part of the Hajduk fans. The first football where you have to check it out, it's written and the FIFA has confirmed it and the first ball is in the 2nd century, so FIFA's confessed, you'll see it, check it, FIFA's admitted that the first football was played at the Gardun. You can see that monument in Sinj when you come to see it in Sinj, there is a monument in Vrlika Street that is held by the Gaj Laberies, a leather ball, so it's proven, historically proven, we have an association, but we don't promote it. You're talking about football in the last century than if the first football was played, a football with a leg and it's now even FIFA confessed and read well, so you'll see the UEFA, you'll see that detail that the first football was played in Sinj In the beginning of the 2nd century. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25551	Now finally, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, a respected representative, Anton Kliman, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25552	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. I would like to point out once again that definitely with this law shows the commitment of the government, the tourism ministry to reduce parafiscal burdens and definitely the government is going in the right direction when it does what it does, among other things, with this bill. We've heard a lot of conflicting estimates of needing tourist communities, so we don't need them, so we should put them on the market, we shouldn't put them on the market. Tourist communities have their own framework of legislation which I think is a good, one, a good long-term perspective if, if they deal with what they need to deal with, and that is destination management. We have excellent examples in developed tourism, therefore regions and are not accidentally developed tourist regions by themselves, but because it is a set of all entities that care about the tourist product, it is, and it is definitely the product of these efforts. We must also say that we are not only through tourist communities but also through all tourist entities today that have worked on the market, and especially in this past time when the pandemic has hit us extremely and very hard, and these are our valuable tourist workers, catering workers, all those who, who are providing services and who are working on branding the Republic and their micro destinations that have done a huge, huge job. But we must also point out that a huge job was done by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which at the right moment intervened and gave assistance to all those who needed it, and we know that most of all, it was necessary for the tourism sector. Well, I also have to point out, from yesterday, that we no longer have an obstacle to, about our destiny, that our fate is in our hands, given that the European Commission has approved EUR 24.2 billion of funds for our recovery and for ours, for our future, so we can say that we have received two vaccines. So, the vaccine first that started to be implemented in the UK and that will soon begin to be implemented with us, which will certainly calm this pandemic and open us a new perspective in the first order of economic but also tourist perspective, ahead of us is expected one, one tourist season. But we also got another vaccine, and that vaccine is the 24.2 billion kuna that we will be able to use in our, in our recovery, in our perspective until 2027. and all together make one improvement for, for our country. In this sense, I would like to thank the Government of the Republic of Croatia and our President, who is extremely, very much the Prime Minister who has done this and where we have received a lot of funds more than originally expected from all negotiations. 10 billion kuna, EUR 10 billion is therefore foreseen for the resilience and recovery of our economy, including the tourism sector. So these are the funds that we will certainly be able to use in the short term best to stabilise our companies, to give them a new perspective in, in this, in the market and in the internal market, and especially in the external market where we will be able to use them, to position them that their influence in the economy is much better than it has been so far and so, we have one new perspective that is solely up to us, the funds are approved, no more justifications for not doing anything, so the state has to create a infrastructure that will enable us all to have one better perspective over ourselves in the future and I think that definitely what I said and before we get through the first vaccine, so for the pandemic, we have also got another vaccine for the recovery of our economy, and I want everyone to catch that job and to create a perspective and a better future for our citizens in this future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25553	Finally, he will speak also on behalf of the club MOST independent lists, respected representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25554	Thank you very much. About the tourist community and the values we have, I would only repeat once more that FIFA was 1969. confirmed that the first football was played in Sinj where the boy Guy Laberija with the monument, FIFA confirmed, UEFA, Croatian Football Federation and the tourist community did not take advantage of it. It's very easy to check that FIFA admitted it, and we don't know, even a colleague who's from my constituency that's funny, to her it's funny, but it's not funny. The first football that was played and that it was recognized by the FIFA, the Croatian Football Federation not to use it, in the 2nd century, and that we have a monument and proof of the boy holding the ball, here's the monument, you can find it. So, it's funny how much the tourist community doesn't have a purpose when we who deal with politics, who follow history, who love sports, who love football, Hajduka, Dinam, our second-in-command, the tourist community doesn't do its job well, is it exclusively in the bonds of mayors, mayors, prime ministers, in chains. She must be a pirate, is when the dredical prosciutto of course that the mayor must be prominent there, he's the one, of course, who's in power or the party that's in power, I know the days of prosciutto, I know that when he's an alka, I know that when he's an alka. Yeah, for example. If I were an HDZ parliamentary representative, I would certainly welcome this as a host, because until now, it's all parliamentary, and I don't suffer from it no matter what I was. However, when you're the other one, it's too expensive for all of it to be politicized, I think the triba let the market go, and those most capable people will certainly do best in the market through these tourist communities than to throw these parafiscal burdens on the economy so that those people who are, and they're, they're, they're probably in the tourist community, but there's also those who are purely political, and they're in the highest number. So parafiscal impositions do nothing good to promote tourism to the tourist community but they are addicts and it's a great shame to our tenants, our caterers that you've trampled into the crisis now and in the covid crisis you've trampled on them. Because in the big chain of commerce, the centers, as they're all called, are open, full, covered, go and you'll see, while the catering facilities that adhered to these measures didn't get this one, they shut down. Even if it were courage to provide them with a moratorium on interest and loans, interest and loans to those people for a year, the banks would not lose anything, they are solvent, that the prime minister has the courage of Slovenia. The prime minister has the courage to come here to the parliament to take advantage of the business opportunities and talk about the 100th subject than the MP asks. There is no courage to tell the banks moratorium on loans, you have a great profit and interest, you have a huge profit, you have a huge profit of Croatian people, 4 billion kunas per year on fees and interest. So you haven't even protected tourist workers and tourism-related activities, and here you come with some minor reduction. The parafiscal force is unnecessary. We have people who can be able to market and profile themselves, which can be helped, but with their abilities it will be much better to brand all the features of Croatia, including my cetin end, the drenical end, everything we have. So it's amazing to me that we don't know here about the Croatian Football Federation, the tourist community doesn't use that much anymore that it's not just Sinj Alka and only religious tourism, it's the most significant. And we have this part, we have that first football, the FIFA has confessed, played in Sinj. We have a monument on Vrličko Street, when you go, you will see, look, you can take pictures, so spread that little news, and you can sea and Google very easily you will get this information. We have an association that deals with "Dalmati", so that's where the Romans and the Dalmatians play, they do, they like to come to Sinj when those days are to see and how people organize and the tribune helps them, even the Ministry of Culture admits it, but nobody knows, we don't know, nobody knows about that information, very little. Once again, all the potentials we have, mainly the back, the land part, I'm talking now about Sinj and the Dalmatian Zagora, the cetin end, the drno end, we have so much potential for the production of agricultural food products, but the new law that was in the public debate yesterday, you want to limit them to indigenous domestic seeds than has to be unified, controlled, so we won't feel more the smell of apples than we're going to smell plastics, tires, GMOs and everything we have on the market and what we're importing. Tourism should be just a potential for this, everything we have here, but unfortunately it's the other way around. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25555	Now, on behalf of the promoter, the respected State Secretary at the Ministry of Tourism and Sports, Sandra Herman, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25556	Dear President HS, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, I will be very brief in the end. There was another debate about the Final Proposal for a draft amendment and addition of the Law on Tourist Memberships. I have to say the same as last time that I'm very sorry to hear people in the system of tourist communities call themselves love. You yourself have also found that almost all speakers behind this speaker that tourism is very important and that it contributes largely to the total share of the GDP of the Republic of Croatia and that it is one of the most important branches of the economy and I must say that people working in the tourism community system have contributed greatly to that. They're not arrests, they're not politically appointed. I repeat again, they are not even officials, they are people who are employed through public competitions, they must therefore have conditions for their jobs. Mrs. Devereaux. Oreshkovic also last time, and now she mentioned that she had found no property card anywhere that we were bringing out false things here. He cannot find the property cards of the directors of tourist communities because they are not officials, and all of their salaries, all of which were asked are publicly available and as has been said many times today, so the founders of the tourist communities are the ones we are discussing today, and these are entrepreneurs, they are the ones who pay the membership fee. As I said in the opening part, so these amendments and additions of the laws go in the direction of dissolving entrepreneurs, it is 12%, some will say little, but in the total amount from 2016 to 2016 it is 32% and as we have mentioned several times it is going to be that membership fees are not mandatory, so it is going towards the abolition of membership fees, but at this point, we know that they mean a lot to the continent in particular, for tourist communities on the continent. Tourist communities are not on the market, they are non-profits and their tasks are not sales, their task is to create and promote a tourist product and that they do not do a good job would not be such a result now and I think tourism is one economic branch that is connected to all other activities and that we should not talk about tourist communities as those we do not need. We need them. Whether there are too many or not. The new Law on a system of tourist communities and the promotion of Croatian tourism also made it possible, hence formal unification of tourist communities, association of tourist communities with that projected to reduce giving for some administrative costs and improve their activities and improve their impact. We discussed all of this today, and I think the point of this story is to support the reduction as a parafiscal imposition in terms of these memberships, but we are also going towards their, its abolition, but we are doing parallel processes and we are finding ways to maintain, how to help tourist communities and how to put them on that right function, those less helpful, to unite them because each of them has a purpose. Those less as you said they will join together, they will unite around products, but it is not true that they are not needed and I think that the system of tourist communities works well and does its job. There.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25557	Thank you very much. There are several replicas to your presentation, the first respected representative of Bulja.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25558	Ma'am. Herman, you here, we didn't understand each other, we didn't understand each other. The tourist community to do a good job in the Republic of Croatia and to have people doing their job probably has, but this is a parafiscal charge that is mandatory, and the market is something else. And yes, you can't say it's not in the mayor and mayor's shackles when it's head of the assembly, a tourist assembly headed by the mayor and the mayor. And if the triba contest, you know how they... The number of beds, hair color, which is the number of shoes and hair color, that is, I can give you a few examples. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] And you have to be politically similar and you have to be the pear mayor of not that neighborhood, the mayor and that's the worst, so these people live in shackles. And here we have a parafiscal imposition binding, we have a market and the market let it show who can best and best. I didn't say there didn't have to be a tourist activity, of course. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25559	Dear Secretary of State Herman.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25560	Yes, mayors, mayors and mayors are only presidents, so it is only one vote in the council or assembly, and competitions for people working in the tourism community system are prescribed, so the presidents do not decide on them.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25561	My colleague Bulj has committed a violation of the Rules of Procedure, and what has he been injured in?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25562	I give up.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25563	What?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25564	I give up.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25565	You're giving up. Thank you. Honorable representative of Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25566	Thank you, Vice President. Your honor, Madam Secretary of State. Herman, you were talking about the importance of the business of the tourist communities. All those who criticise and want to abolish tourism membership today, all those who say that the tourist communities should be aware, and our public is good enough to know that these jobs should be done, what kind of criticism should be then for the government to end this and then leave it to whom, privates, such jobs and tasks.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25567	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25568	Yes, I agree with the lady. I think this system is well-compromised. And I repeat once again, the new Law on the System of Tourist Communities, which came into force in 1.1.2020, regulates everything we're talking about today.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25569	The last replica of the esteemed representative of Davor Nadj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25570	Thank you. Here, I have a question since you said that without tourist communities there wouldn't be such a good result in tourism. I believe that your ministry takes its business seriously and that there are some concrete figures on the basis of which you make such statements, so I would ask you if you could now share with us which would then be the result of tourism in Croatia that the tourist communities do not have? So how much smaller would you be, I don't know, the number of arrivals, how much less income from tourism and the like?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25571	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25572	Well, I have to say, we wouldn't be a tourist destination at all. You also saw at this time the crown of the crisis that we achieved, that in the Mediterranean we were the most competitive tourist destination, all of this had to be done. And I'm not just saying it from this perspective, I'm saying it from the perspective of the field because I've been a part of it since 2007.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25573	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate on this point, and we'll vote on it when we get the conditions. Thank you very much. We move to the following point, which is: - Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Citizens of the Member States of the European Economic Area and members of their families with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No.80. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia 172, 204 and 206. The Rules of Procedure of HS. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation The Rules of Procedure adopted on the occasion of the establishment of the agenda a proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal by an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings, and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with Article. 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Zarko Katic, State Secretary at the MUP, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25581	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor. MPs and gentlemen of the Parliament. As is known, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland has been known since 1 February 2020. In a regulated manner, EU members shall cease to be subject to the United Kingdom's withdrawal agreement from the EU and the European Atomic Energy Community. Sucession issues are often considered the most difficult issues, although this is not a literal succession, but there are certain elements and in such agreements it is always very important to regulate further relations between citizens, their residences, their rights to, to state and the like. The transitional period provided for by the agreement which continues to apply EU law to the United Kingdom until 31 December 2020. The possibility of extending the transitional period as we know it has not been used, it was possible until July 1st, but the Joint Committee has not decided on that, so it definitely ends on December 31st this year. One of the fundamental rights guaranteed by the agreement is the right of citizens to stay. These include, for example, entering the country, leaving the country, temporary stay, permanent stay and possible restrictions on the right to stay, as well as issuing new residence documents. This part of the Agreement shall enter into force on 1 January 2021. This guarantees the protection of persons who are still staying in the Republic of Croatia, so it is about citizens of the United Kingdom and members of their families who may or may not be members or citizens of the United Kingdom. According to the official records of the MUP in the Republic of Croatia, 1,133 citizens or citizens of the United Kingdom are present today, 773 of which have been reported temporary stay and 360 permanent stay. The instructive deadline set by the final draft of the law for them to regulate their new stay as third-country nationals, but with the rights they draw as current citizens of the EU Member State is 30.6.2021. The withdrawal agreement itself does not contain procedural rules, and in order to guarantee legal certainty for the citizens of the United Kingdom and to lay down appropriate procedures for the application of a temporary or permanent stay, and the issuing of a new residence card, the final proposal for a law prescribes a general provision laying down the provisions of the Law on Citizens of the Member States of the European Economic Area and members of their families in an appropriate manner and, if not contrary to the Agreement, apply to citizens of the United Kingdom and members of their families. The final proposal for a law shall refer citizens of the United Kingdom and members of their families to the appropriate procedures for the application of their stay, depending on whether or not they are on 31 December 2020. have made an application for a stay and shall, of course, set deadlines for those applications. The law further states that non-compliance with the deadlines for registration does not affect the rights laid down in the Agreement, nor does the termination of the status of users established by the Agreement affect. However, in the event of non-compliance with the deadlines for the application of a temporary or permanent stay, and in exchange for residence documents, a fine of 200 kuna is prescribed. This provision comes into force a little later, not on January 1st as a whole, but on July 1, 2021, so punishment will be possible for those who have not reported a replacement of residence documents. The law prescribes the issue of a residence document in the same format with the same protection elements, as will, as is the card for third-country nationals. It will only have the mark that it is for persons who are users of the agreement, so they have specific rights. The entry into force of the law is proposed on 1 January 2021. because that date is subject to the provisions of the agreement relating to the rights of citizens. The proposal also proposes the adoption of an emergency procedure so that citizens of the United Kingdom would not be left without the rights set out in the agreement or that it would not be moved. This is of course important for citizens of EU Member States living in the United Kingdom, especially for us on the rights and obligations of Croatian citizens living in the United Kingdom. So our citizens who live in the United Kingdom will also continue to be guaranteed the rights to, or to use all those rights that they have enjoyed so far. In particular, the agreement explicitly requires that the host State should not impose any restrictions or conditions on the acquisition, retention or loss of the right to stay. The terms and conditions of stay under the agreement must be applied by each party in good faith and without discrimination by nationality but only for the benefit of persons staying in parties to the Contracting Parties. He would place a few more notes concerning the stay of Croatian citizens in the United Kingdom who are users of the agreement. Namely, the United Kingdom has not established a classical system of registration and residence in its immigration system relating to freedom and movement of EU citizens, as most Member States have, so that this stay can be proven in different ways, so they do not have a special residence card but can be proved for example. certificates of employers or higher education if persons are students, driver's license issued in the United Kingdom, confirming that they have health insurance in another way. In order to maintain the right to stay European citizens, so that the Republic of Croatia that settled in the United Kingdom by 31 December of this year must be required by 30 June 2021 at the latest. to regulate their residence status through a special scheme of the British government called ‘EU Settlement’, so Croatian citizens can prove that they are legally staying in the United Kingdom for example for 5 and more years and can then obtain a certificate of permanent stay, and those citizens staying in the United Kingdom less than 5 years. they get a temporary stay that allows after 5 years of course, when they accumulate 5.g. stay to get a permanent stay. When applying to the above statuses, it is necessary to prove the identity and, of course, the former residence in the United Kingdom. According to statistics published by the "Home Office" in the United Kingdom, which is available on the line by 30.9.2020. A total of 8,170 requests from Croatian citizens to regulate their residence status under the agreement, out of which 8,030 status has been approved, of which 2,050 permanent stay, 5,980 temporary stay, 140 requests have been rejected, these are mainly cases where a person does not, is not subject to the law or is a threat to safety or public health. By contrast, according to the Croatian MUP records on 10.12., 7.587 Croatian citizens have registered residence or temporary departure to the United Kingdom, of which 4,701 Croatian citizens reported residence in the United Kingdom and 2,798 reported temporary departure to the United Kingdom. Of all 88 of them, they checked out their residence in the Republic of Croatia for moving to Great Britain, but we don't have any information that they've ever reported an address abroad. So, I repeat another comparison for the sake of our records 1.133 citizens of the United Kingdom have one of the intended types of residences. Otherwise, citizens of the United Kingdom were obliged to register their stay in the Republic of Croatia until now if they intended to live and work in the Republic of Croatia for more than 3 months. Registration of residence will therefore allow the competent authorities of the Republic of Croatia to verify that they meet the conditions laid down in the Agreement for stay in the Republic of Croatia. Finally, just a few words about future relations after the agreement enters into force 1.1.2021, means that those outside of the withdrawal agreement, the citizens of the United Kingdom will be subject to the national provisions of the Law on Foreigners, so our law on regulating the residence status of foreigners, as well as to all other countries, to third-country nationals. Regarding visa reciprocity, the EU has exempt citizens of the United Kingdom from the obligation to hold short-stay visas, which is up to 90 days in 180 days, while the United Kingdom allows EU citizens to stay for up to 6 months without a visa, it has been published on the United Kingdom Government's website. If the United Kingdom introduces a visa regime for any Member State, the EU will introduce a visa regime for EU citizens, for citizens of the United Kingdom. And here's the information that's outside the law itself, so as far as reciprocity is concerned, and in the end, we have two, two amendments that have been tabled by the Committee on Legislatives. 1st and to Article 1st. 3 and 8, the amendments are of a nomotechnical nature and the Proposer will accept them and put them in... Thank you very much. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25582	Thank you very much. We have one replica of the respected representative of Davor Eve Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25583	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. I just wanted to briefly refer to this question of reciprocity that you pointed out, especially in regulating the status of citizens of the United Kingdom and on the other hand of the EU. At the beginning of the negotiations, the question has been raised whether Croatian citizens will be treated equally as other European citizens? There were certain doubts at the beginning, but the pawning of the MUP, our diplomacy and government in general, it is uniform, therefore full reciprocity, which is agreed for British citizens in the EU and so on in Croatia, it will simply apply to European citizens, including Croatian citizens in the UK.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25584	Thank you very much. Is there a need for a comment or something?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25585	Certainly, that is absolutely correct, the Republic of Croatia has been a member of the EU since 1 July 2013. and actively participated in the preparation of the agreement and all rights apply to Croatian citizens, as well as to the other 26 Member States now.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25586	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I am opening the debate the first club of Croatian sovereigns on behalf of which the respected representative of Hrvoja Zekanovic will speak, is missing, losing his right to debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, Commissioner Marijana Balic will speak, please. Mariana?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25587	Thank you very much. Thank you, well-respected Vice President HS, dear secretary of state, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Here we are today, as we have heard from the very content introduction of the Secretary of State, the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Citizens of the Member States of the European Economic Area and members of their families with a final draft of the law, which is related to Brexit and the exit of the United Kingdom, Great Britain and Northern Ireland from the EU and the European Atomic Energy Community. In fact, the withdrawal agreement itself came into effect after the United Kingdom exited from the EU on 31 January this year, at midnight in Central European time and the agreement reached, among other things, legal certainty in important areas including citizens' rights. In addition, what is needed to point out is that by applying the United Kingdom agreement, it is no longer an EU Member State, it has become, it has ceased to be regulated, and is now considered a third country. The transitional period, which should last until 31 December of this year, also began on that day, during which EU legislation applies to citizens of the United Kingdom. The withdrawal agreement itself regulates different aspects. The aspect that is important to us today in the context of the proposed law today is the comprehensive protection of the rights of EU citizens living in the United Kingdom and the rights of citizens of the United Kingdom living in the EU. Furthermore, as stated in the section of the assessment of the situation, the agreement recognises the need for mutual protection of EU citizens and citizens of the United Kingdom and members of their family who, before 31 December 2020, have, before the end of the transitional period, exercised the right to freedom of movement and guarantees the enforceability of their rights, as well as their justification on the principle of non-discrimination. The same agreement allows Member States to choose between the two schemes to regulate the residence status of citizens of the United Kingdom and members of their families. So, between the constitutional system of residence and the declarative system of residence. We heard from the secretary of state updated data compared to those contained in the materials, according to which according to the records of the MUP in the Republic of Croatia 1,133 citizens of the United Kingdom who have registered residence status and 733 are on temporary stay and 360 who consume permanent stay. Therefore, for the purpose of further implementation of the Agreement, it is necessary to do the following and, as we have also heard from the opening presentation of the Secretary of State, to provide for appropriate procedures and conditions for the notification of a temporary or permanent stay, then to set deadlines for application, to lay down the conditions under which the borderary worker submits a request for the issue of a border pass, and to prescribe the application of the provisions of the Law on Citizens of the Member States of the European Economic Area and members of their families in an appropriate manner to the citizens of the United Kingdom and members of their families who are beneficiaries of those rights under the agreement itself. What is also more important in the end is that the adoption of the proposed law will provide legal certainty or very clear rules will be laid down to allow citizens of the United Kingdom and members of their families the timely application procedure for temporary or permanent stay, and the issuing of residence fees, documents, procedures relating to the right to stay, the right to entry and exit, the right to permanent stay, and the issuing of residence documents, as well as the rules on the restriction of the right to stay and the right to enter, and the issuing of a correction to a border worker. Following all of the above, the HDZ Representatives Club will support the law in question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25588	The next Club of Representatives is that of the Homeland Movement on behalf of which the respected representative Stephen Nikola Bartulic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25589	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear fellow MPs. I'm sorry that the assembly is almost empty because this is still, I think, an important topic, especially the backdrop of Brexit, and why we need to pass a new law that will regulate this issue. Today, the European Council is also discussing this issue and the new budget is on the agenda. Croatia, as we know, represents Slovenian Prime Minister Jansa because President Milanovic refused to leave instead of Prime Minister Plenkovic, I will not go into the background of that decision now, but surely this is not the ideal solution, we can only hope that today the network does not fall so that our prime minister can communicate with his colleague Jansa uninterruptedly, here is the situation. However, there is still a reminder of what led to Brexit. The British were not satisfied obviously with the functioning of European institutions, which is something that lasts for a long time. They want to make decisions, for example. who and under what conditions may enter the country, it was a major issue in the campaign that preceded the referendum itself, did not agree to the erosion of sovereignty and the transfer of more and more powers in Brussels. And they noticed that the European project went towards centralising political power, and the national states gradually lost the possibility of a sovereign decision on their fate. I think it is important, however, to point out, we are the newest member of the EU, but this creation has its own past, has its own justification, but few have expected such a gap that one very important member will leave the EU. However, we also see in these extraordinary circumstances the pandemic that what the British have decided to leave the EU also has concrete advantages. For example. We see that the first to be vaccinated against the coronary virus, there is no, they are not waiting for the decisions of the regulatory bodies in Brussels, that is one particular one, I would say, a visible change that is going, hopefully, to benefit them. Today we solve technical issues after Brexit and we don't mind being regulated by this law and I think it's a good, good principle of reciprocity, that our citizens who live in the United Kingdom have the same status and treatment. However, he would say something about this phenomenon that this number of our people is growing and is already talking about a new diaspora in some countries. I think we need to look at this issue because, obviously, EU membership did not guarantee that our country would necessarily prosper and we already see that some regions are empty or half empty. And we're all aware, unfortunately, that our country is being threatened by a demographic collapse. There is a lot of talk here about stability in Croatia, but the facts suggest that we are losing the race, the battle above all, because economic growth depends largely on a skilled workforce, it is very important to point out. So we can't expect strong economic growth if our population, especially labourable, is a viable part of the population in decline. Sometimes we hear that some people are coming back to Croatia, it is mostly people who are at the end of the working century who want to spend the last years of their lives in Croatia, and these young people who are just entering the labour market who are unfortunately still leaving Croatia. And we're vulnerable here, we're objectively vulnerable, and I don't think it's a waste, and we need to use this debate today to underline it again. The new census next year will show how many people we lost and how bad this situation is. We are already passing a new Foreign Law to meet the needs of the labour market. So instead of implementing structural reforms and becoming more competitive, we become a country that is dependent on foreign workers. We still have over 500 parafiscal duties, something at an earlier point was said, so over 500 parafiscal duties. And I don't see with this government any willingness to change this worrying state. The structure of the new budget actually shows the best. We still have a huge, inefficient and expensive public administration and we actually have an excessive share of public spending, so the total state in the economy, almost 50%. It's too high in countries that have passed the same transition, we're actually standing at the bottom and a half of the purchasing power that the indicators show. Only Bulgarians stand weaker than Croats. So these are generally known facts, but in my opinion, we should keep repeating it to make our people realize that actually EU membership, I am saying, is no guarantee that the country itself will automatically prosper. Dear MPs and MPs, I continue to argue that Croatia as the newest member of the EU is obviously not using, does not use the possibility of membership sufficiently. As much as there's talk about the billions that we have at our disposal, I'm afraid that money or a lot of those funds won't be spent the best way. We believe that it needs more focus on the needs of the real sector, the real economy, especially in these conditions of the pandemic corona. EU membership should be seen as a means of achieving our national interests, not as a purpose in itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25590	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is the SDP on behalf of which the respected representative Franco Vidovic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25591	... Chairman, the Honorable Representative of the Proposer. [[Speaker not enabled]] In front of us is the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Citizens of the EEA Member States and members of their families with a final draft law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 80th Regulation governing the future residence status of citizens of the United Kingdom, Great Britain and Northern Ireland in the Republic of Croatia and following the end of the transitional period ending on 31 December 2020. Since 1 February 2020, the United Kingdom has in a manner ceased to be a member of the EU by way of an agreement on the withdrawal of the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom and Northern Ireland from the EU and the European Atomic Energy Community. This Agreement also provides for the duration of the transitional period until 31 December 2020 during which EU law applies to the United Kingdom. The objective of the transitional period is to make it possible to adapt state administrations, businessmen and citizens to the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the EU and to carry out negotiations on future relations between the EU and the United Kingdom. What is particularly important is that the withdrawing agreement recognises the need for mutual protection, hence mutual protection of EU citizens and citizens of the United Kingdom and members of their families who were entitled to freedom of movement before 31 December 2020, and guarantees the enforceability of their rights on the basis of the agreement, as well as their justification on the principle of non-discrimination. As regards the regulation of the status of citizens of the United Kingdom and members of their families within the EU, the agreement allows Member States to choose between the two schemes to regulate their residence status and the constitutional system of residence, as prescribed by Article. Article 18(1) of the Agreement and the declaratory system of residence, in accordance with Article 1(1) of the Agreement, shall apply. Article 18(4) of the Agreement. By virtue of this draft law, the Republic of Croatia has decided to apply a declaration system in accordance with which it will not require citizens of the United Kingdom and members of their families within the scope of the agreement, to apply the new residence status as a condition for legal stay, but, by applying the United Kingdom's declarative system of citizens and their family members, the residence status will be based on the very fact that they meet the conditions laid down in the agreement and as long as they meet those conditions. This assumes the existence of residence status which is not conditioned by the constitutional decision of the competent authority, which we at the SDP Club welcome. In this respect, users of the right under the agreement will be allowed to register their residence status, and after the procedure prescribed by this final proposal for a law will be issued by residence documents confirming that status, but the procedure does not have a constitutional character. Excess of the prescribed deadlines for the application or submission of applications for legal stay or the departure of residence documents will not entail the loss of the right to stay or the inability to enter a residence document. For situations of non-compliance with the deadlines for the application or application for legal stay, and the replacement of residence documents shall be prescribed only infringing provisions or fines. In all situations, the deadlines are intended only, the only fine of 200 kuna. In the Republic of Croatia, on 10 December 2020, there are 1133 citizens of the United Kingdom who have a registered residence. Of these 773 persons are located on a temporary stay and 360 are on a permanent stay. And these are persons who, after 31 December 2020, will regulate their legal stay or the establishment of residence documents in the Republic of Croatia. Since this relationship is mutual, we also believe that in the United Kingdom the same or similar regulations will be adopted. The SDP Club supports the proposed amendments and additions to the Law on nationals of the EEA Member States and members of their families governing the residence status of citizens of the United Kingdom after the end of the transitional period ending on 31 December 2020. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25592	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is that of the Most Independent Lists on behalf of whom the respected representative Miro Bulj will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25593	Thank you very much. After the UK exits from the EU, of course, the process takes place to resolve certain human rights within the EU, mainly the citizens of Croatia and the citizens of Great Britain in the countries, in these two countries, of course in the EU. However, here we are asking a series of logical questions for 1333 residence permits that the citizens of Great Britain have achieved, and we are not yet guaranteed it with, with this law, this is not guaranteed, in fact this is a preparation for an agreement which would be a tribune between the UK and EU members, as far as I understand. Or bilateral relations, meaning bilateral relations. I believe that the policy of the Republic of Croatia when we talk about this and leaving the EU which has proved vulnerable to the exit of Great Britain and the large number of Croats living on that, on, in Great Britain, would regulate them. However, I would be most fortunate if we were to create conditions for these people to return not violently, but to live in the Republic of Croatia, so that this debate must raise these questions. And of course there's nothing more in the EU than the open door that Angela Merkel said in 2015 from the migrant crisis today when she says politics. Here's Sebastian Kurtz, the Austrian Chancellor said there are no more closed doors as far as entering the Croatian border. To solve these things bilaterally or in a set, I don't know how it's going to make it easier with Great Britain is the situation that exists. However, the vulnerability of the EU has proved to be Brexit, and the migrant crisis is essentially a key issue, mainly for us as the Republic of Croatia. I would once again ask you a question, to take this opportunity, to warn you that it is not the same migrant crisis in 2015 and the migrant crisis today. Today we have Slovenia on, which sent the army to the border, with which it publicly boasts, drones and everything else, blocked the border. We have another problem, the same is the case with Hungary, so Austria opposes, Slovakia and its prime ministers and interior ministers daily have a meeting to ban all means of the entry of migrants, illegal migrants within the EU, and there Croatia has remained in the sky, or on earth, our border that has more than 1,000 kilometers. It's a good thing you're declaring an exclusive belt, especially as it is, Italy is one of the reasons Italy is declaring IGP towards this part of the sea towards the African continent. So at this point, the migrants have this, we have migrants, 60,000 migrants by estimates in the Biako enclave, we have free space from Turkey to Serbia where, Greece-Serbia where they can simply come across Republika Srpska to the border. We have a huge problem right now that we need to raise to a European level, so, I don't know. Croatia is at this point the only victim will happen when the migrant train moves towards Croatia if we do not control the border. The police can't control such a limit, not what they don't want, but they don't have enough power, and by accepting the Marrakech Agreement, we didn't discuss the problem in the assembly, but we accepted it on the board. Most of them accepted it, didn't want to discuss it in the assembly, and Bundestag discussed the Marrakes Agreement and the problems that could happen. Currently Erdogan is holding the keys to whether migrants are in his area as long as the EU will be able to negotiate with him or in some way try to protect that big wave that would essentially come to Croatia, and Croatian citizens are not guilty of the illegal migrants that took place in Libya, they are not guilty of wars in Syria, they are not guilty of wars in Afghanistan, so we are not to blame. The human line yes, I'm the first to try humanitarianally and it's primarily human, Christian, whatever we look at means it's human aid to them. But illegal migrants are coming here illegally. I can't go into someone else's house. I can't go into your house illegally. And because of the uncertainty of the border, because you are from the MUP, because you are dealing with this topic, and we cannot possibly get into a normal and serious conversation with Andrej Plenkovic, who is dismayed and who is aware that there is no more open door policy Angela Merkel, but simply Croatia is left to itself, and we are EU member. Why, finally, why not help the Croatian police at the Croatian border to ensure the safety of borders, which is the constitutional right to ensure the safety of borders, ensure the safety of people in these areas because Croatia cannot only, when they enter, have no dim migrants within Croatia, they simply stay there. Did we raise that problem enough to level that we stayed behind the barrier behind closed doors because of 2015. It was open meaning migrants were coming and they were taking certain routes to the countries where they were in, mostly in which they wanted to, and it was mostly Germany. In this problem, we don't have an open route. So this EU problem with our citizens is solved, the triba solves both their own here and the triba to find ways for England to treat our people the same way as with residence permits and everything, as far as we're going to see it. The situation is what it is. The political moment is that we have 2/3 of Croatia empty, that our border police do not have enough technical, material, or human potential to control them. We have frequent entrances of illegal migrants at a 1,000-mile border. So it's not me, I'd like you to say here, I know you'll say it's not a topic, but it's a European problem, Brexit was a European problem, the EU. These are all problems that break within the EU certain things, and we as a member of the EU must throw our problems at the precedent. I'd like my fellow parliamentary representatives, and we'd like to talk more about it, if that's a huge problem, let's say, the problem with the people of Gorski Kotar. Every day people call me to feel the fear of these people if there are people there, they're not just children older and powerless. There are the largest number of young people who have probably been one number and, and in the members of ISIL, is no one controlling them. Let us protect these citizens, humanitarian activities the Croatian Triba will distribute with all other members according to these people who have been brought into such an opportunity. And otherwise certain analyses suggest that more and more people will strive from these parts of North Africa, Central Africa, Asia, India, China, to strive, to come to the EU, and our space remains unprotected, empty, our character, Zagora, Slavonia, without the control we need and when you will really be the government law that we have brought here in 2016, the Law on Borders di has been passed, and that at the invitation of course Croatian police to HV to go to help the Croatian police to protect the sovereignty of Croatian borders and to ensure the normal life of people in this area, it was mostly older people who stayed, to be more protected, to be more secure, whether they have many problems, and even younger people in the top area, the Dalmatian Zagora, my Chetin region, now less in Slavonia, it was sometimes in Slavonia, al Gorski Kotar, Lika and that impact on the lowermost part of our country is a great blow and large waves in hundreds of the Croatian cities in the Croatian countries. Of course there's a lot of stuff going on, there's transportation, I don't know if you have those numbers that have profits on these refugees, people transport in a variety of ways. So the Croatian border is insecure, the EU is insecure because of the policy of Andrej Plenkovic, the Croatian border is insecure, the Croatian border is threatened, the people and the population are in fear. What do you do to keep people safe in that area, give us answers? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25594	Thank you very much. You are aware that most of it had nothing to do with this point but could be spoken freely, but I let you speak. Now, on behalf of the promoter, he's finally, and I'm sorry, I haven't seen, at the last minute he's given an individual debate, a respected representative of the story. Comrade Bulj, here you go, which is, which is the injured Rules of Procedure, except that you hurt him, but I didn't warn you about it?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25595	Thank you very much. Let me say it or will you continue? Thank you very much, esteemed chairman, you've hurt an article. 238, 242 to 248 where you have injured all these articles because I, as a parliamentary representative, have spoken within the subject, and since there is a representative of the ministry within the EU, as far as I know, is the problem of the migrant crisis and I think it is legitimate to ask the government's representative to answer that question and that the people finally know whether fear of illegal migrants is necessary.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25596	Thank you very much. You know that's not the subject of this law, if you've read it at all, I don't know, but this migrant topic certainly isn't, so you get a warning. This esteemed representative of the Tale, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25597	Dear colleagues and colleagues, dear Vice President HS. Today we have this topic, which is well technical with what colleagues are related to this topic, which I repeat technically, I can already agree with. But I wanted to get back to you about another piece of work that was later, especially my colleague Bartulic, about what they were talking about later. So, in a nice, peaceful and democratic way, they expressed their views as is similar to a democratic society, but of course we can disagree with them. First of all, I would like to look back at what he is saying, which was mentioned by my colleague Bartulica above all when he spoke about EU centralisation. It's one, one, and we can tell a lie that appears in public space. Its size of the EU budget speaks a lot about EU centralisation. So, the EU budget 1% of GDP alone and the EU, while some national countries' budgets are 30, 40, 50% of GDP, so it's already saying a lot about EU centralisation. The EU is one political union that has very limited powers. As far as sovereignty is concerned, yes. One small part may be passed on, but there is again a question of citizens whose sovereignty ultimately belongs and citizens in each country decide how much they want the central state to be strong, how much they want regional government or local government to take part in the decision-making process. As far as the Brexit itself is concerned, since this is today a topic between Croatia and the United Kingdom, I will not comment on it, I doubt I'll start some diplomatic scandal, but I'll just say it and I'll stop thinking it wasn't a good decision, but more than that, I won't talk. Also when we talk about diaspora, unfortunately, hundreds of thousands of people have taken advantage of the chance to leave Croatia, but that, that may be an indicator of some of our faults. We really need to implement reforms, we have a lot, we have a lot, we have hundreds of parafiscal commitments, we have heavy taxes, taxes that weigh heavily on our economy, we know that we have a large share of state-owned companies, state-owned companies and the social state are two different things, and from these state-owned companies we come up with and a good part of unfortunately, and there are corruption in them, and these are definitely things that we need to think about and relieve the Croatian economy by raising the standard of Croatian citizens to keep people in Croatia. It is also mentioned why the President of the Republic did not go to the meeting. Otherwise, the President, the President of the European Council, is going to the European Council, and the President of the Republic is going when it comes to the threat of national security, which was not the case this time. As far as the EU itself is concerned, it gives a really big, big chance. So that's, that's the Union, the Union, we can say the Union of Citizens, 447 million citizens. These 447 million citizens are of course consumers and this gives incredible opportunities of course for the Croatian economy to take advantage of. We must also say that the EU is one of the largest economies in the world, alongside the US and China, and that is now, of course, the question of how strong this European identity, identity, sense of belonging to Europe is. But it can certainly be one thing, one thing that EU citizens themselves, and also Croatian citizens can be proud to belong to such a strong, strong political union. As far as these technical matters are concerned, I have already said that I will not enter these technical matters, so I would just say that the EU gives us great opportunities, brings its pluses, brings certain minuses, but I certainly think that such a large peace project that has been going on for decades where peaceful ways, means that there is still cooperation between 27 countries, 447 million citizens, I think it is something that we should always respect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25598	Thank you. We have one replica of the respected representative Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25599	I thank the chairman. A respected colleague, therefore, has been mentioned repeatedly in public these days since yesterday, as President Milanovic refused to go to the Council of Europe. However, until now it has been a common procedure and has often happened that the Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia represents the views of Slovenia, as well as that of the Prime Minister of Slovenia. It's not the first time, it's not the last time, and you're really right when you say that, that the President of the Republic is somehow authorized to represent the Republic before the Council of Europe when matters concern defence and national security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25600	Thank you. But it's not the President of the Republic now, is it? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25601	As far as I know, as far as I know and in, and in other countries, it has been known to happen in case, I don't know, Prime Minister Finland can't, it's replaced by one of the leaders of another country, so it's not the first time that something like this has happened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25602	Now, on behalf of the promoter, a final statement will be made by honoring Secretary of State Zarko Katic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25603	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The proposer received another amendment to the text of the final draft law submitted by the HDZ Representatives' Club. The amendment shall apply to Art. 3. to which an article is added, to which an article is added. 69c. Since the amendment, the amendment deletes the excessive, excessive appeal to Art. 5. 15. Since the legal remedy is already prescribed. 69c. No 4th Proposer accepts this amendment. I thank you all for your participation in the debate. Just to point out that the United Kingdom's withdrawal agreement from the EU is in force from 1 February 2020, and for Chapter 2 which regulates the stay has lasted a transitional period or lasts until 31 December of this year, only for certain dilemmas and questions raised here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25604	Thank you. We have one replica of Honorable counsel Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25605	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, this item of the agenda has also opened a debate on what were the reasons for Brexit, the advantages or flaws of EU membership and, therefore, I think it is important for Croatian citizens to point out once again that this decision was obviously geopolitical Britain which they made legally, however, cannot be compared to the position of Great Britain and the Republic of Croatia, so the former one empire that has... which has former colonies, which has one huge market on which to count today. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] The countries of Central Europe and thus the Republic of Croatia are not in the situation. The Republic of Croatia without EU membership would probably open up a simple possibility for it to be in this mini Schengen, in some Balkan association as a waiting room, and certainly not some... Like the Great Britain has. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] I don't think it's possible to compare it and once again so point out and the benefits of EU membership for the Republic of Croatia. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-11-0.u25606	Thank you. Okay, that's it. Thank you very much. That concludes the debate on this point, and we'll vote on it when we get the conditions.
