ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3702	Dear ladies and gentlemen, I am opening the second extraordinary session of the Croatian Parliament. I warmly welcome you all. I particularly welcome the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Mr. Andrej Plenkovic, and the members of the Croatian Government present. I called the 2nd extraordinary meeting of the HS at the request of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, based on Articles 220 and 221. The Rules of Procedure of the HS for the adoption of the Law on the restoration of buildings damaged by the earthquake in the City of Zagreb, Krapina-Zagorje County and Zagreb County. We are moving to set the agenda of the session with a call for the session. You have also received a proposal for the agenda, in accordance with Article. 225 C. 3. The rules of procedure of the written objections to the draft agenda have not been established that all the proposed items have been included in the agenda of the 2nd extraordinary session. Dear ladies and gentlemen, allow me to inform you that the HS Presidency has taken its meeting at yesterday's session, and regarding the way HS works unanimously made a decision on the mandatory use of facial masks or medical masks at HS sessions. It is also unanimous to decide on the launch of a special method of work of HS in art. 293a The Rules of Procedure of the HS Office shall declare the outbreak of COVID-19, which means that there may be a maximum of 41 MPs plus chairpersons in the assembly at the same time. As far as the vote is concerned, we will vote in three rooms and the same vote may be held if it is necessary by electronic means or video, which means that MPs would be possibly affected by COVID-19 or who, in mandatory self-insulation, were allowed to vote with video. Furthermore, yesterday there was one proposal at the presidency that I adopted that individual debates could also be spoken from this main speaker as one part of the MPs who have been new to take their whole life from the beginning of the mandate and so far are in masks and will have opportunities for the public to see them for who they are, and not just under masks. So you're all going to have a chance that you're speaking individually to perform here with this main pay phone without a mask. The replicas you will receive from the seat of the representative and the MPs will speak with masks, and then you can stay here the whole time while you respond to replicas and speak without a mask. For this reason, we have put on another plexiglas so that there is also protection between the chairman and the one who will speak from a pay phone without a mask. Discussions in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. 293a, on behalf of the promoter, will last 20 minutes, on behalf of the clubs for 10 minutes and a single speech for 5 minutes. We also agreed yesterday at the Bureau to hand over the applications personally at the table of the chairman each day of the 9.00-hour session, and that it is not possible to submit a application at other places such as the secretariat or in front of the assembly as well as to submit more applications than once on behalf of other MPs. I would also remind you that it is not possible to modify the order of the debate by agreement between the MPs. Ladies and gentlemen, before moving to the debate on points according to the established agenda, and on the basis of Article. The 120th century 4th century. Rules of Procedure and Art. 5. The Law on the Government of the Republic of Croatia, Mr Ivan Malenica, Minister of Justice and Administration, will give the solemn oath because for the last time, for health reasons, he could not have done so. According to the above articles of the Rules of Procedure and the Law on the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I will pronounce the text of the oath, and then I will call upon the Minister who stands up and pronounces "I swear". The text of the oath reads: “I swear by my honor that I will act consciously and responsibly in my work, that I will stick to the Constitution and the law and respect the legal ancestor and that I will stand up for all progress of the Republic of Croatia.” Ivan Malenica Minister of Justice and Administration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3708	‘I swear.’ [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3709	I thank you and congratulate the minister on his sworn oath and wish him much success in the conduct of this responsible and honorable duty.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3710	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Miro Bulj, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3711	Dear Croatian citizens who are following this, we see what the coronary crisis has done. what effects we have from the crown crisis. In essence, the coronary crisis has only revealed all the bad policies that have been led into the Republic of Croatia. We're not self-sustaining, we're not self-sustaining, we don't have agricultural production, we don't have food production, we've destroyed everything, we've never destroyed more incentives, never less production, never more imports, and never less exports, that's about food production, we import 3 billion EUR products. What measures have we taken? Have we modeled our fields? Have we taken any measures that are effective except for the beautiful story of EU desert billions, while at the same time we in the Republic of Croatia have more and more empty villages, cities and a literal village extinct. In order for the village to survive we must protect domestic producers, we cannot continue import lobbys and importers and pests within the ministries to work against villages and peasants. So I've given certain laws in the past term, and now I'm going to put them back in the procedure to stop the emigration of the Croatian village, without the Croatian village there's no rich state, without a model field to the squares of 800 000 hectares of unprocessed surfaces, and at the same time our peasant in Neretva, in the Ceti region, in Slavonia, in Zagorje, the sea, cannot sell his product, but weave him, these are the facts of the moment. So, what are we doing besides importing agricultural products? Absolutely nothing and what we share the incentives of billions, we share to those, literally here in the crumb, literally I said to one another at the confrontation, we literally share the incentive in cattle farming in the junk of people who don't know how many cows there are tits, they don't know what it looks like, while our village and villager is moving out, they're shutting down the firehouses, they're shutting down villages, 2/3 of Croatia are empty, I don't know if anyone hears this cry? I know it's important Zagreb, I know, it's our capital. Croatia is dying for us, if we do not take urgent measures, not enough exorbitant corridors and promises of billions, the question is where will end these billions and who will end up with those billions. Of course, when I'm talking about this problem, this morning I met people at the door who are dealing, meaning transportation in tourism, either by taxi, or by buses, people have Leasings and credits and the first measure of the Croatian government that was supposed to be in the last session is a moratorium on loans and interest, and that's why the quick elections were so, if you'll only see when the executions are opened, when they say we're not going to throw out public notebooks, and before the election they were saying, the minister here has exhibited his law here that the public notebooks will be thrown out. When 400,000 times three, four people are blocked by families, that's half of Croatia will be hungry and thirsty, so where are the billions that the EU promises you? Where's that money? Except for the post-stocracy in this square, i.e. The headquarters that was to be cared for ispoliticized literally, and also parliamentary representatives paid by the people to fight not to smell the essence of the assembly, at the same time as the Croatian self-insulation comes to support this government. And yesterday, vice presidents of the assembly and President Jandrokovic, Vice President Sanader, Škoro, Ostojić, who doesn't, I don't know how many more 5, vote that you can't be inside in so many unanimity, you have to wear masks, so I wear a mask as a recommendation, and whoever orders us here to wear a mask, only the law can or the parliament make that decision, but sees a Lola, Hrebak can vote when he lacks one hand in self-insulation, comes here to whom the doctor has given self-insulation, if you parliamentary deputies can't speak, you have to be decimated, you can't speak for 5 minutes, you can't stand these problems that the people expect and what they pay us for. My people in the constituency are paying me to fight for this and to say this, and it is not to be an obedient and dog or any vice president or president, but a parliamentary representative elected by the people to represent the attitudes of that people who sent me to the assembly in the interests of them, and I will continue to do so loudly regardless of your measures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3727	Given that it's 13 o'clock, we're now going to start reporting... on behalf of the representatives' clubs and independent representatives' offices. The first to be reported for a position, distinguished representative Karolina Vidovic Kristo.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3728	... /Intruder: microphone./ [[The speaker is not enabled.]] /Intruder: microphone./ [[The speaker is not enabled.]] On today 29 years and 29 days ago, Serbian aggressors beastly killed journalist Stjepan Penic. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] He's the first dead journalist in the defense-defying Homeland War. HRT reports that Serb rebels and aggressors came for him, tortured him and killed him in the most cruel way. Still alive, they burned his body in front of other prisoners of the Serb camp in Dale. 20 years ago, he disappeared. Schreter. Milorad Pupovce, where is Dr. Schreter? Is it true that the body can't be found because it's not there? Did your colleagues burn him as a journalist, Stjepan Penic? There's evidence that he was thrown out by wild pigs. Milorad Pupovce, where is Dr. A shretch you guaranteed to bring him out of Serbian aggressor hands for two Serbian doctors who didn't fall or hair off their heads? Mr Plenkovic, the same is part of your anti-constitutional ruling coalition, with the help of the SDP and your HDZ, is being held in Croatia for years against constitutional elections and for years you have taken over the power against the constitution. The most hated formulation in the Croatian public space is "let the institutions do their job". The institutions are occupied and corrupt. It is clear to everyone that if courts and other supervisory and repressive bodies do not work, that the consequences are borne by a large majority of citizens, but there are also those to whom such a situation corresponds because they benefit from such a situation. Here is a concrete example of a controversial entrepreneur who has a foothold in former totalitarian communism, a true example of the communist golden youth. Before stating any shocking information, it should be noted that the ruling peak in Croatia is not in its positions because of its knowledge, skills and abilities, but because of the privilege that allows them to have communist origin. The entrepreneur is called Emil Tedeschi who ladies and gentlemen, has 5 million and 900 000 m2 hunting grounds with direct access to the sea on our Adriatic pearl, the island of Hvar. For all of this, he pays an annual concession of ridiculous £100,000 per year, with Croatia's forests being obliged to maintain roads and forests. The cost for Croatian forests reportedly reaches up to about a million kuna a year. This means that Croatian taxpayers pay Croatian forests for Tedeschi to have his Hvar empire. It is also estimated that Tedeschi pays 30 times the price of a real market price for such a pearl. We're getting an estimate that in the 10 years of the Tedeschi concession, he illegally took over 30 million kunas. It is money that ultimately lacks Croatian taxpayers. To note that hunting grounds are public good, the purpose of giving concession is to use such space for tourism and to generate income from this generation, but Tedeschi simply fenced the entire hunting grounds, put on surveillance cameras, paved maritime well-being and spent a number of other illegalities. The people of Hvar are permanently rebelling over this situation and Tedeschi as part of a deep state derived from totalitarian communism, of course, is protected. Who has the right to humiliate the people of Hvar in order to wrongly protect an individual? Here's your proof. In my hand is the report of the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering with the Croatian State Attorney's Office, the class and UR number, subject US Brands Atlantic Trade d.o.o., notice of suspicious transactions. It's about illegal payments of about 30 million kuna. This is one of the examples of DORH protecting crime. On what has been proven here, the Croatian state lost 6 million kuna to tax evasion. This is another in a series of evidence that the DORH serves individuals and groups and against Croatian citizens. It also violates the European acquis. As we know, the influence on justice is a criminal offense, and for him who influences him and for him who influences himself. I'm going to refer all the facts I've brought to the government in the form of a parliamentary matter. I expect to receive an answer within 30 days and to initiate appropriate procedures in accordance with it. Notingly, I still haven't received a reply from the finance minister, which exactly cost 100,000 budget kunas in Serbia this year. As for Tedeschi, the Hvar case and tax evasion, of course I am aware that Tedeschi's friend Andrej Plenkovic will do everything to cover up this affair as he does otherwise, as he did Milanovic in his term. It is clear to everyone that, because of corruption, we have a 25% VAT instead of, say, 17% because poor citizens have to finance the ruling communist golden youth. Of course corruption isn't left or right, it's the evil we have to fight here, us and every one of us. Are we on the side of rights and justice or are we on the side of corruption and injustice? I am telling the responsible that I will do everything to shed light on these illegal actions and actions, if necessary, internationalise this case and address European institutions because the fight for justice and the rule of law has no alternative.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3729	Thank you. Next is distinguished representative Marko Milanović litre, presentation of the position of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3744	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. There has been a problem in Croatia for 13 years that has not been solved yet, which is estimated to affect daily lives, almost 125 000 Croatian families. The problem I'm talking about today is not a question of worldview or ideology, but it's a matter of political will or political esquivalence of the problem. The wider Croatian public is not aware that credit problems with Swiss francs are still not resolved. In the last 13 years, Croatians and Croats have been struggling with courts, banks, interest groups and their government to correct the unfair practices of banks and in fact this fight should be the struggle of the Croatian state. The state should interfere with the lives of its citizens but should allow them to protect in cases such as loans in CHF. Our fellow citizens and fellow citizens leave their homes among other things and because of a slow, three-way, inefficient judicial system, which from day to day sends more and more of our citizens into service and blockades due to contracts concluded with unfair banking practices. Croatian sovereigns sent a letter, i.e. a written question concerning judicial decisions taken by the Supreme Court and the High Court of Commerce of the Republic of Croatia. They have rightly established that the corrupt provisions of the credit agreement on the currency clause relating to the Swiss franc and the variable interest rate were based on unfair bank practice. The fact that, according to the legislation of the Republic of Croatia, nothing has been working since the time of the conclusion of the legal transaction, it was an argument for the retroactive application of the law. If anything is harmful, it's no harm to all regardless of social criteria. We asked the Commission for an indication when it will publish its decision on the announced procedure for the initiation of an evaluation of the validity of the Law on the conversion of the credit agreement with the foreign exchange clause in CHF. We received an answer in July of this year, stating in accordance with the practice of the EU Court of Justice with regard to Directive 93/13 of the EC of '93. Member States shall ensure that, in accordance with Article 21(3) of the Treaty, the provisions of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and with the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, as set out in the Annex to Implementing Decision (EU) 2016/35, the provisions of this Agreement and the provisions of this Agreement, as set out in the Annex to Implementing Decision (EU) 2016/35, are complied with in accordance with the Annex to this Decision. in Spain. Several Member States have brought or planned to take measures to address issues related to consumer credits in foreign currency, but we have not heard from the Croatian government about such plans, although it is clear from the Commission's answer that the solution to this problem depends solely on the Croatian government. The arrival of the corona of the crisis and the complete blockage of the private sector in this year have made our fellow citizens even more vulnerable. Some 300,000 new executions and blockades are being handled after the summer. Moratories on loans are also just a patch solution to the problems that await us in the fall. This way I would like to appeal to all parliamentary representatives in this honorable home to stand in the protection of our fellow citizens, and to address once and for all the issue of unfair banking practices. It is time to show the Croatian people that their lives and lives of their families are ahead of everyday politics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3745	Thank you. The next is the presentation of the position of distinguished representative Mirela Ahmetovic on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3758	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and fellow MPs, Minister Ćoric, in his statement on the other day, notes that the INE decision to fire 250 workers has been subject to business conditions. Here, the minister points out that 250 INE workers have received or will be fired as a result of the supply and demand developments in the market. So Minister Coric is a supporter of the market economy for which Croatia has been identified. On the other hand, Minister Coric is not a supporter of the market economy when he blesses the export of quality Croatian oil to Hungary for the purposes of working on Hungarian refineries and Hungarian workers, and the price at which the minister's oil exports has no idea, but he believes that exports are very positive and very profitable for Croatia. The market economy no longer plays a role for Minister Coric. There, the minister submits under the half-dominated state that Croatia has been facing Hungary for several years. It is clear to me that, following the fall in INA income due to the circumstances of the crisis caused by the pandemic of the coronary virus, there is a need for rationalisation, of course, but how morally and politically justified it is to reduce that fall of income on the back of 250 RS workers, which is already questionable or not at all questionable, is not moral, nor is it justified. The fall in income is conditioned ladies and gentlemen of something else entirely, and we all know it here, and so do those who are watching us today. It is the energy colonisation of Croatia by the Hungarians that has escalated over the past few years. INA lost markets outside Croatia as a result of the commercial policy of MOL, a mandatory investment contract for MOL in INU, in the modernisation of our refineries no one is looking anymore. The Hungarians have achieved their goal. In the last 10 years, INA has not invested in new sources nor in secondary production methods, and everything to make MOL realize the Hungarian government's policy, which is why INU actually took over. The Croatian government does not stand behind the business interests of INE. This is why Croatian workers suffer today and 250 of them in the course of the coronary crisis instead of focusing all of our production capacities on Croatian refineries where our workers work and create additional value with the oil we have and sell it under wherever and where higher prices. We have no idea at what price we give oil, we give oil to the Hungarians and of course we fire Croatian workers because we don't need the refinery, we don't need the employment, we don't need the Hungarians. Of course, the government's policy has led to the fact that we count only collateral victims, and these are unfortunately Croatian workers. Gentlemen, this is not justified, nor can it be justified in any market economy today when even the most liberal economies are looking at how to protect man, how to protect the existence of his people, how to protect employment, how to protect existing jobs, we fire our people, we sell our national interests. All the stories of the buy-in of INE are stories of calming the public and creating an illusion that the government cares about national interests. However, the government first allowed INA as a national interest to eventually devastate and kill and now spend millions on consultants who should assess the value of a worthless company. The only thing that's valuable in that company is employees. However, the government considers them worthless and sends them on the road. Today, the purchase of INA would not lead to an increase in employment because it requires a growth in production, which, of course, has been moved to the Hungarian refineries, for the employment of Hungarian workers. The purchase of INA would only bring Croatia an even greater deficit in the state budget, which would put social programmes and social contributions at stake for these 250 workers and for all other socially endangered citizens. Will it go in this direction to overcome the pandemic crisis? Minister Coric is perfectly normal for our workers to go to the road That's the safe Croatia. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3774	Next statement of view on behalf of the Smart, Glass Representative Club, the distinguished representative of Anka Mrak Taritaš.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3775	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I will use these five minutes to say a few words about energy recovery. So, we're here when we talk about rebuilding after the earthquake of destroyed parts of the city of Zagreb or neighbouring counties, we talk a lot about rebuilding, we talk about how complete we must be, but these days, more precisely, the topic of energy restoration of family houses opened up at the beginning of the week. By the way, I absolutely feel that energy restoration is an excellent project. He's great with a few aspects. The first aspect is I'm an architect and you won't blame me, houses and better-looking houses with new facades look better than houses without facades. The second aspect is the wallet, so when you renovate the multi-state building and the family house for energy, you spend less. There are cases, especially in some parts of Croatia that say it is incomparably less spent both in winter and in summer because it is actually in a much better, really state and much less needed for energy heating in winter or cooling in summer. The third aspect is, we're full of climate change, environmental change, environmental protection, the third aspect is, we show how responsible we are, we're wasting less energy, we're using new materials, and it's a great aspect. After 5 years, the Croatian state, or this government, decided to enter into the energy reconstruction of family homes. For the past 4-5 years, she has argued that this is complicated from this or that point of view, she has now decided not to use EU funds because, as we know, they have their own methodologies and ways, they used it, she decided to use the budget, but also better because if you use the budget to enable someone to work energy recovery, someone will pay taxes, someone will buy construction material, it is an opportunity to rebuild the construction material industry and then come up with the way it works in the Republic. In the Republic of Croatia, all such good ideas during the time we have the HDZ government functioned according to the model introduced by former Minister Zhaoac, and the model is called the fastest finger. That means, you need to collect all the documentation, you need to know exactly what you need, you have a certain deadline and our fellow citizens decently there take, print and scrigulate, yeah, project pieces 1 I have, the ownership list of pieces 2 I have, energy certificate pieces that and that I have, all that gives some money and everything costs in mind really that through, that the ultimate goal which is a great goal, which is a good goal and then we have a case that we have had to see, open the page, suddenly the site has fallen, when you can once again in an hour, an hour and a half walk into that same website, almost, past cat with cookies, finished. And now it'll be very interesting to see, I'm a lot of years old, so no more, I don't really believe in coincidences, you know the coincidences are rare, it'll be interesting to see who your first winners were. But in this context we can absolutely put in line with today's debate on the Law on the Reconstruction of Zagreb, or to be fair and correct, are also part of Zagreb County or Krapina-Zagorska, where we do not have a number of things defined, but we have that everything will be in the programme of measures, so there will be a new way. What if it's the fastest finger model again? Because the law has so many unknowns that this model the fastest finger that has already been installed once has proved absolutely similar, you are formally fine. Did you open it? Yes, it is. Did you give anyone a chance to sign up? Yes, it is. Is everything needed or capacity filled? They did. The fact that an hour and a half couldn't be accessed, and someone else was obviously because he was directly there in the fund, so he handed over the paperwork, I'm sorry you weren't on time. Don't make that model the fastest finger still works. Why do good projects and good ideas always have to be blacked out and stained? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3776	Thank you. Now we're gonna take a 10-minute break for the board's session. We'll continue at 14 o'clock. It's 1:00 P.M. The following statement of view is the esteemed representative of Gary Cappelli on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3785	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Well, as many things have been said these days and talked and said, "responsibility" is heard, and in this sense I will connect the tourist season, today when we talk about the city of Zagreb and everything, it may be strange for someone to look back at the tourist season, but if we know that it is 20% of the impact of GDP today, there's a lot of talk about this crash of GDP and everything that's going to happen, I don't want to create one climate of one situation where one huge concern exists. There is, from America, China, Japan, so nothing new in Croatia is happening out there. Therefore, we would not want to further worsen that something in Croatia is extra bad that is happening out there which is not or that we also like to compare what happens to the GDP of other countries that are much more developed, which are not dependent on tourism, which is more dependent on some other industries, finances and the like, so they are affected precisely because of tourism. Because if I told you the same thing, if one Italy had 13% of the impact on tourism GDP, then they'd ask a little question. We're somewhere at 20%. So what's so important about Italy is tourism, and you see 13% is the impact of tourism in Italy, that one Venice had a drop in tourists this year 90%. So we're talking about a completely situation that we can hardly say that at this point Croatia has done the most important thing very well and responsibly and safely preparing the tourist season in a way that it opened the borders in time, in a way that the first one in Europe had a health protocol as it crosses the borders, how a tourist will behave in a camp, in a hotel, in private accommodation, on a boat trip and similar things, the first one had it in Europe. The first one had that "Enter Croatia" app, and at the border we made yellow-colored tourists who had previously applied to the app and knew exactly that they had received their name and last name to know exactly where they were going and that it had been recorded. So one very responsible approach, one safe approach tourists recognized and came to Croatia with a large number. At this point in Croatia, we still have 290,000 tourists of which 210,000 foreign tourists. So, one Italy, I repeat, we like to compare with other countries when something isn't supposed to see how they do better, so I'm saying if they're so marketingly strong, and there's a lot of talk in the media and here in the Parliament that we haven't done as the Greeks do, the Italians promote, etc. Greece had a drop of 90%, Italy had a fall of local tourists 60%, and foreign 80%, and we had a fall on today we have somewhere in some counties, so for the first seven months we had as much as 60% achieved compared to last year which was a historic, record tourist year and it's hard to compare because such as last year will never be likely again. We can compare ourselves eventually to 2018 and build data and some national tourism strategy for the future in 2018, 2017. This is something that goes in line with the sustainable development system and everything we want to do to be sustainable. And if we compare it then Croatia has definitely had the best tourist year in these abnormal conditions, if we can say so. So, if it hadn't been for this last hotspot, the last ten days when the most prices Croatia would have been certainly far, far away in an even better situation and could have achieved what we planned somewhere. Everyone wonders, however, we are with our analysis somewhere and the government is very clear and responsible the prime minister said that we expect about 40% of the results from the year before and that is what is happening these days. So nothing happened but good preparation, good approach, primarily security of headquarters and all those who worked to give us credit in tourism so that today we can count numbers we didn't even dream of, maybe some who didn't know it, but we made it very clear. As for shipbuilding, INA, Agrokora, tax corrections have been given and will be back since 1.1, as far as Bata is concerned, talks continue at exactly the 9th month is agreed and promised so will be joined. Investment in tourism 55% in the last four years, proof that Croatia is a safe country. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3798	The next statement of view is Commissioner Sandra Bencic, on behalf of the Green-Left bloc's Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3799	Thank you. Honorable MPs and MPs. Today I'm going to talk about an affair that we're all following up on one of the biggest corruption affairs these days, if we can talk more about the biggest ones, each new one is the biggest one, and this is an affair related to Joseph the Roman. And I'm going to talk about one leg of that corrupt octopus that leads directly to Minister Coric and his role in the Kriš-Padena Wind Power Plant affair, as well as to the investor CMP, who owns Mr. Milenko Bašić. So just to remember what this is about, at the end of 2013, the Croatian energy agency HERA issued a solution to the acquisition of the privileged electricity producer to the CEMP and also issued a solution for the intended expansion of the wind power plant. The solution was issued would not have been believed on December 31st because it is known that it is the very day when agencies work hard and issue solutions. This solution was also issued for four years, so within those four years, the investor had to realise a certain percentage of the investment in order to maintain that status and could also get a preferential electricity price based on that status. However, since the CEMP changed the project in the meantime and decided to build different wind power plants, instead of 71 wind generators per 2MW decided to build them 48 times 3MW. Since it is a different technology that is much larger than any wind generator with much larger sticks, etc., it is estimated by even two professional services of the two ministries that should be done or a new environmental impact assessment or that a major impact assessment procedure should be carried out on the ecological network. Minister Slaven Dobrovic then also made such a solution and demanded that such a new impact assessment be made on the ecological network. However, this solution was not long in force because we are getting a new minister in June 2017, it was Tomislav Ćoric. He is one of the first things he has done to undo exactly that solution and has allowed the investor to implement and meet the conditions that will allow him to maintain this status of a privileged electricity producer, which has resulted specifically in them receiving electricity megawatts instead of EUR 43 per megawatt like everyone else, so they will receive EUR 94 per megawatt, which is as much as 118% higher than the market price. This year, we learned that she directly lobbyed Josip Rimac for such a solution to the situation, with Director HERO Jurekovic, who in 2019 and brought several solutions to the purchase of electricity from CEMPA. What is being raised as a question is whether Minister Coric was directly involved in this octopus, Josipa Rimac, and whether he made that decision that allowed the CMPU to sell electricity at this higher price for the next 14 years, whether it made it possible because there were benefits, whether there was trade influence or whether there was a direct and issue of bribery and corruption, we hope to find out after the end of the USKOK investigation, but even if it was not, what we are saying is that Minister Coric was deliberately aware of what the consequences would have taken away 1.9 billion kuna to minimal Croatian citizens over the next 14 years more than we should normally pay. So he knowingly and deliberately made a decision that one person, a private investor, gets, and 4 million citizens of this country lose, not a little money. So, our view is that regardless of the motivation whether it was corruption or not, this is about a decision that will cost the citizens of Croatia billions for the next 14 years and that such a way of managing that amount of money is required by the pockets of Croatian citizens by the highest and the most difficult degree of political responsibility. Why still the government of the Republic of Croatia, the prime minister, and Minister Coric have not explained to us whether and how he intends to take responsibility for this situation. [[Intruder: Time.]] What we see that the only thing HDZ sees in the green economy is as green.../The speech room is off./... [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3811	The following statement of view is the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja on behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSS and HSU.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3812	Dear Mr. Vice President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. I have no need to deal with populism here, but in any case, I want to speak openly, honestly, honestly about the problems that are plagued by the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. This 18th month stands out the four-month moratorium on top, there is no sign of any new solutions in sight, and I will advocate because I have made a public promise to extend that moratorium, but no more than a month. Why not more than a month? Because personally, and I believe you who are watching and listening to me, and you who are here can't believe that all 400,000 citizens are under the same conditions and equally socially endangered. I'm sure neither you nor the citizens believe it's true, that we have 400,000 citizens under the influence that are socially endangered because there would be dead people by the containers, that we understand each other if that were the case. The government has everything, just all the mechanisms, says who's threatened, who doesn't pay with his guilt as a debt guarantee to the debtor who's gone and who doesn't pay, so he can check everything. We have so much administration to check out those who are not threatened, who work, who earn, who can properly service their religious debt relations so that they can distinguish them. The government has all the mechanisms. Since there is no indication that this is happening and that the government is doing it, I am willing to propose an extension of the moratorium for another month. In this sense, I will request today's parliamentary issue of information from the HZMO because there are 22,000 pensioners who are carried out through HZMO and I want to know. I believe they are, and I am convinced that they are the most endangered group of our society due to small incomes, due to the impaired health condition, because of the inability to earn additional earnings, because of the fear of COVID-19, but they are the same as all Croatian citizens are certainly not all in the same position. Therefore, if we want to have a fair state, if we want to implement certain measures, then the administration of this country must make an effort to separate the grain from the weeds. Because, you know, you've all heard about the term "breathful litigation," and you know there's an obligation, and somebody's gonna pay for it. My people, if we're going to be honest citizens of this country, everyone has to serve their debt, everyone has to be as responsible as I said for maintaining their buildings, so everyone has to be responsible for their debt religious relations. If we go from individual responsibility and institutions work, they separate what is responsible from what is irresponsible, then we will succeed. We're gonna make it what? Well, what's most needed. We're 30 years old, do we have company, do we have fair, fair society? We don't have gentlemen. We've still got it covered, buddy, and you've got it on the same criteria. It doesn't work like that, and it doesn't go from second to second. I'm saying this out of it because your religious relationship with the moratorium won't go away. They'll be charged eventually, some will pay for life. Therefore, let us protect those who are existentially threatened, and those who may pay. So the moratorium does that until the institutions do their job, but no longer than a month. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3815	The next presentation of the position is the esteemed representative Predrag Štromar on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the CNS and Independent Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3816	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. I don't have to talk too much about the consequences of the pandemic COVID on the economy because we all know it. However, my intention is to warn me that the consequences could be more far-reaching especially for some industries and some concrete companies unless certain steps are taken to preserve jobs. A concrete example is “Vartex”, a Varazdin company whose transformation from textile to fashion industry over the last two years has produced excellent results. They changed the design, but also the quality of the fabric, and the new concept of the collection of placement through the expansion of the retail network. Seven new shops were opened in 2019, and a web shop is open that now works extremely well and is extremely large 10% sales. Installing a fashion bus that tours smaller cities and places so that fashion is present with all citizens. The results in 2019 in selling their own brand are more than satisfactory growth of 55%. This year, “Vartex” continued restructuring and the results by 19.3.2020 were 37%. But then there was a pandemic and everything stopped. Since the closing of the vartex retail store, shops have been closed since Easter in the part of the year when Vortex makes the biggest sales mainly of wedding suits, crises, first honours, graduations. The lack of “Vartex” income was replaced by the production of facial masks, produced exclusively for donations to civil protection, MUP, MORH, homes for the powerless and everyone needed at that time. The donation amounted to more than 700,000 kuna. After that, they produced masks for commercial purposes and thanks to the scales of the government of the Republic of Croatia, paid minimum wages, the company survived without firing any worker. July and August recorded a decline in retail sales of only 15% compared to 2019, however the missed revenues from March to June were not compensated by neither the company's efforts nor the mask sales. Despite the crisis, they successfully agreed to sell some of the inactive assets among the banks had to pay back half the capers and they were probably the only company that had ever returned more money to HABOR than it had received from HABOR. The sale of all real estate, the sale of all inactive assets and the closure of debts is ongoing. In 2020. Vartex should already have open stores in Slovenia and Serbia and continue to increase fashion business. Sewing for others for example Hugo Boss is also reduced to 50%, making Vartex have at least 200 employees, and it is important for us to keep every job and not only that.../incomprehensible/... more than anything you need to raise the salary average because there those hardworking people are extremely underpaid. Why am I saying all this? Well, to be clear, it's not about a company that hasn't invested anything yet. We all remember that Varteks, unlike many who later gave financial injections, had successfully passed the pre-fashion settlement process and had it not been for the pandemic there would have been no pandemic, and this Croatian brand would have continued to develop. I therefore propose a significantly more efficient, faster and simpler acquisition of HABOR liquidity credit measures. Help with funding to save jobs. To get masks as much as possible from Croatian manufacturers including Vartex. To implement the development of the Vartex complex as soon as possible through a strategic project, for which the procedure has already begun. And to end up getting a little more dedicated to Croatian brands. Let's remember billions of the next few years invested in shipbuilding sites from the budget. Vartex needs a little bit to be a strong, high-quality fashion company that won't need any help when Covid is gone.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3820	The next statement of view is the esteemed representative Marin Lerotić on behalf of the IDS Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3821	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs. In recent days, I have heard about the historic decline of GDP in Croatia, the fall caused by COVID 19. Today, it makes business more difficult or even impossible for our entrepreneurs and craftsmen. So far, the state has taken some measures that have produced some results, but now that we have an uncertain autumn and winter ahead, it is necessary to make decisive moves and to take new measures both in the short and long term. First of all, tourism needs to be helped, primarily tourism workers, to survive until the next tourist season or Easter 2021. According to a European Commission survey, between 52 and 67,000 jobs have been at risk in Croatia. We are among the seven countries most at risk and the loss of jobs in tourism will hit the most. The government urgently needs to adopt measures to preserve jobs exclusively designed and adapted to tourism. The measures should be adopted from today until April 2021, because what entrepreneurs need at this point is certainty and information so that they can and know how to take the next steps. Secondly, it is necessary to provide all economic operators with favourable liquidity loans adjusted at this point in time. The favourable loans that had HAMAG and HBOR were spent and now need to find new funds for new credit lines. It is particularly important that the conditions are adapted to this crisis and not that the conditions of the pre-crisis period apply. From long-term measures, it would set aside a reduction in the burden and digitisation. Due to the burden and poor investment of climate, Croatia crawls at the bottom of the European rankings. The reduction of taxes and the elimination of parafiscal burdens is an absolute priority if we want to safeguard such economic activity. Reliant on outside assistance or on EU funds simply won't be enough. This crisis must become our opportunity for things to finally start to change and start removing administrative and other barriers that make investors bypass Croatia. With a stable tax system that chokes the economy, investors must have legal certainty and clear frameworks in which they operate. Strengthening the investment climate would certainly contribute to effective digitisation of public administration and business in general. It is the state that needs to ensure legal, material and technical conditions for the Croatian public administration to finally enter the 21st century. During this pandemic, we have seen how fast many segments of public service have digitized. For example, good practice should not go beyond the neighbouring Slovenia which has reduced, united, improved regulations and simplified processes in direct cooperation with entrepreneurs and thus reduced bureaucratic barriers by as much as 57%, for companies that operate and for those who are just about to start doing business and positioning themselves on the market. Finally, the government has a decisive chance of showing good will on a concrete example, to prove that it can be part of a solution and not as usual part of the problem. It's a tobacco business in Kanfanar, owned by a major multinational company's Bat. For years, the factory has been a successful business, employs more than 500 workers and has been associated with a number of cooperatives, however, due to lack of legal certainty, frequent changes in regulations and excise duties, they have simply been brought into a situation to examine the continuation of business in Croatia. So, the problem isn't business, the problem is the obstacles that the state sets and that are directly related to what I'm saying. The government must have heard about the manufacturing sector so that jobs in this little production that we have left would not be lost. In the government, it is a great responsibility to ensure the conditions that the factories in Kanfanar will allow them to continue their business in Croatia. It is up to you to decide whether you will be reformers or to bury this little production and entrepreneurship in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3822	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3837	We will now move to the debate on: - The final proposal of the Law on the restoration of buildings damaged by the earthquake in the City of Zagreb, Krapina-Zagorje County and Zagreb County, second reading, P.Z. No. 2 I would like to inform you that the speech by the clubs will be free speech at 13.00 hours as usual. This is the 2nd extraordinary session, so that's why we didn't start with free speeches, but it'll be at 1:00. Here you go, buddy Bull, you've got a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3838	Thank you very much. The Honorable Chairman. He's been injured. 249tha presentation of the position of the Club of Representatives. The first day of work of the session, a parliamentary representative of the club, may request to present the position of representatives' clubs on any topic in the time between 9.30 and 10.45. Nowhere is here separated is it an extraordinary session, whether it's a regular session but writes the first day of the week of the session. And I think this is the injured Rules of Procedure because what's the difference between not being now at 9:00 when it's usually normal or at 1:00? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3839	Thanks, buddy Bull. It's your interpretation, you have every right to it, but I think it's an extraordinary session like we did, and last time we didn't start out with the club's position, we've established ourselves, and this time we're moving with the law, so there's no bad intentions or bad will here, but since it's an extraordinary session, that the beginning of that extraordinary session, we're going to make that exception today. Please understand, at 13 o'clock you will have the opportunity to express your views. Comrade coat of arms, please, you've reached out as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3840	Thank you, Mr. President. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDP, I request a two-minute break, related to this item of the agenda, in order to further agree on certain matters related to this law. In fact, we find the proposed law unambitious. We believe that this proposed law does not adequately reflect the vision of the development of the city of Zagreb, we believe that the proposed law actually cements the existing state, only deals with how we will return Zagreb to the time it was before the earthquake, and does not consider what kind of Zagreb should be tomorrow, in 10 or 20 years. Furthermore, respected colleagues and colleagues, the social criteria provided for by this law, and we welcome the fact that they are in it today, simply not adequate, not sufficient, not fair, not solid. However, neither is this the only remark we have, and we deliberately present it before the debate so that the honourable Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia can be shown to them. There's more. For example, one of them is the problem of protected tenants. It is a particularly endangered group of citizens whose rights, whose position is not resolved by this law at all. Since we know they're already in trouble, and they're further damaged by this earthquake, it's a group of people who are literally going to be pushed onto the road. It is simply not acceptable for us as a social democratic party. Dear colleagues and colleagues, related to all that we have said, the Club of Representatives of the SDP and MPs individually, have prepared a whole series of amendments. We hope that you will consider these amendments adequately and that their acceptance on your part, of course, will ultimately depend on our vote when this law is passed. One more thing, I'd like to appeal to you, Mr. President, this is about an important topic, I know, it's about an important topic, please. You can still make another exception here and make a point on behalf of the clubs. [[Intruder: Time.]] It's 15, not 10 minutes. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3841	I'd like to thank my colleague Grbin. We'll stick to the Rules of Procedure and I'll grant you a five-minute break now because this is what this is about. The 293th break may be granted for up to 5 minutes. I'll give you five minutes off. Here you go, fellow Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3842	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Please pause for 5 minutes on behalf of the Party Club with a name and last name, Smart and GLAS. It is a law that the citizens of the city of Zagreb really look forward to. It's about a law that's extremely important. When a law is passed that is so-called. Lex specialis, then he should also give an opportunity to solve certain problems. This law was actually created in the first, when it went into the first reading, then he was the result of a disagreement between Bandic Mayor, HDZ and the Resort Ministry and I would use a little uglier word, he was actually determined and so he went to the first reading. From the first reading, regardless of what the Prime Minister said on several occasions that he would listen to the opposition, that the things the opposition highlighted would be respected in the law, we see that there is no such thing in the law. There's a series of issues. First and foremost, this law is not enforceable. In order for it to be enforceable, a programme of measures should be adopted. The programme of measures is ahead, the law provides for a programme of measures to be adopted by the government. That means past the procedure, past the democratic debate, past the possibility of citizen participation, and this morning when I went here, a man asked me, well, when I'm gonna be able to apply, which I need from the documents. I say wait, you'll have to wait a little while, because behind that goes the program, so the program will be defined, so from the looks of it, the project will be defined somewhere else. If you want to solve the problem and if the idea is to solve the problem, then the problem needs to be solved. For public purpose buildings we do not need this law, this law is really the citizens of the city of Zagreb waiting with impatience, but the message we will unfortunately have to send after today, be patient, wait. He could have been operational, there could have been things in the law that were really in a way to get rid of it right away, why didn't he want to, that's what we'll hear today through the debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3843	The apartment will also be approved for 5 minutes. A respected colleague, Selak Rasdic, also called. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3844	I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Most Club for five minutes. First, for what we want to point out and thank you as Parliament's Presidency for decimating us. Namely, I would like to remind you that parliamentary representatives have been elected by the people and selected a number of parliamentary representatives who are not currently present at this session due to alleged epidemiological measures. The other thing you've decimated us with is the fact that you've shortened the time that we can use for our speeches and for the club's sake, so you've half-shut our mouths. So the first reason we're looking for a break is to point out the problem of assembling a parliamentary debate. The second reason, of course, is that it's about the passing of this law. This law creates an atmosphere of real uncertainty which already exists, and is currently potential, potentials to be denied and skipped by existing legal regulations, such as, for example, the Law on the mitigation and elimination of the consequences of natural disasters. I would like to remind you that this law refers to seismic causes and the earthquake as the first natural disaster. He's not used. He's created another new law. I think our distinguished prime minister should first explain to us why we create new laws and explain it in a way that citizens can't rebuild their homes in a different way, which is why we created an atmosphere in which a new law must be passed. Why we deny existing legal regulations, so that we can even discuss whether we need this law. And the second question we need to point out here is also if we needed this law why we skipped the profession and went to the emergency procedure, all on behalf of the citizens, and actually because of our own profits on the threshold of local elections.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3845	A five-minute break will be granted. Here you go, fellow Sacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3846	I also join my colleagues and colleagues, it is actually incomprehensible, inadmissible for the Croatian public and our voters and voters so that we do not call ourselves decimated but share as Croatian representatives of the Croatian first order representatives and those who are in the room for the servants. Our voters and our Croatian public didn't deserve it. There is no reason for an epidemiology that is not satisfied to at least be at the gallery as we set out for this extraordinary session, this today is incomprehensible which prevents democracy and we are looking on behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3847	Thank you. A break will be granted to you for up to 5 minutes or 5 minutes. As for the mention of someone wanting to shut their mouths, I reject it, the decision of the presidency was unanimous and was based on the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament which was adopted for the reason that we were affected by the Covida-19 epidemic and we are looking for ways how the assembly can function as normally as possible. We brought this in in the last meeting, when the epidemic began looking for ways to function more normally. So, once again for the sake of the Croatian public, I would like to say that all MPs and deputies can participate in an individual debate. So here in the assembly sits 41 MPs or MPs, but the replacements come to the point that each representative can perform individually, can use replicas, can normally speak clubs. So other than time-cutting, everything else is almost identical. I ask you to accept it, we do not do it out of obstetrics or whims, but in order to protect both your health and your representatives, your families, our colleagues from the media as well as the employees of the Croatian Parliament. They're the only reasons, no other reason. And I would remind you also in the last term, we will work and now as much as possible, we were one of the few European parliaments that did not interrupt their work, there were parliaments that had completely suspended their activities for several weeks. So I ask that we be fair and objectively look at both the context and what the facts are. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3848	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I ask for a break also for 5 minutes to join the usual play in the Croatian Parliament when this time is used to sensitise the public for certain things. As far as this law is concerned, we believe that there is one key problem, which is that this law provides for one funding for which neither the Croatian government nor the City of Zagreb has enough money, and in this regard we will also invest amendments. We hope the ruling will accept them. However, I would just like to say when it comes to the City of Zagreb, that there are also a number of charges in the City of Zagreb that citizens pay from month to month, year to year for their real estate, from the monumental rent through communal fees, through real estate taxes, taxes, etc., so the City of Zagreb could partly be financed from those funds for which we don't really know where they end up after we pay them, and we pay them regularly and pay them in large amounts. I would also like to say that when it comes to the epidemiological situation, and especially to colleagues who have objected to it, I believe that the public should know that in this sense there is a part that really refers to human health and that part of the prevention of virus spread should be different from that part when it comes to the functioning of a headquarters that is compromised, which is untrustworthy and which is not consistent. However, when it comes to human health, everything that can be done to prevent this virus from spreading. In this regard, both as vice president of the assembly and as president of the Homeland Movement, I supported the proposal to monitor as much of the situation as possible in accordance with what was already adopted in the previous meeting in order to protect themselves. We finally see for ourselves that one of us is already infected with the coronary virus, so in that sense we need to do everything possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3849	The apartment will be approved. Is anyone else picking up for a break? My fellow Milosevic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3850	Thank you, Mr. President. I am looking for a five-minute break on behalf of HDZ, the HDZ Club to determine once again that, as the ruling majority, we have put this Rehabilitation Act on three key pillars. One was political inclusiveness, the other was transparency and the third was solidarity. As far as political inclusion is concerned, I think the best confirmation that the government has accepted more than 25 proposals from the opposition, which is entirely, in part, regarding this law. And I think we all agree that this law is far above the everyday policy for our citizens who are damaged by the earthquake. The second I mentioned the issue of transparency, it is very important for all of us, given that the great money of our fellow citizens will be used to rebuild from the earthquakes of Zagreb and the surrounding area and that this process will take a long time. I think this legal framework is precisely a guarantee of this transparency, and I'm sure, all those wicked prophets we listen to these days, who are already talking about corruption and crime, will be absolutely denied. I'm absolutely convinced that we're going to do this job completely, completely right. And the third and most important issue of solidarity, I think that in the first reading, we are also in the Government's proposal of 60, 20, 20, so only 20% of the participation by our fellow citizens has shown social sensitivity, which we have certainly, social sensitivity or solidarity with our citizens, and we have put in place an asset censorship for those citizens who are simply the most endangered of the social ones, who will not participate at all in the reconstruction. I will remind us all, especially those who have a solidarity problem, the Croatian state has never left anyone behind in these 30 years, since the Homeland War, the restoration, there have been many difficulties, fires all over Croatia, always and at all times the Croatian state has stood behind all its citizens and I think we are doing it quite honestly today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3851	Thank you. Comrade Tomašević, come in. You've reached out.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3852	Well, here's to the Green-Left Block Club, I'm looking for a break just as long as almost everyone's opposition, and even the ruling clubs have asked for a break to speak on behalf of, in fact, the Rehabilitation Act that we need to discuss as long as 5 minutes after this mega break. I'm not gonna abuse a break to talk about it, I'm gonna talk about it in a debate that comes after five minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3853	Comrade Vucilović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3854	Nemet, IDS Nemet.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3855	And I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3856	It's all right.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3857	Excuse me, excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3858	I'm looking for a break on behalf of the IDS Club because I think we're, like, five minutes away, because I think we've missed another chance to pass a unique law that would cover, God forbid, all the next and future accidents, and that's why it's necessary for further implementation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3859	Thank you. The apartment will be approved. Do we have any other clubs? If we don't get back to work at 10 o'clock and 5 minutes. It's 9:56 p.m. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 10.05 HOURS]] So, we move to the debate on the final proposal of the Law on the restoration of buildings damaged by the earthquake in the City of Zagreb, Krapina-Zagorje County and Zagreb County, that's the second reading, P.Z. No. 2. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia in relation to Art. 172. 190. The Rules of Procedure of HS. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs and the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction. Now, I'd like to ask the motionary's representative to give us an additional explanation. With us is the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Honored Andrej Plenkovic. Go ahead, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3861	Dear President HS, esteemed parliamentary deputies and MPs, respected ministers, ministers. It is my special honor to welcome you and present to you today on behalf of the Government the final proposal of the Law on the restoration of buildings damaged by the earthquake in the City of Zagreb, Krapina-Zagorska and Zagreb County. As we said on the occasion of presenting the draft proposal in the first reading, its goal was to edit the way and process of rebuilding the buildings damaged in the earthquake that took place on 22 March, the strongest and most destructive earthquake in the last 100 years. It regulates the construction of replacement family houses and housing of persons affected by this disaster, determines the competent authorities, operating deadlines and funding models. We do all of this to protect both the lives and the health of people, the property, the environment, cultural heritage, and create conditions for the establishment of normal life in the City of Zagreb. I believe there is a proposal before you that will help us achieve our goals. I stress that we used the summer break to carefully analyze the first reading of the parliamentary debate that was very dynamic. The competent resolutions have gone through all proposals and suggestions from the parliamentary committees, representatives' clubs and have put in place about 25 proposals or amendments in the final proposal. I believe that this second reading will also be focused on finding the best solutions and will draft proposals that, if they are in line with the concept of this law and, of course, if they contribute to improving its quality, we will gladly accept as a government. And coming to HS, I said our goal is to have as broad a political consensus as possible in this law. As we said earlier, 25000 buildings were damaged in the city of Zagreb, which is private, making public purposes. The number should also be added to 409 more in Krapina-Zagorska, 510 in Zagreb County, which is a total of 26,000 buildings. After the earthquake, more than 6200 buildings, including 7 kindergartens, 10 elementary schools, 11 secondary schools, 11 health institutions, a whole range of colleges, scientific institutes, cultural institutions and religious facilities, are unusable or temporarily useless. If we look at damaged buildings by ownership then we can see that approximately 1.5% of the buildings are public and 98.5% of the buildings are privately owned. The damage ratios were estimated at $86 billion, which is about 60% of the national budget per year. They're consistent with a large number of damaged buildings, beyond anything we've ever faced. After the earthquake, the government and the service reacted actively, we defined three directions of action. First, prepare emergency and short-term measures to take care of the most vulnerable among our fellow citizens. Secondly, it began to produce a list of damages and documentation for the international financial assistance we will need for the reconstruction of Zagreb. And thirdly, we have prepared a legal framework for the long-standing reconstruction of the city. After the earthquake, one of the priorities was to take care of our fellow citizens in the Student House in Flower Village, all those who were forced to leave their homes. Around 800 citizens of Zagreb have been taken care of through that home so far. Most of them were at one point in May as much as 652, and currently there are 262 fellow citizens. For their accommodation and diet so far, we have singled out more than 13 million kunas, the government. During last week, last week's session, the government commissioned the Ministry of Spatial Planning and Construction and State Property to find adequate accommodation for persons temporarily located in the Student House Flower Village in cooperation with the city. The Ministry of Civil Protection and the Directorate of Civil Protection are tasked with bringing orders to demobilize remaining mobilised pavilions in a dormitory to normalise the work of a student home, a warrant for the mobilization of a second facility owned by the City of Zagreb or a country suitable for temporary housing. Among the first steps were the insurance of damaged buildings to those who could not live on a one-time aid of €12.000,00, for the restoration of the roof, chimneys, dental walls, elevators, we provided 100 million kuna. In addition to this, for the purchase of condensation boilers projected 8000,00 kn, secured 41 million kuna through the Environmental Protection Fund, this covered the needs of more than 5000 apartments. So far, 3678 applications have been received, signed 2520 contracts. This speaks of the effectiveness of the action because something in more than a month the number of applications has increased by 500, and the number of contracts signed by 1500 in total for these first and emergency measures has been secured by 141 million kuna. There are many more unused funds, and I urge all citizens to submit these requests and make use of these funds provided in the budget. We also offered a longer-term solution and better housing conditions through the financing of a rent for a replacement apartment for all persons whose properties died in the earthquake, for which funding was secured by September 2021. To date, 464 applications have been received to finance the rent of replacement apartments, 155 rental contracts have been concluded, and nearly 1.2 million kunas have been paid for the rent. In parallel with all these activities, we focused our efforts on ensuring the necessary financial resources for the reconstruction of Zagreb and its surroundings. Just a few days after the earthquake, together with the World Bank, with a certified international methodology, a document called the so-called "World Bank" was created. A quick assessment of the damage caused, so the document estimated at around 25,000 buildings and houses at 86 billion kuna. On the basis of this document, we have secured a fast $200 million loan from the World Bank, which will be used to rebuild educational and health institutions. It has been used as a basis for reporting damage to the European Solidarity Fund from which we can expect about 500m euros. You know for a fact that we have already received around a decade ago an advance from the European Commission of 88.9m euros. This, according to the Commission itself, is the largest advance ever paid from the European Solidarity Fund since 2002. The third objective was to work on this legislative proposal, which lays down the principles and rules for the long-standing organised reconstruction of Zagreb and the surrounding counties. With any new information or knowledge, we understand how complex this is and how far-reaching the consequences for the whole city would be if we failed to pass the law as high as possible. Therefore, there is no emergency procedure here, there are public debates, there are two parliamentary readings, there is a consultation of all who should have given their suggestions in this process builders, architects, urbanists, engineers and experts in energy transformation, art historians, conservatives, business associations, chambers, lawyers, interested public. I am convinced that this final proposal for a law will be a quality foundation that will trigger and ensure the restoration and meet the expectations of citizens who have suffered damage in the earthquake, as well as all citizens of Zagreb. This showed a debate during the first reading where a consensus was reached by a large number of your parliamentary deputies. I believe that after the debate and after we thoroughly analyse the proposed amendments when the time for voting on it comes, we will achieve the greatest consensus. This final draft of the law merits several additional clarifications. It primarily refers to the reconstruction of buildings that are unusable and temporarily unusable, it is predicted that construction reconstruction of buildings is financed from the state budget, the budget of the City of Zagreb, the county, cities and municipalities, by means of the owners or co-owners of buildings and by means of other sources. Co-financing of the construction of the reconstruction of private buildings, I remind you, is foreseen by 60% of the states, 20% of the local self-government unit and 20% of the owners and co-owners. News in relation to first reading, which is a problem that the vast majority of you have highlighted in the debate, the introduction of social criteria, i.e. income and property censorship. Namely, the citizens of Zagreb and two neighbouring counties whose houses and apartments died in the earthquake and receive minimum wage and do not have more significant property of state, county, city or municipality will fully finance the construction of real estate reconstruction. The amount of 20% co-financing will be granted to real estate owners if their income, including the income of a spouse or non-marriage partner, does not exceed the amount of non-taxable income for 2020 in the past and year. This is brought on those whose total assets were worth less than 200,000 kuna. The construction reconstruction and disability of the Homeland War and social care users receiving maintenance assistance will also be fully financed. I think this way is more appropriate to solve this problem, and we're open to even more suggestions because there are certainly other groups that could be worth this treatment. Through discussions on parliamentary committees, we have noticed a large number of MPs' initiative to allow this right for all persons with disabilities, and I have been informed of this by MP Lukačić personally, and we will be willing to take into consideration these initiatives as well. The newest in the law is the provision that for the second and the next real estate the owner participates in a construction reconstruction with 50% of the funds and the distribution of costs is 40% of the state, 10% of the local self-government, and 50% of the owner or co-owner. The reconstruction of public purpose buildings, therefore, is funded by those 1.5% of damaged buildings by the full owners or founders of public institutions. The reconstruction will be carried out in accordance with measures programmes, defined content brought by the Government on a proposal from the Ministry of Spatial Planning, Construction and State Property. The first programme of measures is in the final phase and we plan to adopt it before the deadline of 30 days from the entry into force of this law. We will also set up the Reconstruction Fund and the Expert Council for Reconstruction before 30 days from the entry into force of the law. The founders are reminded of the City of Zagreb, Krapina-Zagorska and Zagreb County and of course the state. Around the Fund for Reconstruction, it seems to me that there were some misunderstandings too, so let's try to clear them up. The Reconstruction Fund shall be established by means of a contract defined by the Law on Institutions. When the institution is established by the Republic of Croatia and the units of local or regional self-government. The role of the fund is not only a financial fund, it is also a unique institution that will operate on reconstruction activities. We will pay very close attention to the transparent spending of funds and, with the help of information technologies, all data on spent funds will be made publicly available to everyone. Furthermore, the law provides for rebuilding buildings, removing damaged buildings, building replacement family houses and financial assistance. It is important to point out that not individual private apartments, i.e. interiors, are being renovated, but exclusively construction reconstruction of buildings. Full renewal is generally renewed by health and education institutions. Other buildings for public purposes and individual, protected cultural goods. The reinforcement of the structure is done to increase seismic resistance. The owner, i.e. co-owners of the building, may, in the process of making a decision to rebuild, request the design and implementation of building improvements, i.e. complete renovation of the building. Therefore, it is necessary for owners to undertake the difference in costs resulting from this and to provide adequate insurance for the fulfilment of that obligation. Priorities and deadlines of restoration depend on damage to individual buildings and their importance for the wider community and protection as cultural goods. They also depend on the priorities of the city transport organisation and the capacity of the construction sector. The law provides for the removal of buildings that have lost mechanical resistance and stability in order to collapse or that their restoration is not possible. That requires all co-owners' consent. If there is no consent of all tenants, the removal shall be carried out in accordance with the rules governing the inspection supervision of the construction. It is important to point out that compared to the first estimates, a small part of the building will need to be destroyed, which is somewhat encouraging. The law also provides for the construction of replacement family houses. When an existing family house is destroyed, such a replacement house is built on the scale of a removed house, except in the case of a slide, when built in a new location. Most of the replacement family house is 55 meters square for one or two persons, 70 for three or four and 85 for five or more persons. Owners or co-owners shall participate in reconstruction costs in the same proportion as in buildings. The law also provides for financial assistance and support that can be paid instead of renewal. In this way, we want to encourage those citizens who can start rebuilding themselves to do so, and according to the criteria, they will be able to achieve financial assistance. The law stipulates that recovery decisions are made by the Ministry of Spatial Planning, Construction and State Property, and all other actions are in the area of the Reconstruction Fund. The procedure shall be initiated by building managers or representatives of co-owners or owners. Artists are selected on the basis of a public call. The programme of measures determines the most cost of works and construction products that can be accepted in the selection of performers. The final draft law also added the following amendments. The State will provide construction reconstruction funds in the event that the owners or co-owners do not do so, but then the State registers a claim on the property. The amendment is that the publishing right is also entered on a specific part of the property. The possibility of obtaining financial assistance for the repair of the staircase, owners or co-owners of the funds for construction reconstruction and the construction of replacement family houses, is included, shall be paid at the account of the Reconstruction Fund. The possibility of rebuilding buildings that have been illegally reconstructed, i.e. the removed building elements, i.e. unlawful changes affecting the building's mechanical resistance and stability, is therefore the condition that the owner, i.e. the co-owner, agree to return the building to a state before an unlawful reconstruction affecting mechanical resistance and stability, and only after the insurance of the settlement of all the costs involved. If the owner, or co-owners of the building, does not submit a request for a renewal decision or does not agree with the majority of co-owners or owner of unknown or unknown residences, the building shall be subject to the regulations governing the inspection supervision of the building. It is also a commitment to the ministry, the City of Zagreb and the county to provide properties for the temporary storage of construction waste caused by the earthquake. It is provided for the adoption of a regulation that will help to regulate the content and technical elements of the project of rebuilding the building, the project for the renovation of the building as a whole and the project for the removal of buildings and the project for the construction of the replacement family house, the provision under which the first programme of measures will be introduced, the first programme of measures shall include conservation guidelines for buildings which are not individually protected culturally well-being, as well as those buildings that are not completely renovated. Honorable MPs and MPs. In front of all of us, so all the actors, both the Government and the City of Zagreb and these two counties, of course both owners and co-owners, is a great responsibility to ensure the process of reconstruction that will firstly, those who do not have, secure a roof over their heads, secure and warm home and make Zagreb a place for a pleasant life and work again. Although this is not the primary purpose of this law, the reconstruction itself can be an opportunity to solve a number of unresolved infrastructure problems and to open a debate on the urban development of the city of Zagreb. The articles of the law clearly state who is in charge and how such a new development moment can trigger such an accident. I believe that today we will take advantage of this opportunity to ensure that our fellow citizens have a law that will indeed be quality and that the procedures that are set up by it are transparent, that the principles and provisions that are in it are both just and enforceable for the benefit of all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3862	I thank the Prime Minister. We'll cross now to replicas, and you can stay here, Prime Minister. There's only one thing we need to clear up. So, from two clubs, there were more MPs or MPs than there was the possibility of replication. I would remind only of Article 293a, so he says, the right to replica after the debate has every club representative or representatives referred to in paragraph 5 of this article, that is, as regards independent representatives, so that each club representative has the right to discuss in accordance with the number of seats in the assembly. So the club can have three replicas, and it can have two, or it's a green-left block, so one of you has to give up, and also for the Party's Club of Representatives with a name and last name, Smartly and GLAS just reported to you 2, and you can only discuss one. So I'm asking you to make a deal here. Here you go, fellow Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3863	We believe that this interpretation of the Rules of Procedure is absolutely unacceptable since all elected representatives have seats in the assembly which are currently in place because of a common agreement that we respect epidemiological measures do not use at a certain time, so we all have the right to change and we all still have our place in the Assembly. That at some point I can't sit in my seat You can't interpret it because of the arrangement in a way that limits us. [[Intruder: My colleagues Bencic,]] our right. [[Intruder: Time, your time is up.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3864	Please sit down and do not interpret the Rules of Procedure, because the Rules of Procedure are very clear. The right to a replica after the debate has every club representative according to the number of seats in the assembly. So you have 2 seats in the assembly and you have the right to 2 replicas. And it's as clear as tears. So please don't do that. They can discuss each other individually, but in rotations you always have the opportunity to have 2 MPs or MPs who can speak individually, but replicas can be 2. It's something we agreed on last time and that's it. Let's go now, so just please who will speak on behalf of the Party Representatives Club with a name, Smart and Voice? My colleague, Mr. Taritas, are you or colleagues of Oreshkovic?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3865	She's a colleague of Oreshkovic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3866	A colleague of Oreshkovic's, okay. On the left, green-left block, who's giving up? You'll call, okay. Then we start with the replicas, first in line is respected colleague Selak Rasdic. Here you go, here you go, but it just wasn't, there's a microphone left on there.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3867	So, first of all, I would just remind my colleague Bencic that we were just looking for a break because of this 10-hitting, at which colleague Tomaševic from her club smiled at us and told us to take advantage of the breaks for some inappropriate needs. And now I'd like to ask a question to the distinguished prime minister. So, I think that the Croatian public primarily deserves to know what this whole play is about where we all agreed to participate so that we don't leave citizens on the wind, I mean playing with a law that wasn't necessary because there is already a legislative framework. So, on the one hand, we had a tycoon left that decided to base its program on buying the law and getting an apartment and we had you as a panic populist who didn't show enough integrity to say there was a legislative framework. I'm sorry, I was interrupted for [[Intruder: Thank you, time is up.]] So why are you acting like a legislator, that's my question. [[Intruder: No, you didn't get caught up in that time, so time's up.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3868	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3869	Thank you, beautiful representative Selak Rapudic, nor do I see logic, nor does it make sense in your intervention or your question. You're basically sleeping over an earthquake period to this day. I heard you in those original comments on the eve of the break, that this was some kind of emergency procedure. Just the other way around. We had a public debate, we had everyone involved, we had our first reading, and now we have another reading. You may be new to the Croatian Parliament, but this sort of elemental thing you probably saw. The law to which you refer, which refers to general natural disasters, is simply insufficient for the proportions of such damages. So the data I gave you today that are generally familiar, if you've had the biggest earthquake in the last 100 years, 86 billion estimated damages with that law you couldn't solve anything. That's why we have to go to a special law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3870	Thank you. Here's a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3871	Infringement of Rules of Procedure Article 238, the prime minister degrades the parliamentary representative because it tells her that she has slept through the whole debate. So, I was quite present. What happens in the middle of summer and what happens after summer is in the eyes of our citizens an emergency procedure, and if you think that the existing legislative framework is not enough then you should either fix it or consider it necessary to throw it in the trash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3872	My colleague Selak Rapudic, I won't give you a warning because I still think you're a new representative, this was a clear violation of the Rules of Procedure because you replicated and did not speak about the breach of the Rules of Procedure, the prime minister did not hurt the Rules of Procedure. So I'm asking you not to abuse the institution's breach of the Rules of Procedure. Let's go to another replica, dear fellow Bull, come on in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3873	Thank you very much. We all know the Prime Minister was a terrible earthquake. For the people who have experienced this, solidarity should be given. You gave a legal framework, some experts say that within the existing legal framework it could have already started working and rebuilding. However, I would have you all here together, and I would have pointed out to the Prime Minister in particular that Zagreb is not the only problem. We have a problem without an earthquake that was scary. We have two-thirds of Croatia empty, we have many empty objects. In my Dalmatian mountain alone, we have 100,000 people less than the county was founded 15 years ago. I would only say, in the end, that the projects promised to my Dalmatia and Dalmatia burn to be fulfilled is not only Zagreb in this problem elemental. I think two-thirds of Croatia is in an even bigger problem, demographic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3874	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3875	Thank you very much. Representative Bulj, when there's a topic on the agenda, it's good to talk about it and keep it informed, content and useful. You are much less delicate than your colleague new to the club and you will understand that it would be a waste of my time and time for all of us here to answer you now about other topics that have absolutely nothing to do with this law. And we will try to take advantage of today's debate for the best possible addition of the law or the second draft that is before you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3876	Let's go to the third line, dear colleague Highash Doncic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3877	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Prime Minister. So in this law I see one danger, and this danger is, in fact, only a structural reconstruction, let's call a uniform renewal that does not respect postulates of energy restoration. And what can happen here? So, the earthquake happened, big funds will be spent both from the state and from cities and counties, i.e. The city and county and the citizens, and the reconstruction will not actually be according to some postulates that Croatia will be obliged to be respected soon, which is decarbonisation and that is the European Green Plan. And what can happen? It can happen that in a few years, in fact, 25,000 buildings that need to be renovated by any owner, whether the state has no financial capacity anymore, that it participates in the reconstruction in which Croatia will be required to participate. So why are we just looking at it in a uniform way, and why are we just going to a construction reconstruction now?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3878	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3879	We're going to a construction reconstruction because we're taking care of safety. What if God didn't give us an earthquake a little stronger than the one he was? You want to hear the script? You'd better not hear it. So we need to help the owners of construction reconstruction buildings in these circumstances because the role of the state as has been shown in this crisis, as well as in other crises to do so is beyond the possibility of a private owner at the moment. As far as energy recovery is concerned, there are other programmes, there are other tenders, there is ultimately the responsibility of the owners themselves to take care of it. I know very well what the European Green Plan is and how important this topic is, and you will see for yourself in implementing the entire economic recovery programme how much we will put emphasis on energy efficiency and on this segment of future life, so I am taking your suggestion into account.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3880	Thank you. My fellow coat of arms, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3881	Thank you, Mr. President. And of course I welcome your initiative to make such an important law by consensus, it is our obligation to all of us who are elected here. In that light, I'm going to suggest something that I see as a problem of this law, and that's professional advice for restoration. It will be a key body in the adoption of a programme of measures, and the programme of measures is a key document for the implementation of reconstruction. That is why I think it would be good for the expert council to be elected in the Assembly and I call on you to accept this proposal because that is how we will also provide a debate, and ultimately I hope a consensus in the selection of such an important institution. However, I would also like to invite you to consider the fact that the Council provides for representatives of the HUP and the HGK, and they are not HOC and trade unions, and should also appreciate this in order to get a broad and transparent body that will indeed be able to help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3882	Thank you, comrade Grbin. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3883	Thank you very much. Agent Grbin, give me the amendments and we'll consider it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3884	Thank you. Comrade Cellic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3885	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor, Prime Minister. Art. 5. The funding of law enforcement has been overlooked, you also mentioned the introduction of a network application which will be monitored for the transparency of financial management, which is done by the RES and the Reconstruction Fund. I would also briefly refer to the expert advice for restoration, so art. Article 13 I don't think there's any reason to change who's starting who's making members name it Government. However, there are representatives of 18 members, given that this is a very important body, and is not in any way subject to the regular obligation of democratic supervision, I think it would be good that, through regular annual reports, HS is given this as well to accept it through the annual reports, the work of the expert council for renewal.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3886	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3887	Okay, well, I can see that he's been on the trail and these suggestions from before, we'll consider it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3888	Let's move on, colleague Tomašević, now it's your turn. Can you just tell us who's gonna give up on your representatives?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3889	My colleague Bencic, but I would also like to ask for a session when you've already asked me a session of the presidency beyond because there are several clubs, and not only our club realized that the agreement was that we could... /The speaker turned off./...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3890	Please stop the time itself. My colleague Tomašević, so you couldn't figure it out because I didn't say it for sure, the Rules of Procedure here is more than clear. We talked about individual debates and I ask you to look from a wider angle, not only smaller parties but also large ones, if everyone could replicate then it would mean the circulation of 150 people here in the Parliament in a very short time, and then it wouldn't make any sense what we're doing. So that's why. That's what we had in the last session, and that's how we handled it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3891	But this means that 100 parliamentary deputies cannot participate in the debate. Is that better?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3892	He can participate. You will later express your opinion when there will be individual debates, there will be 30 individual debates, and each will be able to replicate three times as many times as you normally can on each wheel.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3893	So there are no replicas more than two or no replicas or other representatives?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3894	No, and otherwise, there's no more than two. So you have 2 seats in the assembly and so much for a certain speaker times you can replicate. But since he has you 8 and everyone can replicate 3 times, it's 24 replicas your club can give during the debate on any wheel. Arrange to catch it throughout the debate. Please proceed now.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3895	Because mine, my replicator is tied to the fund. You mentioned the fund, the body that will operate the renovation, I don't see it, nor does our club see that it will indeed be so. We really don't understand why hot water is invented. So, the Dubrovnik Rehabilitation Institute, as you know, has existed since '79, recently turned 40. its existence, it acts under new laws, under a new framework. It is also founded by state and city and county of Dubrovnik-Neretvanska in that case. Under this bill, the fund has almost no authority, so it doesn't even make a decision on co-financing, and it's called the fund. He doesn't even make a co-financing decision based on the ministry's decision to rebuild. So no power There's no day in this Fund Act, and we really don't get it. [[Intruder: Thank you]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Wait, so I've got more, why. [[/Invader: Thank you, colleague Tomašević.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3896	Well, you don't. Your time's already up for nine seconds. So, you've used the minute and you're moving on, and now you're still convincing me that your time isn't up, so please sit down. Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3897	Okay, thank you very much, Agent Tomašević, for this suggestion, for the obviously thorough information on the 40th annual work of the Dubrovnik Reconstruction Institute after the '79 earthquake. So, this debate is called a fund or is called a institute, I don't think it's so dramatic, it's called a fund, it's important what the fund is going to do, the fund has to have close cooperation with the competent ministry, which will ultimately until the fund is established and carry out these activities that have been allocated to the fund by law. Therefore, it is our opinion that on the concept that we have imagined for the fund, which, as I said by contract, will be founded by the state, the City of Zagreb and the two counties, we will have the involvement of all, faster decision-making, focused work of an institution only on this subject, and of course the ministry and the state that ultimately finances most of the reconstruction must have a way to say something about it, which I will say through the ministry and the government. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3898	Here you go, pal Brumnic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3899	Dear Prime Minister, how ambitiously you have approached this law actually shows your exposure where you spent more than half of your exposure on what you did independently of this law, and how high-quality you can pass a law that you haven't practically made any analysis. Yesterday, we witnessed on the Committee on Spatial Editing that your proposings were dealing with completely different numbers collected from the same source. And then the question arises if you have poor input data, how can you make good laws or make good decisions for the benefit of the citizens of the City of Zagreb? Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3900	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3901	Thank you very much, Your Honor. All data on the basis of which the preparation of the law has been carried out, activities between the first and second readings have been carried out on the basis of the verified and the only available data we have. On the basis of these, the damage was ultimately assessed, on the basis of which a request was submitted for the European Solidarity Fund, on which basis I gave you this information that you have here today. Other data from those that we can get from the Faculty of Civil Engineering and the Croatian Center for Earthquake Engineering that have a database and that have conducted these preliminary checks are essentially not available. So, I don't know about these misunderstandings on the boards, all I've told you today is that filtered number of knowledge and information and data that are available and all we can base these estimates on, the others are gone, you don't have them either, and I'm even more sure about that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3902	Now it's time for my colleague Bencic, so it's a correction and she'll speak for the club, and colleague Peovic won't, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3903	Dear Prime Minister, we in our first reading stressed the importance that anti-corruption measures be integrated into the bill to ensure the basic public's trust that funds intended for reconstruction will be spent on purpose. One part of our proposal, which is to publish public procurement data, has been accepted. However, the demand to be published in real time is not accepted as technology exists. And the second part is very important, and which is not accepted is our proposal to establish an independent body to monitor the implementation of reconstructions that will also be able to give representations to citizens, but also which will be responsible for reporting to the public every 3 months on the implementation of renovations and problems, especially the corrupt risks in the reconstruction. Since we are a country with the lowest confidence in institutions and also with a high, high perception of corruption, we believe it is crucial to integrate these into the law. Anti-corruption measures. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3904	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3905	So as for the part of your suggestions, I believe that you are pleased that we included them, as far as others are concerned, give amendments, and we will see what is appropriate, normal and conceptually acceptable to be included in the law. What I said, so we strive that this whole activity, given that this is a lot of resources, requires time, that it requires engagement, work, procurement, performers, costs, that all of this is transparent, and as far as we're concerned, I don't have any, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. So this is the accident that hit us all, and that's what we're going to do together and work on. And as for a large number of new independent bodies, we'll see about that.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3906	Thank you. Before I give you a breach of the Rules of Procedure, there are currently three of you, and you may be two and a colleague of Matula the fourth here, so you are violating the Rules of Procedure of HS unlike other parties that do not, so I ask you to stick to the rules that we have agreed together as well. Here's the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3907	May I?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3908	Here you go, it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3909	So, breach of Rules of Procedure. In 235, according to which each representative and representative are entitled to a replica, I have just lost my right to a replica. Each member of the Rules of Procedure has the right to reply, by committee, by your choice means that only some representatives from a particular club have the right to contact you in fact put this assembly on hold and refused the possibility for each representative and representative to set one... [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3910	I would like to ask you to contact the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system to give you They're doing an explanation. [[I'm announcing that I will.]] There is an epidemic in Croatia as well as in the whole world, and for this reason we apply the provision of Article 293a. So it's not my whim to do this but it's been prescribed by the Rules of Procedure who brought the Croatian Parliament if you feel that it does not comply with the laws [[We'll be looking for...]] Let's move on, now it's time for counterpart Nikolic, come on in. [[Intruder: We will ask for a constitutionality assessment.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3911	Thank you, Mr. President. The President-in-Office of the Government, pursuant to Article 15(2), (4) and (5) and Article 27(2), (4) and (5) of the deadline for the submission of applications for illegally built buildings under the Law on the treatment of illegally built buildings was 30 June 2018. The Agency for the Legislation of illegally built buildings which served as an aid in the resolution of these requirements to the Ministry of Construction ceased its work on 1 July 2019. My question is, how is it possible that there are still requirements that have not been processed and completed and that individual users will subsequently submit requests to legalise the facilities that would then be covered by the renovation? It may need to cover all buildings where on the day of the earthquake, activity or housing was carried out, in order for them to be legal, whether they are legal or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3912	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3913	Thank you very much, very much. The framework envisaged for these buildings under the legal process is designed to submit requests, if there are any problems here I will verify it until the vote whether we should possibly extend the deadlines a little bit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3914	Now it's Agent Nadj's turn, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3915	Thank you very much. Dear Prime Minister, you said that this final bill has been analysed in all the resolute ministries, but I believe it is not true because, for example, Article 6 states the disabled Homeland War, in a small letter, that it has passed through the Croatian Ministry of Defence, then they would surely object to what is contrary to the Law on Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families being used by the term of the Croatian Military Disabilities of Homeland War. So, my country's big letter. If the HDZ were not in power, there would already be three tents in front of the Croatian Defence Ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3916	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3917	Okay, thank you. We'll fix this. Say it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3918	My fellow Milosevic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3919	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Prime Minister, I think that since the first reading, a proper step forward and further in terms of social sensitivity, but also what we discussed, is that if not completely removed, it significantly reduces the possibility of speculation or of buying property damaged in an earthquake precisely from those most socially endangered. I think it's a good step and the fact that, that the proposer wrote so that only for the first real estate people participate with 20%, then the second one, still the third one under the 50% Rehabilitation Act, but in that case it might be a good time to sell real estate, and without returning the money to the state budget, it's not the same for those who have 20% and other properties when it comes to 50% of the participation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3920	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3921	I thank Representative Milosevic, and we will consider that idea, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3922	Comrade Oreshkovic, here you go. Turn yourself in, please, just.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3923	I'm on it, thank you. Prime Minister, this law is all a big lie. Its damaged citizens will not get what they hope for. The law itself does not prescribe any programme of measures and refurbishment activities, on the contrary, it is said that everything that is necessary for the renewal to begin at all will be prescribed later on in walking, in government, more specifically in rooms, hallways and cabinets of your government. It is still remembered that the plan was to resuscitate Agrokor in those same halls and rooms. Do you plan to join and rebuild the City of Zagreb in the same way? The citizens will not benefit from this, but I have no doubt that it will benefit the government's intuitions, and very likely Milan Bandic. To understand the difference between the non-transparent and the over-expensive patching of the collapsed city and the urban total renewal We will deliver a document supported by the profession. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] It contains a vision which your law simply doesn't have. [[Agreement: Thank you colleagues Oreshković.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3924	Comrade Oreshkovic, thank you very much, please stick to the time. Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3925	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I hope you read the law. I hope as a lawyer you know what representative bodies usually do, and what they do, what the executive authority does. That and the basic alphabet, so I believe that you will think about it a little bit and imagine what it would be like for us to best give all of this to be implemented by the Croatian Parliament. Are we gonna do this? How long do you think this restoration will take? 200, 300, 500 years, how much? So, I ask you to use this demagogue of yours a little bit to cut still to some more realistic frame of expression, it will be useful for you, for your credibility, for one sense of reality. With all that you've been saying about this kind of law that's been coming out this far where the state takes so much on its back is really rude to qualify as a lie. That's not good for you. You won't achieve anything with that. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3926	Here is the breach of the Rules of Procedure, which consists of colleagues Oreshkovic?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3927	I need you to quote a provision that I find inappropriate that the Prime Minister refers to a representative with such qualifications accusing me of being rude. Answer one question to me and the entire Croatian public, how long will it take to rebuild the City of Zagreb?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3928	My colleague Oreshkovic like this, so you said the law was a lie, so you said someone was lying on the other side. I didn't give you a warning, did I? So then you got the answer, and I also didn't give a warning because I thought it was a debate. She may be uncomfortable, but it's a debate. Please sit down, now you're getting a warning. [[Intruder: It's a big difference to say that one document...]] Please sit down. [[Intruder: I go to a personal level.]] Here you are, colleague Oreshkovic, and don't come in without getting your word. [[Intruder: And say that the person is rude.]] Please. Stick to the rules, you're the one who's been calling the rules all the time, and you're trying to figure out how to stick to the rules, so I'm asking you to stick to the rules, too. Comrade Martincevic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3929	Mr. President-in-Office of the Government, in Art. 6th century 1 is about the exemption from payment for certain categories of citizens and after that you state, as has already been pointed out today, the disabled of the Homeland War. I'd like to say that we don't share people with disabilities in the Homeland War, disabled work and other disabled persons, but to ensure that this law provides equal rights and equal treatment for all persons with disabilities, you said something about it in your debate, I can see that there were suggestions on the other hand. We, as the People's Party of Reformists, will also refer the amendment to this, so I ask the Government to accept it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3930	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3931	Thank you, well-respected representative Martincevic, to refer to this earlier initiative, we are open to suggestions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3932	Let's go. Let's go. Let's go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3933	Your Honor, Prime Minister, I will only point out one problem that I see through the implementation of this law, which is a problem of off-book ownership. So we're talking about apartments that were bought with tenant rights. They couldn't sign up for some reason in land books. Perhaps they are currently in the process of renovating or connecting land books, and one way of ensuring, the only way of ensuring is, of course, registering the right to such properties. Does this mean that owners of such properties cannot access the restoration of their property under this law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3934	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3935	Thank you. Before the final vote, we will once again go through all these legal issues in detail and with the professors of law school, since in my view, the legal aspect of all these stories is far the most complex, sensitive, I know about the subject, and I have already asked for consultations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3936	Now it's time for my colleague Lukacic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3937	I thank the Honorable Prime Minister. Here, in your presentation you mentioned people with disabilities, I now have to mention it again, these days many have said that you forgot about them, how you didn't think, but here, I thank you for just thinking that people with disabilities must have equal rights because it's already agreed,... in the first reading that persons with disabilities are participating this law in the same way as Croatian military disableds, so here I thank you for accepting this proposal. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3938	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3939	Thank you very much, Mr. Lukačić. I appreciate your initiative, and I'm sure we'll accept it at the government, too, and I believe it will be supported here in the Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3940	Now it's my fellow Bartulica's turn, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3941	I thank Mr. Prime Minister. I'm glad you've pointed out the importance of transparent implementation of this law so many times. We have some doubts about this in view of countless examples in Croatia of how public money is spent. However, my question concerns the establishment of this new fund. So, for the sake of transparency, for future implications of state finances, public finances, I think it was important to indicate what these would be sources of funding for that fund, which would be the conditions of future borrowing, given that we are in the year where we have a 15% GDP decline in the second quarter. So, for the sake of transparency in this final proposal, I think it's very important that we all know how you plan to finance this fund. Here it is mentioned that it will be entered in the court register, these are essentially non-essential information. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3942	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3943	Thank you very much, Your Honor. As for the funding, so I'll repeat everything we've done so far. So part of this will go from the state budget, part from the budget of the unit of local and regional self-government, part of the owners, part of the co-owners, international funding, the EU Solidarity Fund. As you know, this advance is the biggest ever paid,... 8.9m euros, that money has already come to accounts at the finance ministry. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We will, of course, engage further, for example, towards the Council of Europe Development Bank, which is one of those financial institutions that can make programmes just for the financing of private buildings. So, a great distance between what is public, health and education. Here we'll go to special arrangements, over the years to follow it all together,... That's where we're going to hire, and that's what the finance minister can explain later, the programs that HBOR can do, so that we can [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Helping our fellow citizens. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] There'll be plenty of funding runways.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3944	And the last line, colleague Petyr, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3945	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Prime Minister, it has proved to be good that the law has not been passed hastily because it has actually been given some time for dialogue, a development time in which interests and owners themselves can be protected, on the one hand, but also to ensure the implementation of the objectives of this law, i.e. The reconstruction on the other side. It is also important that you have included in the law clauses that will protect these investments of the state, or public money, so that it does not happen to restore an apartment or house, then sell it without any penals. What I'd like to draw attention to is an art. 6th century 2 because you have quite rightly accepted the motions of MPs to introduce social criteria, which I welcome. But in that article. 6th century 2 is not quite clear which would be the corresponding amount that the owners would have to repay if they were to sell within less than 5 years the real estate that was restored in a 100% amount with public money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3946	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3947	Thank you. Thank you for this suggestion. I'm going to suggest a minister who's active tomorrow because he's negative, so he's going to figure it out in detail, and I'm going to explain to you what that amount is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3948	I thank the Prime Minister. We don't have a replica anymore, so let's move on. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? If not, I'm opening a debate. We're going to a club debate. The first is the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists Bridge, respected colleague Marija Selak Rasdic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3949	Dear President of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. First, I will look again at the current situation and appeal for parliamentary representatives to return to the constituency benches even if they are divided on different levels. To be rough, it's better to knock down the assembly than to have parliamentary deputies disappear. Find a way for all of us here to participate here in the debate, that's what I tried to warn you about at the beginning, so my colleague Tomašević warned me that we are taking advantage of the possibility of a break, and now they are rebelling. In this we must be unique, this is our duty, this is our task, we need to speak and do as much as possible, and not as little as you are telling us right now because citizens are not satisfied, they are paying us very well for our work. And now I'm going to say something about the very law of renewal that we're currently discussing. First, we need to detect the situation, which is this game that we're taking part in and in which we agreed to participate. What I'm going to say first is that we here will be constructive, regardless of what we disagree with the situation we're currently adopting a new law, we will submit a large number of amendments, and we will try to make this proposal as good as possible, primarily because our citizens now expect it, which is a framework in which nothing will move before the law itself is passed, and therefore it would be too populist to just reject this law, rather than participate in its change. This state-of-the-art detection which is also an answer to the question of our citizens who are with their rights, and at present the fates of the games deserve a little more detailed consideration. What's the real problem? In fact, we had an election call in the middle of the pandemic before summer, and then the situation in which certain parties were created and the tycoon left remembered that their pre-election program should have been such that, I'm giving you a bill and you've got an apartment that created or created conditions for a climate where nothing is possible without this law, as if we hadn't had laws so far, and then we had our centrifugal party that was panicically populist, instead of showing minimal integrity and calling for existing legal regulations and urgent access to the design of a program that was left behind, and then, in law, skipped to ensure that our citizens were restored, accepted this same game and set off in the making of this law, I will once again, by the urgent procedure in the eyes of our citizens in the middle of summer, so as soon as the summer ended. So when we talk about an existing legislative framework, we focus primarily on the Law on easing and removing the consequences of natural disasters where seismic causes are, and the earthquake is the first of them. Why is it important to remind of this framework? Because our fundamental problem in the eyes of all our citizens is the economy, so some kind of uncertainty, dissatisfaction, the inability of our citizens' normal lives. And where did this bad economic situation come from? It stems from legal uncertainty, and legal uncertainty occurs precisely because of this accumulation of legislation, denial of existing legal frameworks where we have parallel systems. I will warn of what the profession has already warned that we currently have a parallel system in this law to design a project for reconstruction instead of a major project as has been the case so far. All of this creates an atmosphere of legal uncertainty which is the atmosphere that prevents investment in our country, and the consequence is that we do not live as well as we should. Another thing I want to remind you of is what I call an emergency procedure that has been ignored, it's a profession. So, to hear what the waist thought yesterday, we had a round table that we organised on our own. This round table was far-reaching and I would like to thank the gathered experts, architects, urbanists, statisticians, lawyers, economists who made their contribution, and here I would like to remind myself of what the role of the parliamentary representative is, at least for those of us who have not yet fallen into those chairs. The role of a parliamentary representative is not to be a conscious narrator, the role of a parliamentary representative is to be the voice of the profession at times when it cannot represent itself. So, I'm not going to try to be smart here because this isn't my profession, but I'm going to try to say something based on what I've heard from the profession, and this law is missing. So, the first thing I can say, in principle as a parliamentary representative, is that the policy in which all key regulations leave the programme of measures, and over which there is no supervision, is not good. It is primarily not good because of a public procurement system which is still an art. The 42nd rule of law, but I will remind you that this system of public procurement is the most lacking in the construction sector where all reports of corruption in our country warn of this very fact. If we don't have a quality surveillance system that isn't prescribed here, and there's a regulation of public procurement measures just the programme of measures we'll testify to another acquisition of the brush of several hundred kunas instead of some quality and transparent renewal. What is the basic problem of this law is that it does not prescribe enough or precise measures and how the renewal will be implemented. For example, it prescribes a construction reconstruction, but nowhere does it indicate how much this construction reconstruction will cost, nor has it been approached by any complete design of any whole design or scanning of the current situation. What does that mean? The first problem the profession warns about is the lack of vision and complete reconstruction of the city. So we need urban reconstruction. What does urban reconstruction mean? Urban restoration means I try to paraphrase Professor. Jukic, it means access to blocks, not individual buildings. So we can't talk about what to do with the Lower City, and that we've previously valorized all the heritage we have and seen what needs to be preserved, and what can be torn down or where some interpolation can be built. This vision of the city, of course, is not left as an option in this law, nor is any strategic approach that is generally what is key to what we are missing and what makes it impossible for us to withdraw funds from the European Funds. At a concrete level, the problem will be that only buildings that have received the mark are unusable or temporarily unusable to finance through this law. The markings have changed since the earthquake until now, and it's been publicized. This means that buildings or family houses have passed from yellow to green or vice versa. That information should be collected from the city. The law takes these variable labels as the basis of the whole law. Another thing that has not been discussed, nor has this law been potentiated, the possibility of citizens actively participating in their own reconstruction, leaves the possibility but it is not further potentiated. It's crucial because right now what the law contains is a seismic reconstruction that isn't enough, it's minimal. So, in order to have a quality seismic renewal, and that's the only thing that this law is really concentrated on right now, getting just that construction renewal, we should in some way encourage citizens to access that renewal beyond those minimum standards. This law doesn't do it in any way. Also what we were talking about, the problems of the property-legal relations that have not been solved, the possibility of defrosting the frozen capital of the Lower City which would then self-finance at least partially that restoration of all this was not a word. We will also submit amendments for many other things that are concrete proposals. For example, we see that in the bodies themselves that will manage this process in some ways and monitor the lack of lawyers, as I have already pointed out, speaking about the public procurement system, there is a great possibility of malfeasance in terms of whom these works will be allowed and at what prices. We think that lawyers will be key and that we should not have to rely on the provisions of the Penal Code which will then resolve the consequences that will still be greater than the consequences of this earthquake. So I'm going to end this debate, and we're going to make all the proposals in the amendments, and I'm going to say something that Carl Krauss said in 1912, and he said he had to disappoint the aesthetics because old Vienna was once new. After a major earthquake in 1880, Zagreb flourished in construction and in every other sense. In this sense, the adoption of this law brings us to a turning point when we have to bring it and participate in this game that we need to decide whether to transform Zagreb into a decent and safe city or we will start another normal financial unsustainable and unfair restoration without a clear hierarchy of responsibility and opportunity to end. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3950	Please disinfect the pay phone. After that, it's the SDP Representatives' Club. Two representatives, Brumnic's first colleague, followed by counterpart Hajdas Doncic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3951	Dear colleagues, respected colleagues, respected speaker of the assembly, what should be said at first about this law is that this law should help citizens, the owners living in the city of Zagreb, who died in an earthquake to return to their normal lives. The solidarity this law should show with vision and leadership is crucial to the development of a society. And I'm glad that some of the remarks from our benches have been accepted, but unfortunately, I must conclude that the adoption of this final bill is missing a historic opportunity. And these historical opportunities arise in fact from great tragedies or great challenges in our lives. The tragedy we have experienced, and the challenge that has been put before us, we have not actually been able to accept. Tragedy was primarily a material nature, and it should have forced us to think about what direction the City of Zagreb wants to go, what it wants to look like in the future, where we see it in 30 or 50 years. A complete renewal in this law involves only a brick as a term, not taking into account urbanism, green politics, quality of life and the development of the City of Zagreb. Simplifiedly, we will spend 40, 50 billion, and after the premiere this morning 86 billion kunas of our fellow citizens, and we will get what, slightly stronger walls with no idea what to do with the City of Zagreb or what to do with the part of the town of Zagreb, which, yesterday, I checked, is practically according to the GUP as an M2 zone or zone, mostly business purposes. And is this the kind of Zagreb we want, and that this crisis has shown us that in the case of an epidemic such cities become, the cities of ghosts. I'm afraid this law is losing generational opportunity because this law is written to actually bring us back on March 21st and instead of stepping into the future, we're going back to the day before. In fact, the law has shown that this government has no awareness of long-term and short-term interests, the government has shown that there is no vision which is the place of Zagreb and Croatia in Europe and the fact that we are doomed to be just a tourist destination without suing anything else. This is exactly the kind of lack of ambition that has plagued Croatian politics in recent years, not to mention for decades. A colleague mentioned before me in 1880 when the City of Zagreb actually invited the most important architects of the former state to help rebuild the City of Zagreb and turn it into one of the stars of Central Europe. But if we don't go that far, we can remember the Universals. The University of Zagreb was an opportunity that I must recognise successfully, where this event was actually built by sports and social content and transformed the City of Zagreb in every respect, urban, economic and then a clear vision of the city of Zagreb becoming a European city. We remember our predecessors today, and the question is, what will those who come behind us remember? Let me put it this way, the basic error of the whole process of passing this law lies at a time when the government bought for weeks and months and delayed the process without spending the time wisely. Instead of deeply recording the situation and deciding how to go forward, she decided how to go back. What is this government running from? This government is constantly running away from responsibility. Therefore, in the bill of law, it proposes the establishment of an expert council, the Agency for Reconstruction behind which the ministries stand and... The division of responsibility is in fact a lack of confidence and fear. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] In advance, he does not know how to plan what will happen or within what time period something will happen actually leads to nothing happening. And in the end, I would just say, when we adopt this legislative proposal, and we are very likely to accept in any way help from our fellow citizens, we will show that we are not up to the ambitions that the citizens of the City of Zagreb and Croatia expect from us. Once again, the word "future" in Croatia will be written in a secret, and we will bring strategies that will be put in the archive and that no one will read. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3952	Please stop the time to disinfect the pay phone and after that, a colleague of Hajdash Doncic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3953	Thank you. Dear President of the Assembly, colleagues and colleagues. So this law is both a philosophical and economic and ideological and sociological issue because when disaster occurs, disaster is definitely an earthquake, then the law has to be ambitious, it has to have some vision and it has to improve the situation, which means it has to be better than it was before the earthquake. Unfortunately, this law doesn't offer it to us, there's no developmental, no urban vision. Why do I say that? When I asked Mr. Plenkovic a question, I was talking about what happened. One-dimensional recovery, so back to the former state. So, we are now spending money without overstandards to patch up what's broken down and go back to the original state, and there is a decarbonisation waiting for us and the European Green Plan, so it expects us to move citizens in the very near future into overstandards because of our commitments and that we will take over, and now instead of spending something more, we will be 3 to 4 years from now. be forced to spend again, and the question will be whether the city and the state and the citizens will be able to do so because they will be over-indebted. And then instead of seeing today what our advantages are, so economic recovery, which are our advantages of urban reconstruction, it's better now to have bigger procedures and solve and give people a new vision. Why don't we just say the so-called so-called law? Energy community? What's the energy community? It is precisely an opportunity for Zagreb and part of Zagreb County, for the Zagorsko-krapin County, to enable investors to through various forms of any public private partnership, either investment itself, so to enter blocks, offices blocks and give additional economic value to either through start-ups or through offices, and thus encourage the participation of citizens, so that they participate in the reconstruction and create public content. That's why I'm saying it's an ideological question. So they create public content, place, create green infrastructure, and all together with the provisions of the spatial plan. Unfortunately, therefore, we are here as hostages of a static restoration, so only construction reconstructions, static reconstructions. So no one thinks, so those who write the law of course should do it much, much better. For that, I think there's still time for the law to be fixed, for it to be integrated and interdisciplinary, so we have some development chance in the future. Let's use this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3954	Let's move on. It is now up to the club of representatives of HSLS and Reformists, as well as two MPs, counterpart Klasic is the first and afterwards colleague Martincevic. Just a second, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3955	The Honorable President of the Assembly, distinguished fellow MPs and MPs and respected ministers. The proposed Law on the restoration of Zagreb damaged by the earthquake in the City of Zagreb and the Krapina-Zagorska and Zagreb County is a good step towards quality and transparent renewal in order to enable the primary goal, which is to return the population to their homes. I am extremely pleased that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has complied with a large number of proposals put forward in the first debate of this law, and I hope that we will agree today's proposals to get the best and the better law. What I would like to see about this law, and what the competent ministry should have provided in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance, is an assessment of the fiscal impact compared to the existing passing figures ranging from 42 billion to 86 billion. The proposed law certainly has room for further work on the technical aspect of some of our provisions, which we propose to adopt through the institution of the amendment, in the proposed law, I would like to point out a few, which is art. Paragraph 5(3), the priority of the state is to provide primary real estate for citizens' housing, the principle of solidarity cannot be extended to other buildings, taxpayers cannot be burdened with the obligation to resuscitate another building and solidarity implies the restoration of an exclusively residential building, and we will suggest probably in the amendment to delete Article 3. 5th entirely. Art. Paragraph 5 of the 5th subparagraph states that the building referred to in paragraphs 2 and 3 of this Article, the owner or co-owner shall not alienate within 5 years of the date of receipt of the final report of the supervisory engineer in the renewal in which it has been selected to sign up in land books unless 50 % of the funds provided by the Republic of Croatia, the Krapina-Zagorje County and Zagreb County are paid into the state budget. Why only 50% if the state and the city have paid 80% in the reconstruction, and the real estate itself will be worth market incomparably more after the renovation. The housing units and buildings cannot be alienated within 5 years of the renovation unless the seller pays into funds co-financed by 60% in the state fund and 20% in the budget of the city of Zagreb or Krapina-Zagorje County and Zagreb County would be more appropriate for me if the state invests, it would be logical to get back the reciprocally. Then Art. 5. paragraph 12, ensuring the transparency of the process, I am pleased that this proposal is accepted as a transparency of the reconstruction process in order to avoid possible abuse in reconstruction activities. It would be important, as noted earlier today, that costs and activities are carried out continuously and in real time. Full transparency in the reconstruction process is extremely important and therefore it is necessary to publish data on activities and costs continuously and in real time through the Internet platform. Art. The 12rd paragraph of paragraph 3 should also be changed and the programme for the overall renovation and historic and urban development of the city of Zagreb should also be read. As we know, he is so far under the direct authority of the mayor and aware of how it has worked so far, I think that what was also a recommendation of the profession here is to be completed, that this decision is made by the City of Zagreb. This will strengthen the importance of the entire reconstruction program and the historic-urban whole of Zagreb and ensure an appropriate principle of spatial planning. On the basis of this Article. 15, just a second, one second, yeah, maybe. 17, paragraph 3, each building renovated under this law, receives a seismic certificate of a building that is made as an integral part of a project of reconstruction and level 3 or above in a technical regulation and is being developed in the programme of measures. By law, it should be renewed in such a way that it is widely overlooked for the location of the cash-separation that causes earthquakes in the city of Zagreb and that in the event of a new earthquake, this whole restoration will prove to be a failure. I suggest that the seismic certificate only gets buildings with reinforced structure, not a building restored by repairing the structure to the same level as before the earthquake. I'll finish here, and I'll leave my colleague alone, and I'll carry on with this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3956	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3957	Dear President-in-Office of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, respected ministers. The People's Party of Reformists on this extremely important topic expressed its clear views right after the earthquake, and we were particularly clear about this after the adoption of the original concept of law by the former Minister of Construction, the law that was at the level of restoration of Gunja and fortunately and its adoption was prevented by a unique condemnation of the professional public. It should be recalled that what the Government has accepted and what was our proposal is to finance housing rentals for people whose apartments have become unusable after the earthquake, which is far more quality to say a more humane solution than the originally proposed camps, and it is also extremely important that the government has accepted our proposal to abandon the idea, that some advice with of course professionals who perform their other professional duties, at the same time, supervise and manage investment values over 40 and now we have heard, and far more than billions of kunas. The model that proposes this law is acceptable although it remains insufficiently defined and does not provide precise answers to a whole series of questions but states that these issues will be subsequently regulated and that we will also follow up. Furthermore, many terms so far unknown to professional practice and legislation appear in the text of the law which potentially opens up space to misunderstandings and possible abuses. For example. A reconstruction project system has been introduced, hence the non-existent term instead of the main implementation project, the construction that can enable additional costs and extra work and extracurricular work to be carried out, but can actually create a risk of illegal construction in the most sensitive parts of urban units. There are also a whole series of other termological illogicalities, of course it has warned the profession, I believe most of the MPs here, we as Reformists have prepared a whole series of amendments that regulate and that part, and we hope that the government will consider and accept them. However, what remains remains our biggest observation is the fact that this law offers technical solutions but does not offer a complete and clear picture of the urban and architectural concept and associated concept of the development of the city of Zagreb. In this law, we are talking exclusively about the concept of reconstruction, and the renewal itself means returning to the original state, it is not good enough and unfortunately we are afraid that this law will make the state miss a serious chance that it should recognize, which is that it is now and at this moment making a clear concept of the development of the city of Zagreb. Furthermore, when we talk about key topics, several MPs have mentioned it here today, it is certainly a matter of transparency, so I think we will agree that quarterly reporting is as proposed. Paragraph 12. It is not acceptable that it should be as it has been pointed out several times today in real time continuously through the Internet platform. Now we come to an extremely important article. 6. to which we will also submit the amendment, so I would like to stress here that there must be a clear one key principle, which is that if the state or taxpayers, therefore our citizens all of our citizens, are helping a citizen above this law of the prescribed standard, this is the case. 6. Then, in order to protect the assets of all other citizens in the given amount of additional support, the State should be entered in the ownership. It's public money and protection of public money is the interest of all citizens. I've already spoken to the Replica Prime Minister about the issue of people with disabilities. Only people with disabilities in the Homeland War are listed here. It's not right. It's not acceptable. We cannot share persons with disabilities on disabled wars, disability, etc., so we pray that it will also be the amendment of the People's Party of Reformists, that all persons with disabilities are equalized here. Third, Art. Article 6(2) provides for the return of the State's funds if the real estate is sold within five years. Returns in this case should not be limited by the time limit of sale of real estate. The person who has received funds from the state needs to be returned to the budget and therefore we propose to amend the payment obligation by the owner or co-owner, as well as their successors no matter where the time is and when the property is sold. It is also the protection of public money and will also prevent manipulation of these support and manipulations of state money. Reformists have prepared 12 amendments to this law, we expect the government to consider and accept them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3958	Thank you. He will now speak on behalf of the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives, respected counterpart Tomislav Tomasevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3959	I thank the Chairman for his words. As for the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives, this is certainly one of the most important laws that will be passed in this House's term, and I certainly believe that it is one of the most financially demanding laws this assembly will vote on. So it is extremely important that we all get involved and that we are constructive and we will also be constructive in our comments, and I hope that we will get after the amendments that we will submit, as well as other clubs, a better law which is in the interest of the citizens of Zagreb and the surrounding area. For starters before you go, I'd just like to say that before I go into content to deal with the situation a little bit. We don't even know what she's like right now. According to this law, the information the Government uses about how much damage the building in Zagreb is 24,000, we asked the City of Zagreb for more details about the purpose of these buildings and then we were surprised when we got the information from the City of Zagreb that 19 000 buildings were damaged in the City of Zagreb. Also, according to the government and the reasoning of the law, 1,300 buildings are currently unusable in Zagreb, and according to the Zagreb city administration this time less than 700 cities, beware that it is twice as small, it is not a small number, it is not a small difference, so we are a bit concerned because there is only one source of data, a quick review done by the City of Zagreb and the Faculty of Civil Engineering and we are concerned about this non-compliance of data that is not few. As for the content of the law and the form of the law to begin, we disagree with some colleagues from the opposition who claim that the special law was not necessary because when you have 25,000 buildings damaged in a natural disaster, then it is absolutely necessary to have a special law. I will warn that even for Gunya, for the flood in Vukovar-Srijem County, so called the law was a special law. I will also seek a special law when such a natural disaster is in any such, such a significant natural disaster in any part of Croatia, we will also advocate a special law because it is completely inadequate for the law that prescribes assistance in natural disasters because no such significant and harmful elemental disasters are foreseen. ...the data that in the lower city is a third of the buildings damaged, a third of the buildings, means about 30 percent. As for what we're happy with as a club, we're happy with the financial framework. We were still in the campaign proposing a framework where 50% financed the rebuilding of states, 35% the unit of local self-government, and 15% private owners. In the end, the government decided on a 60-20-20 model so that's more, the higher the burden takes over the state with which we're satisfied. And yet it is slightly increasing from 15% to 20% of the funding in relation to private owners, but it is also accepted what we said cannot be co-financed equally by private owners of the reconstruction whether it is a corporation or a citizen who belongs to a socially endangered group and lives in the only real estate that is damaged and has no home. So in this sense, what we are satisfied with is in this second and final bill that has included our proposals of the club on social criteria that are a combination of both property and income censorship and in this sense such a more socially vulnerable group of citizens or poorer citizens who have minimum income and have no significant property will be freed and paid by that 20% and we are satisfied with that. What we are dissatisfied with is the institutional framework, and this law is more or less prescribed only by the financial institutional framework. Anything else regarding implementation, dynamics will be prescribed in the programme of measures taken by the government and unfortunately the Parliament has nothing to do with it, what implementation will be, what dynamics, exactly how much money will be provided this year, next year it seems completely in the domain of the government. We are dissatisfied first of all with the institutional framework because we are concerned about what implementation will be, how much this law will be implemented and we are concerned that it will have to be very soon to amend this law if it is adopted like this. What we are most dissatisfied with is this proposal that has not been adopted by us, it is about the Institute for the Reconstruction of the City of Zagreb and the surrounding areas, which is modelled by the Institute for the Reconstruction of Dubrovnik and the Environment, we do not need to invent warm water if something works, and here is 40. It works, it's not some model we imported from the outside, then we don't see the reason why it didn't, and watch out for the professional associations, they're also looking for the Institute for Reconstruction, not the fund, and that's the only reason they can agree on the fund is to establish it as we wanted for both the institution and the state and the City of Zagreb and the two counties, and that's the only thing they can agree with. What we cannot agree on and in this sense, the prime minister is right, it is not what the institution is called but what the content is, what is the role of that institution, and the role of that institution or fund is to be a post office. It is a fully administrative body, no powers, no power, no professional capacity in that new institution, there will be no such fund. It doesn't even mean it doesn't even participate, it's not even mentioned in the law that it participates in the design of the programme of measures, so much for that special establishment that we're setting up. So he doesn't have any role, nor is he even asking for an opinion on the development of a programme of measures that will go back all these years. Neither does the fund nor the decision to rebuild individual buildings, does not even make the matter absurd because it is called the fund, the fund does not even make a decision to co-finance the reconstruction of individual buildings based on a decision to rebuild the ministry. So the ministry makes a decision to rebuild and then it would be logical that the fund, based on that recovery decision, could make a financing decision. No, the Ministry does the same thing, the fund doesn't. The Fund also does not produce a program of complete reconstruction of the historic core of the City of Zagreb. Now that's what the City of Zagreb's Office is doing. By what logic, I don't know. So there are no professional capacities there, and we think it would be extremely important because then we can only have a complete renovation of the city if this institution is also working on a program of complete reconstruction of the historical core, and not that this is done by the Institute for the Spatial Planning of the City of Zagreb, the fund is only an administrative body and ultimately we have a dotted reconstruction by individual buildings, and not a complete restoration of what we are seeking. Also, the counterarguments that we're given don't hold water. So I quote from the explanation “the new body cannot really collect experts but only administration, ” so you admit that it will be just an administrative body. I don't understand why you can't transfer part of the experts and the Institute for Spatial Planning of the City of Zagreb and the Institute for the Protection of the Monuments of the City of Zagreb, from the Ministry of Construction, from the Ministry of Culture, to have one central institution that really plans, implements and has all aspects of reconstruction within one institution. This way we'll have chaos of jurisdiction, dispersion of responsibility and probably inefficient restoration. I will not even mention these arguments in order to make it unconstitutional because then, because the Institute for Spatial Planning of the City of Zagreb, according to your explanation, has to do a program of complete reconstruction of the historically protected core of Zagreb. However, we now have a situation just that the Dubrovnik Reconstruction Institute as a mixed institution which is the founder of both the state and the city, is doing exactly that kind of program. And if our proposal is counter-constitutional, then the bohemian system is anti-constitutional and this Dubrovnik Reconstruction Institute is now working and doing exactly the same program of the historic core of the city of Dubrovnik. It is neither true nor argument that there would be more institutions, but there would be fewer of them because, according to us, the Institute of Spatial Planning of the City of Zagreb should neither be mentioned in the law nor should we be afraid because it is mentioned in the article on the programme of measures that introduces extrateriority precisely for the historical core where one rule will apply, and in all other parts of Zagreb and the surrounding area will apply to other rules. We also want the supervisory authority and the publication of public procurement information in real time, and that is where we will have the amendment. We agree on the disabled Homeland War that we need them, and that's what we said on the board yesterday, equalize with civilian people with disabilities. We think that we should regulate the replacement family houses differently because if there's no other property, if there's another property, it won't get a replacement family house, and we're going to co-finance the second, third, fourth and fifth apartments with 50%, which is unfair. It is also not clear to what extent the state finances the costs of recovery on private buildings, meaning in which ratio, retroactively or in the future, it is not prescribed in the law, there are a lot of technical creaminess that I can't even talk about right now, but we will submit more than 20 amendments and hopefully at least technical things, if not these essential things we hope to adopt, because otherwise we are concerned about what the implementation of this law will look like. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3960	Let's move on. Now it's the Club of Representatives of the SDSS, dear colleague Milorad Pupovac. Please, just before you clean up the pay phone. And glass please, too, plexiglas.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3961	Dear Mr. President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, respected members and members of the government. The SDSS representative club believes it is good that the government is still open to amendments and additions to this proposal of the Law on the Reconstruction of the City of Zagreb and the two counties, Zagrebačka and Krapinsko-Zagorska in the areas affected by the earthquake. And this is an extremely important thing and practice that could be applied in other segments that are important for achieving the best legal solutions as necessary to achieve them in this case. In this sense, we welcome the government's consent to include social criteria in this bill and that those citizens in the area of these three, two counties and in the city of Zagreb who are weaker property, do not have to allocate these 20% as much as they are expected as owners or co-owners, and this is extremely significant. Here is the Minister of Finance, here is the Minister of Culture, although it is not directly related to and entirely related to its portfolio, State Secretary from the Ministry of State Property and other areas, I suggest that on behalf of the club, it be considered that this entire property or social censorship is still slightly lifted. So not only with 4000 kn of total income and 200 0000 values of assets, but also to raise to those who earn up to 8000 kn and whose value of the assets goes up to 400,000 kn but not in that sense they do not pay those 20% but also to have a subsidised interest on favourable credit and favourable credit conditions. It would be a small but significant contribution for a fairly widespread population that we have both in the city of Zagreb and in these districts that are adjacent. But for the state, there would be no more significant means. This is the practice we had in the case of housing programs, former housing rights holders, we still have today and we can apply such practices in some way and here. I haven't done any work, and neither has the club done any financial calculation as much as it could cost, but I suggest the government think about it. The second thing I propose to the Government is that the expert advice provided for, whose formation is foreseen by this law, and its powers are being slightly more specificised. So he has an advisory role, but this advisory role should be somewhat more precise and precise, in which he has an advisory role and when he has an advisory role. Thus, the law stipulates that complete renovation of buildings representing cultural heritage should be carried out, for example. Zagreb or elsewhere, then it would be good for the expert advice to take a look at the proposal for a renovation programme. We do not doubt the Institute for the Reconstruction of the City of Zagreb, but it is much better to spread teams of people especially experts involved in this advice, I can take a look at it and say my opinion on it. So before such a programme goes into possible realization, it's similar with the fund, and the fund makes some strategic decisions. And the fund can face a crisis in the dynamics of the inflow of funds and the expert advice should have some kind of opinion on the fact that there are, of course, representatives of the government and not just representatives of professional and Czech associations as provided for by the law. So the Club of Representatives of the SDSS will propose an amendment in this sense to strengthen or extend the expert council, better specified, powers. And we expect and hope that the government will accept it. What I forgot to say about this property work, those who are in the debate so far, especially those who are at the Civil Engineering Committee meeting yesterday, said that it is necessary to include the disabled in that category that belongs to the social group that will not participate with these 20% in the restoration, and it is well planned to be members of the defence population who are disabled but is also good and it is a good proposal for whoever put it out, that they are and not only those who are disabled by the foundation of participation in the war but also those who are disabled and that in this respect at least there is no reason to have any discriminatory treatment, so we ask that the representatives of the Government and such a proposal accept. As far as two other things are concerned, first of all, the dynamics and the scale of reconstruction, which are critical places of this law. The inflow of funds into the fund, the way of spending and the dynamics of spending these funds are something that will certainly be in the public interest, especially those who can be users of these funds, the reconstruction of whose apartments and houses are directly dependent on it. For this reason, it seems to me that the Committee, the Assembly Committee, the Building Committee, should play an outstanding role when it comes to monitoring it. I understand that the government will do so, I understand that on the section of expertise it can also do so with expert advice but the parliamentary committee where representatives of the ruling majority and representatives of the opposition are present must play a significant role in this regard. Not because we're getting over it, which is sometimes inevitable because we all know who we are longer in this period that the nuance is in a positive and negative sense... an integral part of our job or finding hair in an egg which is also an integral part of our work, I'm not talking about all other positive aspects because it brings in new dynamics and it ensures a sense for citizens to hear their voice. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] For this reason, it seems to me that the Committee should give a more significant role when it comes to monitoring the dynamics of the inflow of funds, ways of deploying these funds and possible corrections in complaints that can come from people, which is with us, why for so long, why these have been won, and we are not, etc. Finally, here I listened with attention to some colleagues, while at the same time listening to some public debates of proposals concerning broader urban solutions programmes for both the city of Zagreb and these two counties, as well as for the entire Republic of Croatia. And I don't really have any objection to that, except I can welcome on behalf of the SDSS Club thinking in that direction, which comes, either from the university, either from the Czech professional associations or from our colleagues who spoke before me. The problem is that right now it's urgent to fix as much as possible and as fast as possible. And such a wide procedure would certainly require at least as much resources as necessary for what needs to be done urgently. However, I cannot support this proposal, therefore, but I think it is necessary to remain in the debate and see how the damages that have been done over the past 30 years in the sphere of urbanism or debauchery can be corrected by a better legal solution that should be sought in the next possible debates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3962	Let's move on. It is now time for the House Movement Representatives' Club, just a little while, counterpart Hasanbegovic, to disinfect the speaker. The representative Zlatko Hasanbegovic will speak on behalf of the club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3963	Your Honor. The prerequisite for the adoption of a excessive and enforceable legislative solution, except, of course, the political will in this House, is also the answer to the key question that is said, unfortunately, it is necessary to repeat it daily. Why did the earthquake have such disastrous consequences in the Zagreb historical core, rather than significantly less independent of its strength, which would naturally be inevitable in itself. I'm aware that it's burned a lot of ears, and that's why I'm going to recapture the answer to that key question because, I mean, the media replicas you've been telling me about, ma'am. Boric, Mr. Tomašević and others from the activist group of spiritual political and other inheritanceists of permanent surrenders, so the half-century Yugoslav Osmoslavian communist socio-political earthquake after the robbery and devastation of original owners who until then cared, including the construction of their private property and the redistribution of kidnapped residential prey in the form of, etc. The tenant rights of Zagreb's historic urban core turned into a derelict and decrepit ghetto with the first restored fronts, the older ones remember, only in the mid-80s. Ruin in which no one invested, and what was continued after 1990 by post-Communist management of urban property-legal interference, was all sealed after 1990 by legalization of robbery and kidnapping through a cheap purchase of so-called. In fact, other people's seized property, instead of natural return to the original owners, regardless of whether they live in Zagreb, Tel Aviv or Buenos Aires. The next forest issue I asked is what are the basic problems that need to be addressed by this law and what is the strategic objective of this law. Is the goal of colloquially speaking, the patching of buildings damaged by the earthquake, the euphemism for this is so-called. the construction reconstruction in the permanent state financial support of this or that pre-election percentage, or the objective of creating a legal framework for the so-called so-called so-called legal framework. the overall urban renewal, which is a vision that should be a specific objective in the end line, which is the consequence of the earthquake only of incentives and occasion, as it is possible to remove the damage and to restore it to the state before the earthquake and without achieving so-called “the earthquake”. full urban renovations. These are two completely different goals, not necessarily and consistent, which turns this law into a daily-political complement of pears and apples. These doubts, and among those interested in the earthquake, create confusion and confusion because at the moment they are only interested in how they will quickly restore their chimneys and dent walls, and in order to buy a cup, bathe in warm water and heat, since winter is at the door. With the realization of the millennium vision that everyone is competing here, the entire urban reconstruction is not at all focused on them at all. The answers to all these questions for the purpose and purpose of the law and the different doubts given by Minister Horvat in a very useful newspaper interview a few days ago, I thanked him for that, since he finally removed the habitual illusions and the pre-election and post-election political fog, clearly explained in simple language. What's the word in this pre-election wannabe law? Minister Horvat is speaking next. Of course, I paraphrase, the law solves two completely different questions, he called it discipline. First, what's life for private owners, question so-called. construction renovations, which translates into detachment of chimneys, stairways and dental walls, and, of course, has nothing to do with the vision of the so-called vision. The entire urban reconstruction of the Zagreb historical core. This type of patching and this first property will be co-financed by the state and the city with 80% with a key minister's message to damaged owners who read, go now and you should have already started what the owners and did and did, and after the end you will get a refund when the bureaucratic apparatus decides to do so no later than a month before the elections in Zagreb when, of course, mass payments will begin. Until then, if you rely on state and city bureaucracy, so-called. advice or unnecessary institutions that are called by the camp of the activist quasi-left from the Zagreb cave bathe in cold water, assuming that you can enter your property. The minister continues the second so-called. Distinction is the idea of the so-called idea. The whole urban reconstruction that has nothing to do with the earthquake and for which it does not exist is very clear, the state, the budgetary resources to which it is being added or ever will exist, actually should not exist since the Zagreb residential, urban core has not been built, so it will not be restored by any state but has been built by the efforts and business genius of private entrepreneurship that communism has liquidated, post-Communism has burdened different legal constraints. The Horvath continues, and so on we introduced the so-called "Horvat". Social censorship as a political demagogue concession Radi Boric and the Workers' Front are aware that only in post-Communist Croatia can be handled by sensors and by having any property in the centre of Zagreb. Susus answers to a rhetorical question which, after taking into account the content of the final proposal and is no longer rhetorical, was this law as a lex specialis at all necessary. Fah idiotically, an official commentator from the ministry answered my question from the debate in the first reading extremely banally. I quote, it was necessary because so-called. political consensus. So what, for what? Without the need to grant cheap demagogy, my answer is unnecessary, except as someone's political platform, because the existing provisions of the Construction Act have been sufficiently applied for construction purposes, and state support for the owners of chimneys, staircases and dental walls amounting to 5, 10, 15, 80 or 150 pre-election percentages could also be passed on through the existing government regulation, underlaw or city decision. For the full restoration of all damaged buildings in state and city ownership, it is not necessary to pass a new law, and the solution to the problem of achieving a full vision of urban reconstruction, which is only an incentive, is not in the adoption of a lex specialis which only recognises the shortcomings of the existing legal framework, but also in changing the overall legislation, including anti-enterprise restrictions from GUPs and terrors of different lifeless conservation guidelines that are the same for Split, Osijek or Rijeka and all Croatian historical urban cores that have the same right to an opportunity for full urban restoration as the City of Zagreb. Finally, with regard to Yugoslav communism, as the basis behind the scope of the damage caused by the bill's proposal, the state aid to the 80 per cent damage recovery owners refers to only one real estate while the next is reduced by 50% to 50%. This could be debated if in the Croatian state in the 21st century private ownership still does not exist against the constitutionally restricted communist relic of the so-called "Relic". protected tenants. This law further punishes the victims of communist terror by exempting owners of other properties who live against their will, so-called, from the full amount of state support for reconstruction. protected tenants. In conclusion, being against, abstention and/or for this law is ultimately irrelevant, he will implement when pre-elections are settled The fog will remain impertinent and we'll see in 1, 5 or 10 years. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3964	Please just clean up the pay phone. Just short information means right now at 12 o'clock and 2 minutes is out of time to report the debate so I can tell you now that we have five more clubs. So up to 1 will take some debate around clubs when and then the free speech is planned, after which we will continue with individual debates, there are 36. It means you can sort of plan your own time. It is now up to the Party's representative's club with a name and last name, Smart and GLAS, according to a respected colleague Mrak Taritas and after her colleague Oreskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3965	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Ministers and State Secretarys with Associates, colleagues and colleagues, the law that defines the renewal of the law so eagerly awaited by the citizens of the City of Zagreb is here before us in another reading. As the law is even complex for first reading, there was therefore a dispute between then coalition partners along with the third coalition partner who was both in the City of Zagreb and in this, therefore to this House Mr. Bandic, there was a debate, there were agreements and then something was concluded as a semi-product, that semi-product went into public debate for the simple reason to show before parliamentary elections that something had been done and that something had happened. The half-product is equally, we as parliamentarians in the new assembly were making observations and these remarks refer to this, this story. The key thing is we want this law? That's the key question. Do we want to quickly rebuild certain properties by this law, and by this law we want to allow the transformation of the city of Zagreb to one another, and I must remind you that from that catastrophic earthquake that was in 1880, the city of Zagreb turned from one such, edged small town to one serious city. We have from the city now that you're leaving this assembly, when you leave home, they have buildings from 1830 that have suffered two earthquakes. So that's the key question because if we want something fast, it's not this. If we want to transform the city of Zagreb into a new value, it is not equal to this. This law has a few things that are really problematic. We, as a club of representatives who make up three parties or three MPs, will not support this law and we will explain both in the name of the club and in individual debates, I think there will be opportunities why we will not do so. Two things this law should have solved immediately. The first thing is when you go into something, who's applying? How is the application filed? What in the documentation is given in the request? Who solves the request and the way the whole business continues to be done? This law does not resolve this, this law has said and cannot be applied directly but has said that it will be a programme of measures, that the programme of measures will be adopted by the Government and that this programme will define key topics and key things. Equally so that the law could be implemented, we're going to need the establishment of a fund. The question is, why? For what? What I'm trying to point out is, if it was an emergency to get rid of things, then it was really urgent to pass a law that would solve it, but it turned out it wasn't. If you really want one serious transformation of the city of Zagreb into a new value, then this law should be settled. Now I'm going to make a little note, three things. So when it comes to buildings that are damaged, properties that are damaged, you have 3 options, you have a recovery, you have a reconstruction and you have a transformation into a new value. Sanitation is, let's get rid of it because it's some kind of minor damage. Reconstruction is let's do one serious thing and transformation is into a new value. The odds that happen need to be turned into opportunities. The failure that struck the city of Zagreb and, of course, the space of these two districts by earthquake was to turn the city of Zagreb into an opportunity. Once you miss it, you miss it forever. It's been five months. from the earthquake. Citizens went on their own to rebuild their real estate because they had to live somewhere. Just sum up everything the law says, so when the law comes into force, then there should be a programme of measures, then a programme of measures must be taken by the government, then it must be published in the National Journal, then we must establish a fund that will be established by the state and the city of Zagreb, then that fund must employ someone, then it must function. I was once a couple of months ago. She said by the end of the year there would be nothing and nothing could be done, it's not even the end of this year, it's each other's year. And now only two more sentences. There weren't any clubs that came here that didn't say whether they were in position or opposition, I have amendments, I'm going to give amendments, I'm going to give 10 amendments, I'm going to give 12 amendments, I'm going to give three amendments. When we all talk about these amendments, then something rotted in the state of Denmark, it just means that the law just isn't good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3966	Thank you. Continuing.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3967	Honored Chairman, fellow MPs and MPs. The law on rebuilding buildings damaged by an earthquake is indeed an important law but if we adopt it in this form as directed into another reading, its only value will be that it will witness the time in which citizens chose a power that has no courage or vision to solve the problems we face. As one generation, we have failed against our predecessors who knew how to breathe a new life after a devastating earthquake in 1880 and give it new strength for the challenges of a new time. And this law will fail not only the present but also the future generations. It is obvious that the government did not even know what its purpose was, even what the law said was being solved, there is no real content in the law itself. When we talk about the purpose, we need to start from the fact that they are the first earthquake and then after the flood, to show how much the city of Zagreb is built and organised down, so it is not acceptable to resuscitate just to the extent that all the rotten structure of the city will be hidden from our eyes. Zagreb needs a proper renovation and should be approached so that all buildings, regardless of whether they have suffered visible damage in this earthquake, are able to be more mechanically resistant and thus safer than they were before. There is simply no such thinking in the draft of this law. Zagreb is located in a seismologically active area, therefore it is not questionable that there will be new earthquakes, the question is only when they will happen and how destructive they will be, so it is important to understand that the same right to stable and secure buildings from the earthquake must be given to all citizens on equal terms. Much of the debate on models and co-financing ratios discussed solidarity but we failed to see that the law violates the constitutional principle of equality. I'll show it on one example. Should citizens of buildings in Trešnjevci who are obviously built with bricks, finance the reconstruction and product of the earthquake strengthening of damaged buildings in the center without having the same right to subsidized support for the anti-quake strengthening of their own buildings? If during the reconstruction and strengthening of damaged buildings we are going to introduce seismological certificates, then those buildings that have suffered visible damage will be placed in a more favourable position than those whose endurance is not adequate for them to be able to withstand an earthquake of about 5.5 degrees. All future work with these less categorized buildings such as more expensive earthquake insurance, more expensive square prices, lower rent in the case of rentals will be in an unfavourable relationship with renovated and construction-enhancing buildings, so they will be brought into permanent, not in a one-time more unfavourable position, and all those owners of all buildings that have not suffered damage at the moment and are simply not affected by this law. Simply put, all intact buildings will not have the rights offered by this law to only one social group. The rapid recovery of the damage should have been an urgent task and the task should have already been completed. It is a task that is temporary and short-term, and we need a law that will allow the safety and quality of life in Zagreb for the next 50 to 100 years. We don't have the right to half-sustainable solutions. It is therefore necessary to install modern anti - earthquake knowledge in the restoration, but the goal of the restoration cannot be to bring about the same condition as before the earthquake. Recovering the damage, which this law actually comes down to, and without a complementary plan of construction and development of the city is simply a missed direction. The earthquake is imposed as an argument for a planned urban reconstruction, a task that the government has not recognized, and what is not recognised as a problem cannot be solved either, and neither does this law solve what was meant to be its purpose. Billions discussed in the context of reconstruction can be used as billions of expensive short-term patchages and failures in a city that is without vision or as a billion eligible investments in a city with a clear goal where it wants to be in the future. And in order to even know what the task is, but also the challenge before us, we needed to know more about the specific nature of damaged buildings, much more than what it says in the statistical reports along with the law itself. We needed precise tables of categorized buildings, categorized damages, as well as the ownership structure of the same ones, without doing so we simply didn't have to go through the draft laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3968	Thank you. The next debate is on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club and distinguished representative Domagoj Ivan Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3969	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, dear ministers. I warmly welcome you all, and for the beginning of this presentation, he would like to visit us briefly and renew the impression from our last debate from the first reading. I remember that it was a good debate actually unexpectedly constructive, there was a lot of suggestion and I was just glad about it. Somehow, the result of the vote after the first reading, and I believe it will be in the second reading now. I would like to thank the Government of the Republic of Croatia and Mr. Prime Minister Plenkovic, but also to all of you, all the clubs and representatives of HS who have made their proposals in the best interest of solving this situation in Zagreb as soon as possible and to allow for the rapid and efficient restoration and, above all, a warm home and a safe roof over our fellow citizens' heads. I am very glad that the Croatian government has respected more than 25 concrete proposals from the opposition, some in part, I think that there are more than 25 and that on the proposal it seems that we are just the platform of "We Can" fellow Tomasevic introduced these social economic criteria in the law. The most important thing in all of this is that all of us, regardless of the authorities or the opposition, are our fellow citizens who died in the earthquake and as effective as possible and as fast and more transparent as possible. I think the law has another important dimension, and this law has a message of solidarity and social sensitivity, it has a message for all Croatians and all Croatian citizens regardless of nationality, religion, property status that at any time the Croatian state, we legislators, the Croatian Government will be there for them and will not let them down when necessary. In that name, I will remind us that nearly a billion euros have been provided for this first phase of reconstruction, 500 million eras from the EU Solidarity Fund, and almost so much that from the budget, which comes from a lot of cheap loans. At this point, I think it's important because without money, of course, all of this together that we're talking about doesn't make sense, and it's not going to happen. I will repeat from the last time, I think that this law that is most complex probably after the Homeland War and the restoration after the Homeland War, deals primarily with real problems, tries to solve our fellow citizens' problems in the earthquake, and tries less to deal with form and not collect political points, so I think that rightly as the ruling majority decided first of all to focus on this very political inclusiveness when it comes to this law. The law consists of nine parts and I will strive to highlight in as short as possible the following, first of all the change since the last time, so the law includes all types of buildings and houses and the fastest possible covers all the damaged citizens. their property in Zagreb, Zagreb and Krapina-Zagorje County, defining the way and process of renovation or removal of buildings. Compared to the first reading, there are many changes in that section, and I will list the key ones. Therefore, the share of the Republic of Croatia is reduced from 60% and 40% respectively, and the City of Zagreb and the two counties from 20%, and the share of owners rises from 20 to 50% of those who, when it comes to the Law on Reconstruction, are not the first more real estate than the second, the third one that will be renewed under the Law on Reconstruction and I think that is absolutely the right direction. The cost of removing buildings that cannot be restored will go entirely to the burden of the Republic of Croatia. In the new article. The 6th list of social economic criteria that the owners exempt from participating in paying the costs of reconstruction and is precisely defined by the property or income censorship, and two other groups of our citizens, these are the disabled of the Homeland War and the beneficiaries of social assistance. If within five years these properties are sold, all of our fellow citizens who will not participate in anything in the cost of reconstruction will still be like everyone else in the situation of paying 20%, and I think that's right. It is also specified that the Fund for Reconstruction in which owners will pay their contributions with the recording of the mortgage on the assets of those who do not make the payment until the start of the renewal. The second part of the law under the name of rebuilding the building defines buildings that are being renovated and how the damaged buildings are restored. I believe it is important for our fellow citizens to repeat, so all damaged, of course, multi-state buildings and family houses, residential business buildings, business buildings and public purpose buildings. Compared to the first reading, they are defined for reconstruction and buildings where unlawful reconstructions have been made, if the owner agrees to return the building, or his part of the building in its previous state and pay the cost, too, I think it is quite correct. The third part of the law, the removal of buildings, deals with the definition of buildings that are removed and the process of removal itself. There's no change here. Part 4 deals with the construction of replacement family houses, details all the details under which the conditions are built, the place of construction and size, as well as the whole process of building the replacement house. I will stress that a replacement family house can be built under this law, only on condition that the owner or relatives on 22 March are not the owners of another habitable house or apartment. I think it is quite right that an article which obliges the authorities is thrown out when the security payment is made to the budget until the decision on construction is made and the responsibility of both the main designer and the projector and the auditor is more precise. Part 5 defines financial assistance for temporary protection of buildings, monetary assistance for all affected citizens and those who have already renovated their buildings and financial assistance, instead of building a replacement family home for those who will not want to build a replacement family house. Part 6 defines the establishment of the City of Zagreb, Krapina-Zagorje County and Zagreb County Fund with the aim of restoring buildings, paying cash assistance, removing buildings and building replacement family houses. The elections, as we have heard many times today in recent weeks, the selection of participants in construction, reconstruction and removal will be carried out under the Public Procurement Act, and according to the criteria set by the programme of measures. The same programme sets the highest prices for services, works and construction products that can be accepted. The main changes and additions here are if the co-owners of the building do not submit a request for a decision on renewal or do not agree with the majority of co-owners or the owner is unknown or unknown, the building shall be treated in accordance with the regulations laying down inspection supervision of the construction and restoration of the public purpose building is fully financed by the owner or legal person or body to which the building is placed for management. The 7th part, 8th and 9th in principle there are no major changes, some more technical nature changes, and I would like to come to this final part, where I would like to open, or highlight 3 themes. It's one question of transparency. Given the cost of all our fellow citizens and the state budget, the longevity of the renovation that is ahead of us, I think it is essential that we also be completely transparent in applying and that this law be better written and therefore I think it is good for all those who have something to add to it, to suggest that they do so even in this time ahead of us. This legal framework is a guarantee that everything will be fair and transparent and I do not agree now with the wicked prophets who scare us with corruption and crime. On the contrary, I believe that the main criteria will be for selecting people who will participate at all levels of reference expertise and I believe that the effects, especially at this difficult time for the Croatian economy and our entrepreneurs, craftsmen, not only of Zagreb but also of Croatia as a whole, will be positive and we will use this double or multiple, if you will, which has found us in Zagreb in and across the country, in the city, to lay new foundations for the development of the city and to speed up the economic recovery of our country. The second pillar, I mentioned this morning already on behalf of the club in seeking a break issue of solidarity and social sensitivity. I think that even in the first reading by taking 60% of the cost to myself, the government of the Republic of Croatia has shown what it means to take on financial responsibility, namely to show this solidarity and to stress once more changes to the law, in this reading which will be fully funded by the most vulnerable, most needed ones. It's a step that is certainly needed. So far, these 30 years, so our country has always stood at the disposal of all those who needed it, so whether it was a restoration during the Homeland War, I will remind you during the Homeland War our exiles did not live in tents but lived in hotels. And I think that, when I hear some, some everywhere, some of the criticism, I mean, I don't understand. I think that indeed these 30 years, at all times, the Croatian state, wherever in Croatia, even outside Croatia, should have been there to protect them and help them. And thirdly, the third pillar is the inclusive endeavor of this very thing I've been saying, achieving consensus in HS, the issue of recovery from earthquakes can't be a question of day-to-day political bickering, nor is it a time to brush up our differences to break up here, I think the right government and the ruling majority have decided to accept all the proposals, and therefore I believe that, not only this debate today but also the next days, when the proposals, i.e. the amendment and the final vote, will show that we are all mature, responsible, and that in the same way, regardless of the differences in this House, will approach the same way that is before us, and that is the struggle with the economic crisis. I think it's on these three pillars, transparency, solidarity and political inclusion, what our fellow citizens expect us to do with the coming, or already there, crisis. The HDZ Club will support, of course, the law and I call upon everything Clubs to do the same. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3970	The next is the distinguished representative of Silvano Hrelja on behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSS and HSU.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3971	Dear Mr. Vice President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. I have performed many times behind this speaker, and it is indeed rare that one law in the second reading has brought 20 newspapers that have emerged from the debate in the first reading, and in any case it is commendable, could somehow be said that the new assembly's new assembly is more serious, better discussed, better argued problems, and that perhaps it could be a positive sign, and perhaps for the perception of citizens, a better perception of citizens according to HS. So I want to commend all those who have listened, read the comments and one number of them and included in the final draft of the law. So, what was mentioned most in the debate in the first reading, notably in the first reading, we as the HSS Club and HSU were restrained, in the end I will say what our position would be on this final proposal, so what was mentioned most and asked for the property censorship that is now being set up. Income of owners and partners less than £4,000,00, assets less than £200,000, commendable and necessary. But let's always ask ourselves at the censors that these are, or we realize that these are some kind of boundaries, some limits of fairness, and whenever they reach the budget, they should be a step, but the first step is not the only step. So we have the opportunity to know the entire property, all the income, all the obligations of all our citizens, we live in a society where these opportunities exist and I think that primarily our goal is to protect the weakest and the poorest, and those who can pay more because they have a bunch of real estate somewhere else would have to have other censorships. That's why I support some of the suggestions that came out here in the sense that we have more species, kind of censorship. Maybe in the future we shouldn't, we should hesitate to make more categories because they are in the same basket and those who have 210.000,00 kn and those who have 3 million kunas. Generally, the Republic of Croatia has a problem with false solidarity, which is why, often, real assistance is not given at least in due time to those who really need it. But I'm not going to talk about it today because it's another very painful topic in the Republic and without a desire to look at real images and situations in the Republic of Croatia's shifts in the fight against false solidarity will not be. The state has been calling for solidarity by an 80% percentage, please also to call for responsibility and reality. Some particularly wanted to be responsible in the centre of Zagreb, they restored and consolidated their properties, but the state prevented them from doing so with its regulations, costs and bureaucracy. Some didn't care at all about the state of property, or the safety of passersby, the state was looking through their fingers, now saving both of them. Elemental accidents are higher forces, can't be predicted, but here the item on the account that's being placed on the taxpayers will be some of our old sins and miss. We always like to compare ourselves with others. The comparisons with others help in objectivity, so I'm going to compare our situation with a country that we can't compare to otherwise, we can't compare to it because our olive oil is fine, but it's not oil, I'm going to compare with a country rich in oil, and that's Norway. Norway among the richest countries in the world, stable and in crisis, on the scale of economic stability the first and economic resistance to the crisis first in the world. Let's remind you, the Republic of Croatia is 37th on that ladder. Solidarity Norway, solidarity when needed, satisfied residents. This is how they regulated fees or damages in the event of natural disasters. There is no compensation if there was a possibility of insurance, if the cost of reconstruction is greater than the value of the property is not renewed, but the compensation is paid, there is no compensation for the property owned by the state, municipalities and public undertakings, the compensation is reduced or refused if the cost of reconstruction exceeds the value, if the damage has occurred or occurred largely due to non-sustainability, if it can be demonstrated that the owner was able to reduce the damage and the damages are reduced if the recovery would increase the value of the property. If there is not sufficient funding in view of the number of applications, the fees shall be reduced. I cite this only as an example that there are different approaches to learning from, one of the richest countries in the world raising their citizens to be responsible first, while at the same time giving them the guarantee that they will be responsible for them and that they can count above a certain limit on state aid, but they must primarily fulfil their obligation and their responsibility. One more question. Do we have a goal that we want to enforce by this law? Whether after spending all these funds the old core of Zagreb will withstand an earthquake of 6 degrees per Richter scale or what just rocked will collapse, and what we restore will remain up there. What are we doing? I'm 20 years ago. was fascinated by how the old Brussels core was restored. On the steel rope stood the frontline to retain the identity of the city and all those cultural sights, everything else was restored, everything else from basement to roof kept visual identity, but they can, they have a completely restored old core of the city. It's when the state does something planically here isn't working planically in the past, I'm afraid we haven't defined exactly what our goal is right now. The new Zagreb that was built in '64. And it can last seven on Richter, seven degrees earthquakes on Richter I know it'll last because it's so, so built. What are we doing with the old core? If we will have after all this and spending this much money, or if we have to plan some new reconstruction processes for the old core of the City of Zagreb at the same time, which is worth it. And finally, we will support this law because it is necessary, Club HSS and HSU, because it is necessary to start applying and renewing as soon as possible. We give support with the hope that the problems will be identified and solved in time for walking when not everyone could have predicted it now. I predict, in front of our club, that by 2021, we will have more amendments and additions to this law because of situations that we cannot imagine at all, let alone what we welcome in advance, we welcome in advance, because it is better for these reasons that we are changing the law than that the ministers do to us with their discretionary rights in such sensitive matters to the rules. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3972	Thank you. The next debate is a respected representative of Predrag Štromar on behalf of the Club of HNS, LS and independent representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3973	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow parliamentary representatives, representatives of the legislator of the law are finally before us this Rehabilitation Act. He says, finally, because it's been almost half a year since the earthquake, and people expect us to pass the law, not to politicize how we're going to help them. Helping anyone who had lost their homes or their homes and apartments had been damaged was the goal from the very beginning, and that attitude was taken and passed by the government. It is clear that no real solution can be found overnight, nor will this law satisfy everyone, but it is important to secure the funds because without it the law itself is a dead letter on paper. Meanwhile, in the past term, intervention measures were taken especially for roofs, for dental walls, for stairways, a number of talks with the profession were carried out, the profession had been in the making of the law since the beginning, and disagreements between the profession itself had to be reconciled. And we heard here that there is also an opponent against the law itself, but should be kept in mind that first in the center of Zagreb people still live in danger of health and life. It should also be borne in mind that buildings in the Croatian metropolis must be provided and rescheduled and done by passersby. Also not only the centre of Zagreb was injured, houses in Markuševec were killed, family homes in Krapina-Zagorje County, Zagreb County. However, what I insist on is the transparency of spending money. Citizens need to know what and how each kuna for restoration went, who will be contractors, how they were chosen and how the procurement was carried out. By clicking on each house, each housing unit will have to see everything, building condition, necessary works, project, cost-effectiveness, public procurement, execution, planning, amounts, co-financing of citizens themselves, co-financing of the unit of local self-government, how much funding we received from the solidarity fund and that we invested in each housing unit. At the end of the last term, it began to prepare an application where you would really see it all. I continue to insist that the application be completed immediately and after the law has been passed and active. I repeat, people need, citizens need to know exactly what money is spent on. Next, no one's talking about further assignments. This law is a good opportunity to and amend the Law on Construction and to add one chapter, which will define how any building in the Republic of Croatia will be built or renovated in the future, especially in those areas where the earthquake could potentially be strong and destructive. By preparing this law we have learned a lot and it should be the first step of both the ministries and the government, to define how the next steps will be when and by chance some earthquake will happen, to take advantage of this law and to make one universal not only law for Zagreb, Krapina-Zagorje County and Zagreb County, but a law for the whole of Croatia, and potentially which we may never use and hope that we will not use it. Then the following law that is very important and if we had it before would be easier now, which is the Building Maintenance Act. In particular, the maintenance of multi-state buildings should be defined, quality reserves, insurance, and when new buildings are being built, where more tenants will be owned, how all these relationships will be defined, which are exactly the jobs of the manager, which are the business of the tenants' representatives and how the tenants agree each other's responsibilities for the constructive part of the static, but also for the maintenance of all the parts that are common in the building and used by all tenants. I appeal to everyone to declare this law, to start and use it as soon as possible for the satisfaction of the citizens of Zagreb, Krapina-Zagorje County and Zagreb County because they really need help and it is urgent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3974	Thank you. Next debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns, distinguished representative Željko Sačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3975	In front of us, this improved draft of the law by the promoter and certainly valuable commendation that the reasoned amendments, the proposals that have contributed to its quality, and all of us who are living, who are actually damaged by this powerful earthquake, are very faithfully and impatiently expected to live with, of course, everything that can further improve its quality, which can allow especially the citizens of our edged parts of Zagreb, here Zagreb County, under Sljemen, which is the most affected by this earthquake, our Zagorje, to allow a safe stay and use of the family home as soon as possible, autumn is at the door, there is winter and too long waiting. It is certainly good that the law has made a certain distinction compared to the narrow city core of Zagreb, it is very complex questions, it is not all the same to restore the city of Zagreb in its monumental heritage, cultural and historical of those buildings of residential, business and all those on the periphery, and therefore we recommend that the promoter further excellencies of this social and property censorship, why not, however, to enable additional provision, additional use and benefits of co-financing, either by the state, by local administration and self-government for citizens who cross this censorship up to 4000 kn as it is proposed, to otherwise stimulate them when they raise loans, to be in a certain position towards banks with interest rates or whatever. It is also extremely useful that you have made a difference with our citizens who are the owners of multi-state facilities, apartments and family houses and that it is financed, this solidarity, which is necessary, which we are proud of, that it is limited to what is necessary and all that is beyond that, which is already talking about certain other needs, that citizens must then take care of themselves and that risk in some way for other real estate themselves. Also, very important questions are also important, and the colleague mentioned here, the out-of-book legal questions of compensation and co-financing for our non-book owners, many of them, especially in these prigorje regions, of Zagorje, are issues old and a hundred years old where real estate was not properly entered into the inheritance, etc., and our proposer should certainly give an answer to this question that people who are in fact living, whose property is a roof above their heads, should not be eliminated with that basis for formal reasons. The same should be said in the same legalisation process, unfortunately it is not yet complete. Many have stayed halfway in this process, many are almost near the end, the earthquake has found them, and we also have to have them when we have opened the door, to legalize their properties, that we have passed such a law, then we have to be consistent and make it actually applicable in this case. We should certainly welcome Croatian sovereigns, and we do this, the efforts of the Croatian state, Croatian society to restore our blindness, churches and that citizens can meet all their religious needs, but we know that these are huge, huge, huge damages, huge investments, but here it is, ahead of us. And most importantly, we received as a club of Croatian sovereigns, hopefully all others, one important document, a proposal, significant by its expertise, weight, by authority, a proposal to amend several articles of this law, 5, 6, whose signatories are, for example, the Faculty of Architecture in Zagreb, the Association of Croatian Architects, the Croatian Chamber of Architects, the Croatian Society of Regional Architecture, the Association of Croatian Urbanists, the Association of Architects of Zagreb. This is a document explained by itself which requires and exceptional seriousness, I suggest that the promoter, seriously, finds the time to talk to such distinguished authors of remarks, complements and that he absolutely assesses what it is, which is useful, and I believe that much is useful in the citizens' interest to be respected, thus getting an even greater positive value and weight and benefiting citizens. On behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns Club right now after this second reading, and in particular in the hope, optimism that you will accept and what this debate will bring, we will allly support the adoption of a law like this which, which you have proposed, is precisely for the reason that our citizens are waiting with impatience. They've been waiting for it for months, and many have set out to resuscitate their houses alone, with their resources, with their credits, with friends engaging, knowing how anyone knows and knows and can watch us today, I welcome them all, encourage them, and I believe that both this assembly and this government will carry out as soon as possible how we have heard our solidarity commitment today, that they will not turn their faces from those who need it most. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3976	Thank you. We've exhausted the debate on behalf of the clubs. The first individual debate is Honorary Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3977	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens here are about Zagreb and the surrounding area and as I said at the beginning of the Croatian citizens i.e. The Croatian people have always been solid in difficult situations, and in cases of threats should be solid with all citizens, and especially with those who have been threatened, it was an earthquake in Zagreb, it was a fire in Dalmatia, it was a natural disaster in Slavonia in this elemental disaster in their fields that often took place, but these people were forgotten as two-thirds of Croatia were forgotten. I know, the focus is on Zagreb. Zagreb is the capital of the Republic of Croatia and in this need and a merciless event where no one could have influenced only nature, and dear God himself has happened, we have enormous damage and I am glad to discuss it, only I am sorry that we as parliamentary representatives have been decimated, I do not know why, which are the reasons why the presidency has brought, or my colleague Sanader, Jandroković, Ostojić, Miroslav Škoro, which is why they have brought this measure and why it has not been discussed in the assembly, is it possible for all parliamentary representatives to be in the assembly because it is possible. If we could be at the constitution we could be now, this is about serious things, and the people are paying us parliamentary deputies to discuss. Like I said, it's in my Chetin neighborhood in '89. i.e. '90s. The year was an earthquake, money was received, I hope it will not end that money that is now being received by Zagreb as it ended in the Cetina region. Afterwards, that money went as a loan to Tedeschia and that money unfortunately, I, it was re-purposed for arms, nor was the reconstruction of the i.e. After the earthquake, the thread was then the most needed thing that was, and that's the money to defend the Chetino area, because that money was redeployed that money ended up in other people's pockets. I've never received a bill, I've asked countless times if it was the person who borrowed it. through the company that borrowed any money back, it never did. That's why we need to be careful when we talk about this, when money of course was needed for weapons more than solving earthquake problems because the Serbian army was at that time harald and, this is now the time when we remember, a high-end area, the Cetin end towards Peru, has endangered that people and that money is invested for weapons, I don't believe it would be so much damage. So when we talk about this first, we have to talk cautiously so that things don't happen the way they do, that there won't be that money who knows who left, but I have to mention those 2/3 of Croatia here. That's what I told the Prime Minister that we need to talk about Zagreb. Nothing less threatened than numerous elementary disasters 2/3 of Croatia. I can talk about its Cetina region, Dalmatia, Dalmatia, it's a forgotten desert land, Lika, there's no one, empty space, empty hearth, it's also a topic where you need a special law on mountainous and mountainous areas, a new law not make-up law that they've brought under then under pressure or for undeveloped areas. We have a terrible demographic downturn in 2/3 of Croatia out of Zagreb. I am the first to be solid with Zagreb, but I call on the public, your parliamentary representatives and the government to look at what happens to the promised projects, examples of my Dalmatia. Three years ago, projects were promised for the Split-Dalmatia County 2 billion kuna before the local elections, so far nothing has been invested or done, zero kuna. That's true in Slavonia, and that's true. I know that this is the law on Zagreb and the surrounding area in case of earthquakes, we have down there and fires and various threats, we have people leaving because of a number of problems, we have a sense of people being threatened down because of migrants, here the other day a migrant captured with the gun of an elderly man for several hours to lead him to certain roads, to certain villages, etc. Let's not just think that Zagreb is Croatia, 2/3 of Croatia have a worse threat than bad policies but Zagreb, believe me. Croatia is demographically empty and I call here as we speak about Zagreb and we are in solidarity and towards the burned country 2/3 of Croatia solidarity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3978	Next individual debate, distinguished representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3979	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. It has been said many times that this law should have been passed before. Unfortunately, however, this has not happened, and it is now necessary not to waste words or energy, but to make sure that the law is as good as possible and as possible for the benefit of citizens and citizens of this city, damaged by the earthquake. However, it is doubtful how possible this will be when we have before us a law that is so unambitious. We have talked about this many times today, but this law does not consider the future and future development of the city of Zagreb, but focuses on the restoration of status, or the status quo that it was before the earthquake. That's not good. It is not good for Croatia, it is not good for Zagreb, it is not good for citizens, it is not good for the government of the Republic of Croatia. And that should change. However, I do not see how it is possible to do so now that the government that was to go in this direction is unable to make a decision on how it will specifically spend the almost 90m euros it has received from the EU so far. Neither that nor that we know in which way they will invest. There are no concrete decisions, and for example, the school year begins and children will not be able to attend their schools. However, and this is also our obligation in each other's law reading, I will try to make a few concrete proposals that I will then back up to the amendments and propose a course for how to fix the law. Well, I'm on my way. First, the Council for Reconstruction. The Council for Reconstruction is an extremely important body that participates in the development of a key document, which is a programme of measures. That body must be appointed by the Parliament. This body must be supervised by the Parliament, which is why I propose that the law be changed in a way that the Parliament appoints a Council, that the Parliament has the right to debate and decide on the annual report on the work of the Parliament, and also, I also point to illogicality. If we have representatives of employers, then we must have representatives of the workers in the council. If we have representatives of the Chamber of Commerce, then we must have representatives of the Chamber of Commerce in the council. Otherwise, it is completely unclear what were the criteria for the assembly of the Parliament. Councils, excuse me. And that has to change. Next, social criteria. It's a good thing he's got it. There's no dispute about that. It's a good thing he's got it. However, in the manner prescribed, he is not righteous. The person who has received 4 thousand kunas will get everything, and the person who makes 4 001 kuna, nothing. That, colleagues and colleagues, is not fair. It's not fair and it can't work. Therefore, I propose that social criteria be divided into classes and that even those who cross a certain step, as we determine it through the debate and through the vote on this law, recognise at least a fraction, not necessarily a full amount of 20%, but a 15%, someone who has a little more property or a 10% receipt, etc. In this way, we will ensure that the social criterion meets the main purpose for which it has always been included in some regulation, which is solidarity and justice. Speaking of solidarity and justice, one group in this law is completely neglected and pushed to the margin. These are, uh, respected colleagues and colleagues, protected tenants. They are not protected by this law in any way. I therefore propose that the law be changed in a way that ensures the permanent care of protected tenants while the renovation takes place and to ensure the freezing of the rent growth at the same time. In this way, people who are already in a difficult situation because of changes to the Law on Renting Apartments, at least here in Zagreb and at least those who have suffered from the earthquake, will be protected as much as possible. And let me ask you a technical question. It's a mortgage. The mortgage in this law is not clearly prescribed and arranged enough. It is quite unclear how it is entered in land books, and it is also unclear to which specific parts are entered, so I suggest that I make it clear that the mortgage is entered exclusively into those specific parts or those of the persons who have not provided their funds. In a situation where people will have to provide money and to rebuild their apartments, the interior they will normally provide through loans, such a provision is necessary because otherwise there will be no renewal. In short, this law No matter what he's going in the wrong direction, it can still be improved on whether or not you're going to adopt the amendments will depend on my consent to vote for him. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3980	Thank you. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 14.03 HOURS]] Next individual debate, distinguished representative Grozdana Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3982	Dear Vice-President of the HS, respected representatives of the ministry and government. Here, I will also refer briefly to this second reading of this proposal, the final proposal of the Law on the restoration of earthquake-damaged buildings in the City of Zagreb, Krapina-Zagorje County and Zagreb County. When we remember that this is the period when it happened and when we see what the complexity is, in fact, and the amount of damaged buildings, then we must say that it is very important to pass this right now and to pass a law that will make it possible to restore the building thoroughly and quality, but not only the building, that it happens in a better and more quality coverage and that it is also very transparent. We know that more than 42,000 requests were received because of the damages that took place in this area, and that there was also a need to ensure quality evaluations during that period and that all experts who were at the head of the construction school and architecture were involved in doing so and that only in the area of the city of Zagreb over 24 thousand buildings were examined, where, as you saw, around 1300 were completely unusable. In addition, we must say that in the area of Krapina-Zagorska and Zagreb County there are mainly major damages on buildings, i.e. in private and private houses, as well as in the area of the City of Zagreb in the epicenter that was in Markuševec. It is also very important to note that, in addition to this, an awful lot of injuries to schools, colleges, institutes, hospitals and all other buildings needed for public purposes, and that is what makes this whole situation much more difficult. I will look back on the funding itself because this period or short is the time where it is mentioned in Art. Article 5 6. In fact, the way in which the buildings themselves were financed and renovated was already said to provide 60% in the state budget for the first real estate, the City of Zagreb 20% and the owners 20%. What was adopted in the last first reading, after the first reading, that if there is another building or property, then the owner co-finances 50%, or co-owners, which is very good. It is also important to note that there are buildings that have lost mechanical resistance and they must be removed and this removal goes primarily and is burdened by state budget funds. It is also important to say that the co-owner should be co-financed and paid in a fund belonging to the amount, and if that is not done then, the mortgage is also done and thus it is ensured that the funds provided by the Republic of Croatia and the County are nevertheless financed, that the part of the funds should be returned if the sale of these properties occurs. In the note too, it exists in art. 6, where the social criterion is taken into account, that if the owner or co-owner of the property is sold within 5 years, it is also obliged to pay that corresponding amount. It is also very important that this social category is helped in this way by many who have suffered from this severe earthquake. I think this bill is good and that with all the accompanying documents and The rules will make him even better. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3983	Thank you. The next debate is the individual distinguished representative Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3984	Good afternoon, everyone. First of all, we welcome the Prime Minister and Government's decision to include the social criteria in the new bill. We felt and felt from the very beginning that the fundamental task of the law was to achieve the idea of justice and equality. What is important is that we have formulated this requirement, in form, to ask that the costs are fully financed according to income or property censorship and that the state fully stands behind those who, therefore, do not have the possibility of restoring. The final bill, as you know, includes both income and property censorship. Thus, co-financing will be freed from those whose monthly income does not exceed 4 thousand kuna and who do not have a total value of more than 200 thousand kuna. Some say it's not enough, some say it's too much. Some complain that it is about Zagreb, which is a relatively rich city. But why is the introduction of a social criterion important for this law as well as for all laws of a similar type significant? People are out of work, we have one of the lowest employment rates in Europe, we are in a dangerous state because of the crown we saw and here in the courtroom. Since November, people have been threatened by the exercise and by the fact that special conditions and circumstances have expired that allow them to block the performance, it is estimated that as early as November 1st, about 400,000 executions will take place in one week. In other words, in Zagreb as a whole, we can say that people walking down the street are unemployed, that they are broken houses, that they are in a situation of peril every fourth we meet on the street. In this sense, we can say that Zagreb is a richer city, but we are certainly not in a good situation. This year, or last year, we unfortunately managed to reach the very top of a scale of material deprivation, or indicators affecting the quality of life of households. When we talk about the social criteria, that's why it's a central problem. So, to give you an example of over 50% of people can't settle in households unexpected financial expenditure. More than 50% of the people can't take a week off from their city. 17% are delayed by paying their bills due to financial difficulties, one of these more drastic examples when the statistics are reportedly, things sound quite dry but this information may be noticeable that in fact over 10% of people cannot afford each other a meal containing meat, chicken, so fish or some vegetarian equivalent. 7.7% cannot afford proper heating in the coldest months, I must say that this is not the worst percentage when we look at Macedonia, things are even worse, as we go, here's the example, Macedonia is very high on the Doing business scale, over half the population can't afford heating, I'm afraid that we too will in this direction very good entrepreneurial climate but very weak status for the social majority. So, I welcome, above all, the introduction of property and income censorship, but we express concern about the potential cause of major corruption through Article. Paragraph 6 which only we warn again, a law which allows for the co-financing of the renewal of business premises in which it is said to carry out economic activity, without criteria which are business entities and in which the amount will be co-financed by these business buildings. Everything is derivated by the State Aid Act, which of course does not have, in itself neither by its character nor by its social criteria, nor by the social benefit criteria, so we can expect that owners who have multimillion-dollar profits will be financed fully maybe because here we do not even have that percentage in which the percentage is co-financed and that economic activity can literally be the activity of the bookies, so it would not be the first time that the state is financing bookies. So a very cool item is this article, they don't determine in any proportion of funding for reconstruction, so we didn't even define these private persons, we hope it's not some deal on the Bandic-Plenkovic line by which the state will finance similar owners of the firm, we asked that question yesterday on the Legislator's Committee, we didn't get an answer, it was also responsible in the first reading That it won't be 80%, but it doesn't say it in the law. [[Santer Invader: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3985	Next debate, distinguished representative Darko Klasic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3986	Thank you, Honorable Vice President of the Parliament, distinguished fellow MPs and MPs. Before the earthquake itself, large parts of the city center were exposed for decades to the collapse and non-preservation and desolation, and this was the additional cause of these major damages and damages during the earthquake in Zagreb, and this restoration is an equal opportunity for us to revitalise the capital. I'm going to continue with proposals that I haven't been able to make on behalf of the club, and I think they should be incorporated into the proposed law. One of these is in art. 13rd paragraph 3 relating to the expert advice for restoration, I do not know what the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and the Croatian Employers' Association is here on the expert board, perhaps because of a clean... two unnecessary organizations in matters of restoration, someone's lobbying or interest perhaps and there's not a single sociologist... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] or an urban sociologist in the whole process that deals with reconstruction is present at the already mentioned Institute for the Reconstruction of Dubrovnik with a plan to manage the city of Dubrovnik's monumental heritage and I think it would be desirable to apply the same thing in Zagreb and from art. The 13th paragraph 3 shall be deleted by representatives of the HUP and the HGK as there is no need for this, perhaps before it was professionally as we have seen, the Chamber of crafts which may be far more appropriate. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 6th, what I have actually had in my eye is the visible best intention of the promoter and I believe that, apart from the very height of the income, the scale and other significant assets, other properties, the saving of motor vehicles and vessels whose total value does not exceed £200,000, it is unreal because we cannot consider persons with social conditions for the restoration that they possess other assets in this amount, it seems to me that there is a little too much raised scale, that the state here is actually carrying a complete renovation and county. Article 1 is also replaced by the following: 6 and indent 1st, 2nd and 3rd, all of those exceptions may, after applying for an end, make it difficult to restore documents and I think that should define the time limit for proving the property situation, from the submission of requests for renewal of competent services. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3987	Thank you. Next debate, the esteemed representative of Vesna Nadj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3988	Dear Vice-President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, although this final bill shows significant improvements and norms in relation to the text in the first reading, in particular as regards the introduction of social criteria or income and property censorship, law enforcement is still left to normise through sublegal acts adopted by the Registrar and through the programme of measures and reconstruction activities brought by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, so without debate on HS and HS control. It is therefore very important to respect the principle of transparency for the public to be informed of the cost of the funds, the way in which they are refurbished, and not just quarterlyly as proposed in the provision of the Article. 5th century 12th of the final draft of the law, if the ministry regularly and fully enters network application data, they can be available in real time of entry, not only quarterlyly. Thus, the deadline of 30 days from the date of entry into force of the law on which the resolution minister should adopt a Regulation on the more detailed content and technical elements of the reconstruction project, which would mean that this Regulation is actually in the final phase, and I doubt that since all administrative and professional capacities of the resolution ministry have certainly been engaged in the drafting of the text of the final draft law and the reply to the comments of the representatives given in the debate. Also in art. The 58rd and 4th final draft of the law states that the ministry is obliged to propose to the government the first programme of measures and reconstruction activities within 30 days of the date of entry into force of the law, and the government is obliged to adopt the programme within 15 days of the date of the adoption of the programme. This will certainly be difficult to implement in view of the complexity of the problem, i.e. it will be feasible if the measures programmes are put in place, which would be unacceptable and far-reachingly harmful. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. The 6th final draft of the law is prescribed with an income asset price for the release from payment of funds for The question is whether owners or co-owners did not have other significant assets on 22 March 2020 or other real estate, motor vehicles and vessels whose total value exceeds 200.000 kn which is subject to the relevant confirmation and issue a written statement certified by the notary. What does the proper confirmation mean? Is that an estimate of a car or a vessel to be paid by the owners? In addition, if a car or vessel is of higher value after 22 March 2020, it is apparent that no consideration has been given and that the provision has been unspecified and unimplementable. In addition, why are only Croatian wartime wartime people from the Homeland War freed from payment of construction funds, as well as the construction of replacement family houses, why not volunteers of the Homeland War who went first to the Homeland War, in defense of the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia? Why not the civilian disabled of the Homeland War, or was the ministry of resolution manifested? What about other people with large percentages of disability? The provision is deeply unfair. According to Art. 7th, 8th and 9th owners and co-owners of buildings and family houses are obliged to provide in reserves or to pay before the start of the works 20% of the funds on the account of the Reconstruction Fund, and they are not guaranteed to complete the renovations, so the question is who will and why not, who will not, why not pay those funds at the beginning or during the renovation? On the other hand, according to Art. The amount of cash aid following the completion of the renewal decision shall be determined by the Ministry by means of a decision to pay for the financial assistance in accordance with the programme of measures. Art. 29th century 1. The size of the replacement family house, which is built in a particular case, depends on the number of persons who lived and had a registered residence or residence in the removed house at the time of the accident. 1st century of the 1st century of this law. So if at the moment of the earthquake they had tenants who had a place in the removed house and they would be included in the number of persons who lived in the removed house. The big problem remains the inability of individual, favourable loans to citizens to co-finance the renovation of buildings or houses, with some co-owners not paying the reserve and not agreeing to the renovation. The government should agree with the HBOR favourable loans for citizens whose properties are damaged by an earthquake or otherwise there will be no possibility of financing the reconstruction. Therefore, the final draft of the law is better, but it is still inconclusive, unspeakable, unfair and clearly not respected, it has not passed a serious analysis of other resolution ministries and will therefore be difficult to implement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3989	Next debate, distinguished representative Marijana Puljak, Petir, Marijana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3990	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, the esteemed representatives of the promoters, the esteemed colleagues and colleagues. It has proved to be good that this law has not been adopted hastily because, through a broader debate for which reasonable time has been left, a solution that sought to reconcile on one side the objectives of this law undisputedly involve the rapid and effective restoration of buildings and the interests of the property owners on the other hand in such a way that they are allowed to carry out a full renewal if they are obliged to settle the difference between the total renewal and the state itself. The devastation caused by the devastating earthquake has damaged more than 25,000 buildings and caused damage to more than 86 billion kunas across individual frameworks and demands state intervention. In addition, according to the basic provisions of our constitution, the Republic of Croatia is also a social state. According to this law, owners are obliged to participate in the financing of renovations by transposing the constitutional provision under which they are bound, and by embedding social criteria into the law, which was also my proposal and a proposal for a few first-readers, it was also taken into account that the most socially vulnerable were freed from participation in financing. The construction reconstruction will also be fully financed for people with disabilities in the Homeland War, as well as social care users receiving support for maintenance. I also suggest that the possibility be considered to extend this provision to all persons with disabilities, and that the renovation of buildings should take care of their accessibility to persons with disabilities. There is no need to forget the public interest that this law protects in the way of rebuilding the buildings, which is that only the construction of buildings is organized, which affects mechanics, resilience and stability, through the protection of life and the health of the users of buildings and passersby themselves. Other parts of the building and crafts work are left to the owners to finance them themselves. There is no need to ignore the fact that the reconstruction can be a rescue for a whole series of small builders and craftsmen from all over Croatia, but in order to prevent any abuse, I consider it important to establish a framework beyond which the costs of rebuilding the construction must not go, so that consumers do not exceed real prices and cover other costs, which would be contrary to public interest. Therefore, I would like to ask for clarification of the applicant in what way will this potential problem be dealt with specifically? The financial structure is prescribed in an appropriate form, starting with the fact that the state, the unit of the regional self-government and the owners should bear the burden of reconstruction according to their capabilities. It is important to ensure maximum transparency and financial control, and it is a good thing that the Law requires the Ministry and refurbishment holder to regularly and fully inform the public about the activities and costs of the renovation, and that data on the spending of all the refurbishment holders will be published on the network application of the Ministry. It is also good that the state has secured its investment in reconstruction so that public money is not refurbished and that the owner sells real estate without any foam. I would like to draw attention to the fact that for cases where owners do not participate financially, but because of social criteria they are implemented in 100% of the amount of public money, it is not clear until the end, in Article 6, paragraph 2, which is the corresponding amount that the owner should repay if he sells the renovated real estate within a short period of five years, and I would also ask for a concrete response from the applicant. As the government adopted a Decision on the financing of the rent of residential care of housing owners and houses whose homes died in the earthquake and the Ministry of State Property received 464 requests, of which 275 more people were temporarily placed in the house, due to the start of the new academic year, I believe it is indeed a priority to find a new temporary accommodation for all who can't stay in their homes as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3991	Thank you. Next individual debate, distinguished representative Marijana Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3992	I thank the esteemed chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the Club, we will propose 30 amendments to these Laws, part of these amendments were proposed by professional associations and societies, such as the Society of Architects of the City of Zagreb and other associations, and I would like to say that therefore the number of amendments that everyone here has announced behind this speaker is actually talking about how much trouble there is in this Act. Its most important deficiency is the lack of will to restore it thoroughly according to the world's highest standards, and to use the reconstruction to build Zagreb as a modern European metropolis of the 21st and 22nd centuries. Zagreb is the capital of Croatia, a mirror of one country, a mirror of our country and for its fate are interested not only in the citizens of Zagreb, but all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. This Law should be called the Emergency Recovery Act, through which only emergency cases would be resolved with a minimum spending of public funds. A parallel but very fast and efficient discussion with citizens and the profession of the future of Zagreb should be conducted. The result of this debate was supposed to be a plan for the future development of Zagreb and then a new law that would speed it up, make it simpler, more efficient. The most important consequence of such a law should be a thorough renewal of the City, a reconstruction that should not only be a recovery of the damage caused by this earthquake but even more prevention of the disaster by the next earthquake or by some other elemental accident, while the restoration should also be an opportunity for a planned urban restoration. For one example, to show, so instead of public administration buildings in the city center, a national administrative centre could be built somewhere on the periphery or moved to it by all ministries, agencies, government, parliament. The buildings in the centre would receive other purposes such as galleries, museums and similar public purposes, and part could be privatised and thus the funds collected could be invested in the reconstruction of the City. Similarly, some universities in the city center were able to move to a planned Borongai university campus modelled by many of the world’s cities that realised similar projects. Through a serious comprehensive reconstruction should give the opportunity to rebuild and to look intact, but lasting buildings that can inhale new life and thus offer current owners an increase in the value of their properties. A special note of the profession for this Act, that a completely unnecessary parallel system of reconstruction projects was introduced instead of regular, regular legislation or documentation in the ordinary legislation of the main implementation project, was therefore not necessary to introduce this parallel system but to speed up existing procedures and procedures. This introduces future and unnecessary legal uncertainty. Also, instead of just one model in the proposed Co-financing Act 60-20-20, I would say with an intolerable ease of public spending could have been other models that would activate other funds and either save them publicly, or spend them more meaningfully, for example, selling buildings or apartments in state or city property before any personal, and damaged, and unscathed, and for obtaining funds, then building this unique national administrative centre. Investors and customers could renovate damaged buildings themselves according to the purpose they set along with the profession. The sale of city dwellings by cities that are not used for urban activities, but for small money, they were issued for small money by various privileged tenants for associations, foundations, associations, political parties and others, where sharing and use of space could be much more efficient and productive. The city of Zagreb could help some owners and investors more by approving the re-use of attics in a residential or other more quality categorized space, by helping co-owners to be granted part of the addition of additional floors or the activation of other potential buildings of their courtyards for public purposes, which also generates additional value. Finally, we need to be solid and just, both can be achieved, so it is important to be solid, help the emergency situation, but also to be just and give a similar opportunity to all Croatian citizens to protect their properties from natural disasters to the world's best standards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3993	The next individual debate is distinguished representative Michel Jaksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3994	Dear Chairman, colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs, good afternoon, nice greeting to all and what I must say at the very beginning of this individual debate, when we began to discuss the Law on the Reconstruction of Zagreb, we all agreed that we wanted a single, fair, quality Law on the Reconstruction of Zagreb. The autumn has arrived, all that has been delayed now is slowly coming up and what we can see from the debate today, and also in the preparation of the amendments that have been written as many times as we have heard in the debates in all clubs, we can say that we have obviously not come from the consensus so far and the question is how many more steps we will have to take to get to it if there is going to be a will. What has personally puzzled me is the interview of Minister Horvat from this weekend where several claims have been made, several statements that are in disproportion with themselves and which are in proportion to everything that has been said in the past 6 months when it has been said we will not immediately pass the law, let's go before the parliamentary elections, we need a new parliamentary majority in order to be able to pass a new law that will not only be the Law on the restoration of Zagreb but will be a kind of new Croatian new deal that will offer a new framework for the future development of Zagreb, and since Zagreb is our capital and, of course, expected to reflect and transfer to the Republic of Croatia. Minister Horvat said in his interview that he calls on all those citizens who themselves want to start rebuilding their facilities to start doing so and that the state will pay them back as soon as the conditions are obtained. It says that obviously even at the 9th month we don't have a clear attitude, we don't have a clear law and we don't have a clear diagram of how it's going to be restored because if we had it, we wouldn't tell people, so we're going to get in the car when the time comes. The second thing, clearly and clearly, is that we still don't have the knowledge of how damaged this building is and how many of them are going to be rebuilding, as we have no clear knowledge or final inventory of how much funds we're going to need. We got the same through that interview inexcusable explanation we have so far secured cca 10 billion kuna, here mentioned by colleague Petir, the stories are that it will take 86, and then each of us can set up, where, and when we're going to push 76 billion kuna and what it says to all those who may be waiting in Flowers today to rebuild their building and their apartment. What also saddens me in this version of the law that is being debated today, which is obvious that we are very close to being overcome by the construction lobby, unfortunately in the City of Zagreb many times this meant that the godfathers prevailed at the end, it was obvious that it was headed in the direction that we were going to patch up as fast as possible and what could be said, before the local elections, that something was done, and that all the other professions, starting from the architectural, urbanistic, art historians were absolutely pushed aside. I'm personally sorry because it's said to be a major crisis is an opportunity. This crown, ultimately, and this earthquake is a major crisis, is a major blow, but it could also be a great opportunity. A great opportunity to show through the reconstruction of Zagreb that we are ready to take a real step in the 21st century and the capital of Croatia, thus and throughout Croatia, that we are ready to offer a new development framework, a new developmental form, the new appearance of the City of Zagreb. We all know together how many urban and traffic problems we have in the city of Zagreb, everything that has been alerted by an independent profession for years, unfortunately we have not chosen this path, and it is obvious that we have again chosen a path that slowly, but certainly starts to smell of building non-transparentity, patching up holes, and history has taught us that as soon as we talk about the construction lobby in the City of Zagreb, that it usually takes some absolutely other proportions and absolutely other actions for which we do not have time or need to discuss, I think we all know very well. It would be a shame if the opportunity where we could find a consensus, where we could start a new development cycle in the life of the City of Zagreb and Croatia is not taken advantage of again, but of this chance, and let the money be released by strange channels with certain lobbyes which, unfortunately, Zagreb has been remated today.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3995	Thank you. We have a few replicas. Hold on, the first honorary representative of Anka Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3996	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague, so you mentioned in your opening statement of consensus, that's a great word, but the word we experience in different ways. So, Prime Minister Plenkovic is experiencing this word in a way that he can get as many votes as possible from this law, and we, I think, are experiencing you in a way that we see this openness, that transparency, how this law will be implemented. The basic problem with this law is that he's bad. What he is at this point inconclusive, that is, the basic problem is next. Today the building has a green sticker. Someone can come in and do an analysis and say it's not so green anymore but that they're still constructive. And it will come, it will go according to this law, and the neighbor will not. So there are no criteria, it's not clear what it's doing, but it's clear that it's going to work on very very suspicious terms and in a way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3997	I also talked about potential doubts and bypassing the profession and a potentially missed chance of opening a new development cycle in the life of Zagreb and Croatia in my individual debate. What I would like to do personally, and I want to believe that we will have the strength to bring the Law on the Reconstruction of Zagreb by consensus. So, not in the way you've led it, to be seen by the Prime Minister, Plenkovic, how much will be the hand, but to find a model for all hands to be in the air. I think that everyone sitting in this assembly is intended to be adequate and to bring everyone together, because what will be better in Zagreb and the surrounding area, of course it will be better for the rest of Croatia because Zagreb and is the most economically strong unit in this Republic is that we all go forward together in one transparent, open, developmental framework and model. There's still a chance, I hope there's a way that we all want it to go in the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3998	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u3999	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Jaksic, you said nice and you talk about consensus. I've faced in this assembly many times that HDZ is a consensus, and you know what HDZ is a consensus? To support everything they want. And you might agree to that in this case, because it is Zagreb. But what you said, and that's what hurts me the most, and the problem with this proposal is, there's no vision of the future. We have a lot of problems with urban, transport, infrastructure in the city of Zagreb where more significant shifts have not been made in the past 20 years. This was a chance to think more deeply and thoroughly about how the city will develop further, how we will solve these problems because this law only wants to solve because this law only wants to bring Zagreb back to a state before the earthquake which was not ideal, and then we have now failed to think about the future, but it is typically for the Croatian government to think only about ad hoc solutions because local elections are going, and that is what is most important.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u4000	We absolutely agree in the debate on the future and I appeal once again, and I hope that one look will prevail in the future and we will take this opportunity to do everything we have ever resented in life in Zagreb, that we have resented the very functioning of the city of Zagreb when we talk about traffic and urbanism and non-transparentity, that we will do our best to take advantage of this earthquake, as an opportunity, not only to patch up what has been shaken and what needs to be restored, but to give Zagreb a new absolute picture and that Zagreb will get the look of a European capital that will be the trigger for the future and even better, even more developed Croatia in the 21st century. Now that word consensus is rolling, I'm going to repeat that word consensus in the debates indefinitely, so somebody's going to eventually give in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u4001	Thank you. The next replica, distinguished representative Zeljko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u4002	Dear Representative, here I am listening to debates and parties that have a majority and a party that is in opposition, or parties that are in opposition and we listen and we hear very conflicting views. On the one hand, Mr. Plenkovic and most of the party are saying that everything is okay, that we have no problems with the law, that everything is feasible, that anything can be done. On the other hand, here, we hear there's a lot of trouble. Among other things, you mentioned a problem with the money. You mentioned the problem that this money would be hard to win, so I'm asking what happens if that property is going to be sold, and the renovation doesn't start for 10 years. The fact is, some properties will be restored in maybe a year or two, and some in 10 or 15 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u4003	I stated in my debate that a clear hodogram is not visible, that clear deadlines are not visible, and when there is no and when we take our own stand that we will solve it in a kind of walk and in the course of time, it usually opens up space for something we call non-transparency and of course it is something that makes the citizens very concerned and creates a certain dissatisfaction. I understand Prime Minister Plenkovic here today, and in the debates so far, he praises and defends his bill. It is certain that he will do his best to adopt the law because it opens up a great opportunity for him, but I also hope that he will take advantage of this opportunity to find a consensus and to do so along with a profession which is now, in a certain way, bypassing the best possible solution for the future of the development of the city of Zagreb, and not only to bring it down to patching holes. As much money as there is, but in a crisis, you have to see how to make ahead because, it's said, when you have it, it's asparagus, and in a crisis, you're thinking about how to develop and move forward.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u4004	The next replica, the esteemed representative of Martina Grman Kizivat.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u4005	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Jaksic, I have to get a hold of myself when you mention the construction lobby. Representative Petir mentioned that we do not have any costs related to the construction or reconstruction of the city of Zagreb. I must point out that through a conversation with the citizens of the city of Zagreb, they said that they pay the costs of those who currently finance themselves, at much higher prices. I would like to know what will happen to the citizens of the city of Zagreb who are now renewing their houses, apartments, etc., and we bring the coster or the costs related to the renovation at some real prices. Now the prices have gone to heaven. Second thing, you're talking about the city of Zagreb as a city, the metropolis of the 21st century. I've mentioned for the last time that until the infrastructure problem is solved, I'm afraid we'll still have the 21st century metropolis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u4006	That's why we're discussing and trying to find the best solution, but I think it's a responsibility on all of you sitting in this House, how to create the 21st century metropolis and how to move through it. When we talk about the construction sector itself and the construction operation, I absolutely agree with you, and that's why I stayed shocked, given that we were all unisonally defending even the decision not to bring Parliament and that we would bring it to the fall where it would be much more adequate, much more concise and much clearer much more transparent. When I read Minister Horvat's statement, that's if you're going alone or you want to go alone, that's what you're doing, and we're going to get involved somewhere, and somehow we're going to help you. It clearly says that only the ministry in these six months has done or done nothing, but it has remained before us for ten more days until the vote on this law, I hope that our amendments and amendments to our other colleagues and colleagues will be adopted, and I personally hope that there will be a few more amendments by the government once this debate is over.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u4007	Thank you. ... replicated representative Ivan Celic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u4008	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Jaksic. You spoke here as a top political theorist, you mentioned a vision of the future, you used some technical terms that are very often spoken. You were talking about how the profession didn't give a positive opinion, and I'm only going to give you one example. So, when it comes to concrete proposals, these concrete proposals have been implemented in this second reading, let's say the question of repairing the staircases that esteemed colleague Mrak Taritash has proposed, it has been adopted. The Architectural Associations, therefore, have said that the legislative framework for design is good, that the fundamental problems between first and second reading are the issue of funding, the issue of social balance, so I don't understand what you're talking about. The only thing I can say after your presentation is that the Croatian social democracy is in crisis.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u4009	Mr. Celic, I didn't expect you to understand what I was saying if I was talking from the aspect of someone who's mayor and who's directly won the election, you still haven't got it, so then you probably don't know how the city works and how an urban whole is developing and how it serves its citizens' services. You don't have that experience, you haven't got that election trust yet. And now, as mayor, I'm going to lay down absolutely like that to figure it out, it's not the same when you're rebuilding a school within a space or someone's neighborhood, and it's not the same when you're about to build an absolutely new school with a new hall and belonging objects that we're now in Koprivnica getting ready to do because when you're rebuilding something, it stays in those fixed frames and space, it's a little patchy, it's scratchy, it's painty, and when you're building something absolutely new, then you're still making an effort to make a step through communal infrastructure and through roads, and even building an absolutely new neighborhood and its vision along with the following economic housing facilities.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u4010	Time, thank you. Next individual debate, distinguished representative Anka Mrak Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u4011	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary with an associate, co-workers and colleagues. We have in our second reading a law defining how the damage caused by the 22 March earthquake on buildings will be restored, so we are discussing the full five months of the law. A lot of speakers before me have mentioned amendments, when you have so many amendments to one bill, when even those in position say we're going to give amendments, we're going to prepare amendments, I think there's a coalition partner who said that there are about a dozen amendments, there's something wrong. Now I'm going to try to speak words of some kind of operative or some kind of citizen. When you have a building and you have a problem on the building, you can solve it in three ways. One way is recovery, another way is reconstruction, and when you have a problem in a city in a block, then it's urban transformations. What's a recovery? Look at the little cracks that are in this assembly, and the cracks that are can be rescheduled in a way that cleans up the noise, that a little bit of a... rush, run and move on. What does reconstruction mean? We have these more serious cracks when you walk a little bit through this building then you see the arches, you see where some installations are then you go to the constructive part, you sort out the constructive part, and then you finish the story. And what does urban transformation mean? Urban transformation means added value. I've had a lot of years and some experience and all the time I'm saying I'm talking about who's a space planner and as an architect, when the law decided not to go right away but to wait, okay, the law could have gone like a lex specialis relatively fast and could've gone in a way to try to solve those urgent options or emergency things that are, and then it gave up, so it could've solved the dental walls, something else could've been solved. I thought okay, it's going to go into one whole reconstruction that's going to last for years, which can't be shorter, one way it's going to go from building public purpose, another it's going to be for family houses, the third model is going to be for multi-state houses, whether they have business content or not, but we're going to take a step. History is a teacher of life. In 1880, a major earthquake struck the City of Zagreb. The city of Zagreb was at that moment some small town on the edge of the Austro-Hungarian monarchy and from that the trouble was turned into an opportunity, the City of Zagreb became one of the largest construction sites in the Austro-Hungarian region, the best builders that were found were building in the City of Zagreb and the City of Zagreb had made one step towards the future, not to mention Shenou, who then as a representative even got pneumonia from which he died a year later, so in the way he lobbied. I expected such an opportunity with this law for the City of Zagreb. The city of Zagreb is the capital of the Republic of Croatia, according to the model by which it is done there is a model that can be used in other cities. And okay, and it's not even there at all, so it's neither problematic nor contentious that it lasts for years. You can't rebuild the assembly or the entire Assembly in a way that you can rebuild another building. As we are different here and as each of us is different in its appearance and in everything else they are so different and houses each have its own story but you can always put them in some gatherings and you can, as you can, especially women, especially men, especially depending on the age, so you can recognize different damages and different models. The problem with this law is, I don't think one law is carved into stone, for every law I experience it in a way, okay, we'll see where the problem is, so we'll solve this problem in step two or three. So I don't experience this law either, but what's the problem of this law, when the law is passed, when it asks you whether you're sitting on the left, right, or in the center, some citizens on the street, let me know, I'm in a house that's red, the house is property-legal, which I'm applying to, what kind of request should be, what do I need from the documentation, how will it be, what answer will you give? After you pass the law, you will adopt the law, which answer will you give? There's no answer to that. My people, the law in one piece must be operational, it's not this law and it's not going well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u4012	We have one replica, distinguished representative Marko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u4013	Dear MPs and colleagues, so I'm sorry to keep arguing in this House that we're late for something. No, we're not. We wanted this law to be complete, we wanted to ensure first that the Government restored emergency interventions, 141 million kunas were provided for dental walls both for roofs and water heaters. What we also wanted to do was to have a quality discussion in two readings in this House, so that we could adopt the law with as much consensus as possible. In the first reading and acts of the opposition, signals came, lacked social criteria, are now adopted. 25 amendments to the opposition here in the second reading have been adopted. Therefore, the government has proved responsible, has provided initial resources and now we want the largest consensus that will cost tens of billions of kuna. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u4014	Comrade Pavić, you obviously see this law and experience it in different ways, which is not unusual. I have absolutely no problem, and those colleagues who were in the previous Parliament's meeting know, when something was done right, I knew from this pay phone how to commend it and I told and I voted for it, and I said okay, this is just not good, this law doesn't give answers, this law is not operational. You'll go back to this assembly, you'll be back there in early 2021, you'll be doing some additions to the law because by this law you won't be able to do some things. That's what we're warning you, that's what we said in our first reading, that's what we said on committees. I don't know, like we're talking in different languages. So, each of you ask yourself a very simple question, do you have an answer when you get out of this assembly and ask some citizen what I have to give for a request that you can apply to this law, if you have answers to it. If you have an answer, then we solved the problem, if you don't, then we have a problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u4015	Time. Time, thank you. Next individual debate, distinguished representative Ivan Celic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u4016	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I do not think at all that I am as professional as the former Minister of Civil Engineering is measuring to talk about this legislative proposal but still as a representative coming from the city of Zagreb, I must say a few of my remarks and observations regarding this legislative proposal. So, after a total of 140 years, on March 22nd, Zagreb hit a devastating earthquake of the Magnitude 5.4 per Richter. In addition to the historic urban town of Zagreb, which is most discussed today and whose reconstruction will require the most significant financial resources, Zagreb's Prigorje has also suffered. The day after the devastating earthquake, together with the prime minister, I visited those parts of the city of Zagreb that resembled the war-torn areas of the 1990s, and I think that today Markusev, Vidovec, Čucherje, Graneshin, Kashina should also be mentioned here, so these are just some of the settlements that have suffered significant damage. In addition to the city districts of Gornji and Donji grad, parts of the city district of Maksimir, for example OS Bukovac, which is completely insatiable, is insatiable, so that students from the Bukovec area will have to go to other parts of the city of Zagreb or the town quarter of Chernomerec, so we have found ourselves at the same time in two extremely difficult crises, is one epidemic of the coronary virus and the other is a devastating earthquake and most of us have suffered a certain trauma, some of us are trauma. Some have quickly forgotten the trauma, acted as if it had not been, some still suffer certain psychological consequences of this trauma, and with the buildings, so some are more broken down, some are less broken but the earthquake has left a lasting scar and it will take a long time for us to get all citizens back to their homes, to return to their homes, and to return that sense of security that is important for overall well-being. There were many speeches about being late with the adoption of the law, the first extraordinary session of the Croatian Parliament in the 10th session was held on July 28th, today we started the second extraordinary session at which we discuss in the second reading, there were different comments and we can conclude that this legislative proposal has changed significantly between the two readings. What I have already mentioned, so if the opinion of architectural associations and institutions is read, they have concluded that there is no need to change the existing legislative framework for designing because it is good but an emphasis should be placed on funding and social balance. Of course, the biggest problem is who will finance it, how much it will cost, but there is no irrelevant fact of the issue of social sensitivity and justice and the introduction of social criteria is a big step towards the better in this legislative proposal. This legislative proposal can also be put in the context of the upcoming local elections primarily as regards the City of Zagreb in May 2021, and it is perfectly normal for both the position and the opposition in the Croatian Parliament but also in the City of Zagreb to put this topic in context, but I think we are all aware that in the four-year term, the project and the reconstruction process will not be completed and that such a system should be created which will be effective and which will lead to the real renewal of the City of Zagreb. Transparency on finance is somewhat well regulated in Article 5, where the Ministry's network application is also listed where the necessary data will be entered regularly and fully, which will quarterlyly publish data on the spending of the funds of all refurbishment holders. In addition to transparent financial management, transparent management of the entire reconstruction process is also important, and in this sense we as the Club of Representatives of the HDZ will submit an amendment in which we will ask that the Government of the Republic of Croatia submit an annual report on the effects of the implementation of this law because it is significant financial resources, it is about the restoration of the metropolis and I think it is important.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u4017	Thank you. We have two replicas. The first one is Anka's distinguished representative, Mrak Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u4018	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. In your line of work, you do things for people, and in my line of work, I basically do buildings and spatial planning, but for whom, for people. I care about this law, I speak with my heart and energy in my first reading, I speak now. I care about having the law, I care about rebuilding the city. It's the worst thing that can happen to a town when people leave. It's the worst thing that can happen to a city when the city's center leaves. At this point, according to estimates 20,000 citizens of the City of Zagreb no longer live in their apartments because they are somewhere else. And it's bad and it's wrong and it's not good, it's not good for any city, let alone for the capital of a country. So all these discussions that are in the sense of listen, make a law that will be the law for the citizens of the City of Zagreb and of course all those who have suffered from this earthquake. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u4019	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u4020	Dear colleague Mrak Taritas, I hope you understand that I spoke affirmably in favour of everything you say, so I understand and look at this situation of this earthquake which unfortunately took place in the City of Zagreb as an opportunity because if we competed with the census in 2001 and 2011 it is, for example, in the city district of Gornji Gradje Medvesčak in the Lower City, then the figures are almost 10,000 fewer inhabitants in those urban districts, which is also due to inadequate access to care towards the historic urban city of Zagreb. And that's why I welcome all of what you're saying, and I believe that the profession will integrate all of your concrete proposals, and it's already incorporated some of them, and I believe that, in the final proposal, it's probably going to be necessary to process it, to make some changes and complements, but we have to pass the law, and we have certain limits.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u4021	The next replica, distinguished representative Josip Saric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u4022	Dear counterpart Celic, I agree with you that the Croatian government will surely do through this law and correct all the bad experiences and failures that we have had in two major renovations. I come from Vukovar-Srijem County, which unfortunately survived two major renovations, one after the Homeland War when a third of Vukovar-Srijem County, and not only ours and Osijek-Baranja were occupied and destroyed and managed to make a good renovation. During that renovation there were plenty of gaps and shortcomings, unfortunately we had another renewal, it was a restoration after the flood in County of Posavina, there was no colleague Mrak Taritaš who was then a minister, also generally said good renewal, but also with a lot of failures. So I believe that these bad experiences and failures that we had in these two renovations that the Croatian government will in some way respect this process of reconstruction And don't let us have any such failures any further. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u4023	Dear counterpart Saric, in some ways we can refer to this area and the period from 2014 and floods destroyed areas and settlements of Vukovar-Srijem County. According to the people who live there, the renovation was good, quality, however, there are certain tails in terms of financing these populated areas and it is therefore very important to see in this legislative proposal, which is why I mentioned in Article 5 that there is transparent financial management that at any time through the network application developed by APIS is seen for each object as much as it is spent on an item.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u4024	Thank you. Next debate, distinguished MP Tomislav Tomašević.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u4025	I thank the Chairman for his words. I also welcome the representatives of the institutions, and I think we only have the Department of Construction here with us. I don't think I see anyone else. As far as I'm concerned, I won't repeat myself in relation to the things I said on behalf of the club in the debate. We are satisfied with the financial framework, satisfied with the social criteria, however, this institutional framework, and I say there is still nothing in this law but the institutional framework and the financial framework. Everything else is delegated to the programme of measures, everything else is delegated to the regulations which will be adopted by the RES, so that, in that sense, we can't discuss anything else or discuss. In that sense, I think you could have passed the law before because he's nothing special. It is still quite principled and there is nothing concrete we can say without the programme of measures. However, there are still some things that I think, regardless of the social criteria that make it, the law more just, there are still things that I think are unfair in the law itself. I'd like, uh, and my ministry colleagues to hear those arguments, I hope they will. One of these things is the construction of replacement family homes. In fact, we've now put it into law, i.e. you have put into law that replacement family houses can only be built if the owner of a house which has been torn down in an earthquake or which is to this extent damaged that it must be destroyed, there is no other property in the city of Zagreb, Zagreb County and Krapina-Zagorje County. So the criterion, the condition now in the law, so let's just put it in context a little bit more. If you have, for example, an apartment that is damaged in a building where a construction reconstruction should be restored, you will receive 80% of the aid from the state and the city. For the first real estate, and for every next real estate, you'll get 50%. So, for example, if you have 10 apartments, you get 80% for 1st apartment, and for 9 apartments you get 50%, the same owner. However, if you are the owner of a family home, which is torn down in an earthquake or to the extent that it has to be broken down, the replacement house will only be built if you do not have any real estate in this 3rd county, that is, the City of Zagreb and these 2 counties. It seems unfair to me. It seems unfair to me precisely because it puts people most damaged property, to the extent that they can't live in it right now, in an unfavourable position. So I think it would be more appropriate if then, if there was another one, look out, it could be a 25 square-square-garsonier, you've destroyed a 200 square-square house and you don't have any help, 0%, in that sense I think it would be fairer to go on a more or less similar model of how we went for apartments. So it's going to be a model to replace it, meaning building a replacement family house is funding it means the same as for others, it means 80%, that 20% must be given by the private owner, and then for other properties, if damaged, then 50% as for the apartments, and if they're not, they're not. Furthermore, what I think it is, that it's not just a problem of implementation, and I say again, the law is a framework, implementation will be in a programme of measures that we don't know what will be. It'll be in a rulebook we don't know what it'll be like. It'll be based on money we don't know how many will be. In the first year, in the second, third, fourth, we don't know any of that. If there is already a programme of measures, which brings the Government to the ministry's proposal, and not the fund at least, according to us, the institution, I think that the programme should see how the measure should be, and that it improves especially the City of Zagreb and the surrounding area, and not just restores it to its original state. It means how to monitor and protect the environment, especially, for example, around energy recovery, but also to monitor environmental protection around other examples, measures, means you have a decision to co-finance condensation boilers, however, there are other methods that can be heated in the city in the 21st century, which are used by renewable energy sources, which are used by some heat cranes, which is not everything. It doesn't have to be a condensation boiler, it can be some kind of central heat devices that then, on some palettes or some other renewable energy choices, also work. They don't have to be classic gas and condensation boilers. It's not there. So such things, according to such principles, should also, according to us, be improved by the law and the programme of measures that follow from it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u4026	Time. Next individual debate, distinguished representative Sandra Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u4027	Well, I'm going to continue on my colleague Tomašević and I'm going to continue actually with design problems, institutional implementation design. So what's bothering us is actually how this implementation is defined by law and what counterpart Anka Mrak-Taritash said before, so can the law make it clear to the citizens where the procedure begins, where it ends, in which deadlines and what documentation we need for it. What we have seen is that the whole process has been fragmented at this point between several institutions. What we proposed in the first reading is that the whole process, the whole procedure, including the production of project documentation, the adoption of a solution on reconstruction, the place where the request for renewal is submitted, etc. and then the coordination of works performers, therefore, public works, public procurement for the performance of works, etc., takes place in one central institution and we suggested that it be the Institute for Reconstruction of Zagreb and the Environment. It doesn't have to be called the Bureau, it can be called the fund, it can be called Pero, it doesn't matter. What is crucial is that in design it is one institution that manages the whole process so as not to have those situations that citizens call and that each time they move them to another institution, that they transfer responsibility and that in the end they don't really know where their case is stuck. Why is it still important to be one central body that manages the whole and coordinates the whole reconstruction? For the reason that we have asked that, just as many other representatives have pointed out today, that the reconstruction actually contributes to the new modernisation of the city and that we are actually piloting through the renovation a new kind of urbanism in Croatia, an urbanism that is no longer available in the City of Zagreb, but it is not in other cities or other cities, the cities of Croatia. For this reason, we will also propose an amendment to take particular account of the principles and rules of urbanism, the protection of cultural heritage, the protection of public interest, the protection of the environment and of energy efficiency, and universal design and accessibility, as we must also view this as an opportunity to finally meet the criteria and standards that we have adopted ourselves in our laws, for example, energy efficiency and accessibility issues for people with disabilities. We also ask that the law define and correct some kind of illogicality. For example, when it comes to recovery, then we talk about these co-financing ratios 60:20:20, and when we talk about repairs, we don't talk about co-financing and co-financing rights, but suddenly we start talking about financial assistance. So we ask that in the law, to law on repairs that people have done mostly themselves, and these are repairs of dental walls, chimneys, etc., which were necessary to even move into apartments, that they also co-financed according to model 60:20. And so co-financing can also be given retroactively and that, of course, 60% or 20 of this part of the aid that the citizens have already received is rejected. We think it would be right and it would be appropriate. We would also like to point out that citizens are in a great deal of trouble from literally extorting individual building managers, and in particular, I will mention in this case that as a building manager, they are giving credit to some bank for renovations, and that citizens in the Loan Treaty are asking citizens 3 to 3.5% for the manipulative costs of their 3.5% of that loan, these are huge funds. Since we have defined in the law that the job of refurbishment is a business of regular administration, we believe that the law also requires that building managers should not be specifically charged, therefore additionally and especially not from the funds intended to be refurbished take part in order to cover their alleged operational costs. So that's something we actually think is on the verge of the law. We also have to sort of prevent this part of what's going on, which actually falls under me under the definition of a loan agreement under the Penal Code, which is that the prices of certain works have increased by 400%. So, as we said we would prescribe the maximum cost of work for the whole renovation, construction reconstruction, etc., so we must also prescribe the maximum cost of work for repair costs, so the recovery of chimneys, making documentation for it, etc., because that is where citizens are already robbed. And finally, of course I remind you we're still asking to establish supervision, independent control of spending funds to make citizens could trust that their resources are spent really on restoration. [[Intruder: Time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u4028	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Damir Bakic. There's a mask left, Your Honor. Your mask is here.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u4029	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representatives of the government. At first I would like to, I would also like to welcome, like my colleagues earlier, the two most important changes we see in this, in this bill, in relation to its original version, the two amendments that are particularly important to us, which we have already advocated in the first reading, which is the introduction of social criteria and that is, of course, the introduction of supervisory mechanisms, exactly what my colleague Bencic said at the end of her presentation. Of course, especially when we talk about supervisory mechanisms and improving transparency in the implementation of this law, there is space and need for much more, much progress and amendments in this respect, of course, we will submit. But besides that, there's still a lot of inadequacy or lack or lack of clarity, inaccuracy, I'd say even irregularities and some of those shortcomings I'll point out now. Of course, all of them need to be removed in order to make this law functional, functional, and in order for it to actually be enforceable. First of all, we believe that in the definition of complete renovation of the building it is necessary to include basic requirements on the building within the meaning of the Construction Act. Especially when we talk about the complete restoration of public-purpose buildings here, we mean the basic requirement number 4 that speaks of security and accessibility from the aspect, thus allowing access to all public-purpose buildings for persons with disabilities. Another thing I would like to warn you about is that it is necessary to remove all those provisions behind the bill where measures are actually foreseen that the programmes intervene with the technical regulation. So, the technical regulations are described, described the character of procedures for certain levels of renewal and we think there is no need to be in certain articles of the law, such as Art. 3 or art. 16th, therefore, provides that measures are to be intervened in the programmes in the content which is already in fact set out in the technical, technical regulation. Furthermore, we also believe that it is necessary to specify the provisions of Article. 41st to rebuild the building for public purposes. As my colleague Bencic said, I will again point out, it is also necessary to specify the provisions of the article. 35. which speak of co-financing of those works already done because they had to be done, and we simply believe that everything in this respect must be brought into line with the provisions, provisions of this Act, or of this Proposal for a Law within the meaning of Articles 5 and 3. There are also, of course, a number of other comments, and I will mention here a rather large terminologyal confusion that is somehow going through the whole of the Law, so the perfectly precise character of these all levels of renewal listed in the technical regulation is perfectly precise in Article 16 of this Law. However, in all other articles, in fact, when we talk about restoration, this syntagma of reconstruction or reconstruction is used fairly freely, quite literaryly, and it is very, very important to be particularly precise in view of the levels that, in which, the levels of reconstruction of which individual buildings will depend on their condition and the damage to the structure will be subjected. And finally, just one more thing that I particularly care about at this point, which I particularly care about to warn you about, we have already intervened in the first reading on the composition of expert advice, we have suggested that the composition of expert advice be enriched by some other experts, of course, whose expertise is needed in that body, we have advocated that the expert advice be extended to some of the colleagues or colleagues of seismologists, this requirement is partially respected in relation to the proposed original legal text, in this final bill proposal therefore we have a provision to be included in this advice by one of the colleagues of seismologists, however, it is simply wrong to say that institution, I would repeat once again with this speaker, the institution to be referred to is the Natural History and Mathematical Faculty and its geophysical department. Of course, all these and all the other remarks we will, we will include quite precise writings in the amendments and their explanations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u4030	Time. You have one replica, dear representative Maria Jelkovac, wait.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u4031	Thank you very much. In your presentation, you said that you do not need to call in this Act for technical regulations, and you cited Article 3(3) sets out the meaning of certain concepts in this Act, and for example, by setting out the content of these terms that calls for such concepts as an example of strengthening the structure to be done in such a way as to, I speak briefly, to be in accordance with the technical regulation, it is normal and when we have one such regulation, he, when speaking of certain terms, if they are determined by some specific regulation or sublegal act, is always called in content to that regulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u4032	Thank you very much. I think this is about... The misunderstanding, I've claimed exactly the opposite, I've said that it's quite necessary to follow the technical regulation,... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] to ensure that measures programmes do not intervene in what is technically prescribed. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u4033	Thank you. Next debate, distinguished representative William Matula.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u4034	My colleagues and colleagues. This morning when this Law was presented by Mr. Prime Minister on the question of representatives about energy reconstruction of buildings, whether it would be an energy reconstruction of buildings, especially when it comes to the complete restoration of buildings, Mr. Prime Minister has easily responded there will be no energy renewal for security. Now, that's really interesting, I'm talking about buildings that need to be completely refurbished, I'm talking about buildings, it's a good example of that right now in Markusevec, in Chucherje, Medvedski breg, Kashini, not to list, this part, or in Gornja, Donjo Stubica, Slani stream, Donja Podgora, it's about buildings that are completely destroyed and that need to be built all over again and it's called and it's exactly what it says in the definition of, uh, complete reconstruction of the building. It's absolutely amazing if we really expressed that we are satisfied with the financial framework, and especially what we know is that there is a financial framework that provides for 32 million just for this year's Environment Fund and for energy efficiency. And this Fund predicts 32 million kunas just like the fight against energy poverty, which I think is of course extremely important, and who's poorer than these people who, even to be told they didn't have enough strength for, or knowledge, or saved, that in their indifference, and now it's actually amazing that it's impossible for these people, especially because they're small houses, it's also in the law determined by man as much as it can be, as per another ten square meters, and it's mostly these smaller buildings and we have experience with it. Yeah, we have experience that a thousand and some buildings can be built in a year. It's a question of Gunja. It means yes, it can be done. I can't believe that in this particular case it's impossible to allow people to get the same fund, especially as 60% of the money can even be obtained for energy efficiency and if that's how to restore it, then it even allows up to 60% less energy consumption. The same story we can certainly apply in these 7 kindergartens, 10 schools, I don't know how many of these high schools, to assume it's just as possible, my colleague Tomašević talked about how there are very modern ways, why children don't regularly watch how these heat pumps work and how it allows summer and heating in winter. Well, I'm saying, we're glad that it's been said that it will be possible for all persons with disabilities, that's what I was glad to hear and we've heard it on the board. I would also like to stress now at this very short time that certainly, the prime minister said put forward proposals, so here is a proposal for our IT experts to have very high quality platforms or programs, software for monitoring costs by cities and in real time. I'm going to end up with the urban transformation being possible just so that for culture, I have to stress in this case, but a really dangerous situation with the Comedy Theatre and the theater, the Gavella Drama Theatre, which has already been in trouble.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u4035	Thank you very much, we have two replicas, the first respected representative of Domagoj Ivan Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u4036	... with my colleague Matul about energy poverty and, in general, everything we have to do about it and not only for the poorest, but I have to correct you because today the prime minister said to this question, however, that energy renewal is simply another project, another way of obtaining European funds, so no one rules it out, however, we all want to and not only the city of Zagreb but also wider but one and the other at the same time, from the same money, it is evident that unfortunately it does not go so well. [[Specially enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u4037	Dear Representative Matul.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u4038	Thank you. True, yes, the prime minister, I say at the beginning when he was asked the question of energy recovery, said the energy reconstruction would not be, waited as if to find, for safety. And then there was a long break, then, finally, and I agree with you, that it said that these were different funds because it did do to him himself, but this fund, which has 203 million kuna, is a very small fund compared to almost a billion, I'm sure we're talking about it, it doesn't have to be called an institution, let it be called a fund, but it has to have these powers to coordinate all of this together so that it could fit together especially for those who need it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u4039	The next replica is the respected representative Mark Pavic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u4040	Thank you very much. Your Honor, I was just about to refer to this, the prime minister did not say that, and moreover, we have a programming of 22 billion euros ahead. What you're saying is, these are the existing funds of the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund, 30% of the 7.6 billion euros, we're going to have to focus on environmental protection and climate change programmes. Energy efficiency will certainly be one of the priorities, what follows now is programming, so negotiations with the European Commission, which is why it can't be, which is why the prime minister pointed out that these are some other funds, after it's being negotiated, and it's possible to agree on a special priority axis for an earthquake, there will be more means than there are in the future financial envelope where I remind you once again, we have 22 billion euros double.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u4041	Thank you. Honorable representative of Matula.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u4042	Thank you. I'm glad to hear that, and yes, I really think that's where we should go, especially when we're talking about buildings, about blocks in the Lower City, in the Upper City. I already mentioned the problem with these houses in Prigorje and Zagorje. I'm talking now and about institutions, but it's also very well you know that the vast majority, over 80% of the buildings in the lower city in the blocks is actually now having a certificate E and even worse than E. And we know that this really energy goes out, out of the window, into the wind continuously and impossible to cool. Here, you'd still like to add in this last second to the Music Institute in Gundulic. It's alarming with all the other museums.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u4043	Thank you. Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Stephen Nikola Bartula, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u4044	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Now, I will not enter into the technical details of this law but in principle I will talk about some of the important shortcomings I see already now that we have a final proposal, I hope that this readiness of the prime minister will be realized to respect the good amendments and to improve what we now have ahead of us. It is not disputed that solidarity should be shown and the necessary measures should be taken to restore Zagreb after the earthquake. And it's a good thing you're looking for as much consensus as possible. The prime minister stressed transparency in law enforcement this morning, but the practice unfortunately shows that in Croatia it is not often the case. The well-netted performers I believe will surely recognize their interests and take advantage of this opportunity when the state will spend huge amounts of money. However, we must take care of the interests of all taxpayers, many who do not live in Zagreb, this bill has many shortcomings in this regard. For example, when it comes to a new reconstruction fund, I think it deserves our attention. For example, the law says: how it will be entered in the Court Register and that the seat will be in Zagreb. This is essentially not so important information because there is no word on how the state or city will finance its shares in the new fund and under what conditions. The law doesn't say anything about it. We are in a situation where GDP in the second quarter falls more than 15% and we are facing a difficult recovery of the economy. I would like to remind you that the 2008 recession was much easier than this one, and it took Croatia a full seven dominoes to recover. How can we believe in transparency and not know anything about terms of borrowing? This morning in this debate, the prime minister mentioned some possible institution with which the government will cooperate, but we don't know any more about it in detail, but I think we need it now, not afterwards, to find out what conditions we're going to be in charge of. When the European leaders recently approved a new recovery fund, they cited funding methods, including the introduction of new taxes, for example. those time-limits for returning borrowed money. Here in this proposal nothing about it. This approach, unfortunately, does not give us confidence, we cannot know what possible implications are long-term on public finances, and it is not good to know that only later. So I think that on one hand we should support the principle of adoption of this law that I believe is not passed by an emergency procedure, we have had time to study it and it is not to say so over the knee adopted even though people rightly await it and have waited a long time. But as far as we're concerned, I think it's very important to know at the very beginning what the options are, what the possibilities for new borrowing are, because we know that the state doesn't have the money for this kind of basic reconstruction that some mention will amount to 10 billion euros. It's not small money. As always, it is nice to talk about solidarity and I am certainly for it, but in Croatia often greater benefits from this solidarity have some, not all, and others often pay dearly, so I think it is very important to take care of it in advance and we will propose some amendments and options to prevent, for example. possible abuses when public money is spent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u4045	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Domagoj Milosevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u4046	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Another esteemed colleague and colleague today, good afternoon. I'd like to highlight in these five minutes the three topics that seem important to me. The first is actually just the concept of the law and what are real opportunities in terms of laws solving our problems or our citizens' problems. So the law. Their quality as it's written, of course, is very important, but I think it's equally important for the people who enforce these laws, and so are all of us that these laws apply to how we behave. The laws should first and foremost create a framework for systematic problem-solving in this case of reconstruction of the City of Zagreb, but now I am talking about all the laws in principle. In terms of this law, I think it's good, and most of it has agreed that it's good that we had two readings, that we shake well what this law says. And I am grateful once again for a really constructive debate and a lot of proposals, and I am also glad that we as the ruling majority have respected the vast majority of good constructive proposals, the ones that dealt primarily with the essence and the less form. But I want to point out one more time, so people who enforce the laws are also important. We have a lot of good laws, and that's exactly what we're counting on, and I think here in this assembly we, too, on the ruling side, and out of opposition, should pay general attention to people who are carrying out various laws and we talk about it at all levels and on their ability, on the one hand, transparency, if you will, and on the very character of people who have billions of our money. The second question I wanted to highlight was once again the issue of solidarity. I think the correct path that we started in the first reading is that I think it's even better that until the second reading we fixed that we also introduced social economic criteria for people who are either socially at risk or by income parameters or property that the Republic of Croatia is helping them completely to rebuild their buildings or their homes, and I don't understand that I have to admit those who are against this solidarity. I've been an entrepreneur since I was 19 and most often in my life before and before political action, and now I'm fighting for lower taxes and lower administration, but that doesn't exclude solidarity in any way, however. Both my wife and I are teaching our children that and I don't really understand them at all, and there are them in the assembly, who question this because then how should we feel Dutch, Danish, Austrian, German taxpayers who will pay from their tax 500 million euros for the reconstruction of Zagreb, cash direct, European Solidarity Fund. I think the good part and the 22 billion that is intended for Croatia in the next 4 and 7 years, in fact, is actually going to be able to come to a good sense under that solidarity. The smaller part of those 22 billion will actually go back to the German economy, Denmark, Finland, I don't know whose. Most of us, if we're smart, quick and able to end up under quotes in this solidarity in our economy, so I don't think anyone should have any dilemmas about it. And one more thing I would like to point out is that in the centre of Zagreb live exclusively well-being individuals or families. As not only the center suffered in the earthquake, parts of the 2 County, Zagreb and Krapina-Zagorska, as well as parts of the City of Zagreb, which are far from the centre, where people are, have many people at the social minimum, so I don't think there should be any discussion at all and that it should be fully met by all those people who are already on the edge of poverty if they are not helped, then I'm afraid to cross that edge. And the third topic is security, and about that safety was relatively little debated, I think it's actually just luck in an accident, everything that happened those days, those weeks, I mean the Covid, I mean for the moment when the earthquake happened, don't God forbid that he was at another point or that he was even stronger, the victims would have been far, far more. I'm going to remind us all of the first earthquakes since 1880 already took place in 1900 or '901. And almost equally strong in '905, '906, I'm just saying that from the perspective that what we're doing today might be needed by our fellow citizens for the next decades, I hope for our lives, in the sense that we'll live so long. This quality of restoration is therefore very important. In addition to speed, I think it's actually a quality in terms of security, insurance construction reconstruction to the level that next time there's no near this kind of damage, and I hope that in fact one of the key consequences or objectives of this law will be that our fellow citizens are still for the next 100 years. Here, thank you very much and if there's a replica here alone.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u4047	Thank you. We have two replicas, the first respected representative of Davor Eve Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u4048	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Milosevic in your individual debate, and in the name of the HDZ Club you have stressed the importance of transparency, that is what Croatian citizens expect in the implementation of this law. In this context, I think it is important to stress that citizens are mechanisms such as this e-renovation application in terms of publishing all procedures, especially those concerning public procurement, to be available to the public, that citizens and the whole of the interested public can monitor how the reconstruction programmes will be implemented.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u4049	Dear Representative Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u4050	Absolutely colleague Stier, so I was introduced on behalf of the club this morning said exactly that this legal framework is a guarantee that it would be so transparent, that it would be particularly important given the longevity of the reconstruction process and the enormous amount of public money, so the money of our fellow citizens who make bloody money. So, this is not supposed to have any dilemma about it, and I'm sorry that already, we haven't passed the law yet, and we have evil prophets who are causing corruption, crime, we haven't yet started, and I think we need a little, especially when the crisis is at stake, we know it's going to be difficult, there's going to be a serious economic crisis in Europe and the whole world, but my personal experience is somehow a man with optimism and with a desire to do the right things still easier and the plants are suffering from any crisis. So let's not listen to the evil prophets, but we have this assembly, we have state institutions, and I think we can fight absolutely for total transparency, and I'm sure the government will do that.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u4051	The next replica is the respected representative of Josip Saric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u4052	Dear Vice President, dear fellow Milosevic, this very transparency is very important, and here I refer to what you mentioned in your presentation, and unfortunately we have one bad experience of transparency in restoring the County Posavina and Gunja and everything that has been dragged along with the name of our colleague, former Minister Mrak Taritash, who unfortunately is not present here, and she cares about the adoption of this law. And the other thing is extremely important, this solidarity you mentioned. In fact, we Croats are always solid when we need it. We have shown that the Croatian state has by its means, then there has been no European funds restored by war, the Croatian state has restored from its budget the County of Posavina and Gunja, and today we have an opportunity thanks to our government and withdraws significant funds from the European funds that will help us in the reconstruction process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u4053	Dear Representative Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u4054	So I can only agree with you and I agree that in these 30 years the Croatian state has absolutely at all times in war and peace stood by those who needed help whenever they were the elemental disasters of any kind, anywhere in Croatia or some difficulty and especially those who needed it most, and I think it's the only right path. And we are in favour, we belong to the European People's Party, we are in favour of the social market economy, so the market, but in itself, which is.../incomprehensible/... doesn't make sense if it's not for the benefit of all and the poorest and the weakest in society. That's what I think it's clear that this is the kind of society we want to build for all of us and our children.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u4055	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be respected representatives of Barbara Antolic Vupra. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u4056	The Honorable Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected representatives, respected MPs and MPs, I warmly welcome you, so I would like to talk about today's proposal for a law that is in the second reading, so the law which is a lex specialis of an area that was already legally regulated and would like to talk about how much we should turn to the future and how we will end all this together in the final, end up in today's perspective of the situation where we have opened a competition for the Energy Efficiency Fund in which, according to the fastest finger system, only 2000 lucky people in a few hours have been successful and achieved the right to spend some 1500 to 5000 kn for various certificates, or project documentation, so from 3 times as much as they were interested, only around 1/3 have achieved that right, and now you ask me why this is connected, so we have heard before, in the debate of this law, and the need and less energy use of construction would be provided. However, the family houses that, according to existing competitions and those that are announced in the future, will not include what in this law on the restoration of buildings primarily in the city of Zagreb, namely the static capacity of buildings, the construction capacity of buildings, so these house reconstruction sandwiches, the same in the energy efficiency of these competitions, the element has completely left out. So, I want us to think in advance that this elemental accident, and the earthquake is one of the biggest and strongest elemental disasters and this law that we're going to pass, is a lesson in future competitions for energy restorations, to include, above all, the construction element of family or public buildings in these competitions. That's because when you close one building, one house, you can't visually assess what's going to happen to them anymore, and often it happens that after that God doesn't come to an earthquake or any other hand, and you're just such a nice, beautiful building you just threw away the money and you no longer have access to these construction elements that reveal you the lack of the same. So I want to connect these two stories to the future, just as we should direct this law to how those destroyed areas will look in the future, whether it's going to be built today for our children, for our future generations so beautiful, so good and quality, that they're going to want to stay here. And on the other hand also a social or simply healthy element of the whole story, let's not close into a beautiful cellophane what should first be strengthened by the structure. Here are current stories and more pressing for the future, question competitions, ask EU funds for new energy efficiency funds, thereby saving our poor citizens money for energy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u4057	Thank you very much, we have one replica. You can stay here.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u4058	Thank you very much. Comrade Vupra, you said there was a tender for energy efficiency but you forgot that the server went down yesterday at 9:00 and that actually the citizens who wanted to take it couldn't handle it within the time limit that was scheduled, so at 9:00, it was about 9:00 and 3:00, nine and 20. So the technical conditions are important, so the administrative and professional conditions are important for the implementation of any act and this law itself, so you should mobilise all administrative and professional capacities in the resolution ministry because I know when there were 20,000 cases in the Ministry of Defence, all of a sudden when we released a deadline for recognition of disease-based status, that we worked both on Saturdays and Sundays overtime and that we didn't have enough capacity. So, colleagues, think about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u4059	Thank you. The Honorable representative of the Vupra.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u4060	Thank you very much. And I wanted to focus first of all on the proposal, how to improve because I think we need to be part of a solution all together, as often as it is here and mentioned. So it seems to me that this goes in favor of that, and all of these suggestions that go both now and in previous discussions, go in that direction, let's make a better city, a better state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u4061	Thank you. The next individual debate will be respected representatives of Romana Nikolic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u4062	Thank you, Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. The law on the restoration of Zagreb should be solidarity, solidarity for those citizens who lost their homes in the earthquake, but this final bill does not indicate this, so let's move in order. According to Art. 5. I consider the amount of 80 % co-financing for mechanical resistance and stability and repair of non-building elements insufficient because when carrying out a replacement facility, citizens will not be co-financed final construction works, crafts and installation works to eventually move the user into their replacement facility and to highlight the basic requirements for construction of the amount that will be borne by cc 50% of the total cost, which is ultimately non-solidated and does not go hand in hand by the citizens themselves. The amount of 20 % in art. 7th century 1 requires the user to pay prior to the start of the work on the account of the fund, given the status of citizens affected by the natural disaster and any additional costs incurred after it, the state has neither heard nor shown social sensitivity to those citizens, they are not allowed to pay for the renewal after the completion of the work but is required to pay before the start of the work. The same conditions for all are also not respected, and let's say by Article. 27th century 4. if the owner of the damaged family house has another residential property, he does not have the right to substitute property, regardless of their residence on the same property. The law does not define the amount of funding by the Republic of Croatia for the removal of buildings that have lost their mechanical resilience and stability to the extent that they have been destroyed or that their recovery is not possible. It is also an interesting provision of a law establishing a solution to the state of play or act which was issued during the legalisation process, and the time limit for the submission of applications for unlawfully built buildings under the Law on the handling of illegally built buildings was 30.6.2018, while the Agency for Law-Law-Built Buildings, which served as an aid in the resolution of those requirements, ceased its work on 1.7.2019. I believe that this way could benefit individuals who will thus allow for the subsequent submission of applications or the law will cover all legal, but also illegal facilities in which the activity was or was carried out on the day of the earthquake. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u4063	Thank you very much. We also have on your exhibit a replica of the esteemed representative Grman Kizivat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u4064	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Nikolic, when you mention the article. 27. I will refer to St. 6. means St. 6. says that “the family home can be built if the owner or co-owners of the property are asked to do so on a written basis, provided that they or their relatives in the City of Zagreb or Krapina-Zagorska and Zagreb County do not have other properties.” I'm interested in this law. What does it mean to relatives? Relatives can be other households, so brothers, sisters, parents, if one family has property in Zagreb that is destroyed by an earthquake, and has a cottage at sea can be restored, and one who has a garage, is it also considered a property that is capable of replacing this existing property from which they live?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u4065	Dear Representative Nikolic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u4066	Thank you, Agent Grman, and thank you for pointing that out. I absolutely agree with you because we have to agree that this law, and after the second reading, is undefined and unspeakable, but here I am looking forward to the amendments that I am going to make and pointing out all the shortcomings and I hope that they will be adopted because it is for the benefit of the citizens because they are the only thing that matters here and I want to make up for them lost. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u4067	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u4068	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. It's been said a lot so far, I'll also stick to some aspects of the law. The earthquake that struck Zagreb and its surroundings took place on 22 March, now on 2 September. It takes too long for us to pass the law, especially to pass the law, especially for a long time, given the times we've had with so much inadequacy, permeability and uncertainty. I think the real and reasonable deadline was until the end of the last call, so that by June people knew what and how to do it, when they can and how they can expect some renewal. Now a long time has passed I say, and actually time has not produced a better and better-quality proposal than it is still missing. Namely, as said earlier, many things will be regulated by sublaws. Is that on purpose, does anyone want to bypass this House? I'm usually an opponent of prenuptiality, but whenever you leave a lot to sublegal acts, there's an impression that it wants to get around, that the public debate wants to get around and, of course, it also raises doubts about possible abuses. We also received many remarks, criticisms and proposals on the law which I think, again, given the times we had, should not have been so many. In particular, I would not ignore the Faculty of Architecture of the University of Zagreb, Croatian Chamber of Architects, Association of Croatian Architects, Association of Croatian Urbanists, Association of Architects of Zagreb, Croatian Society of Regional Architects, HOK etc., etc. So, all these remarks, all these suggestions you've received through your clubs, but I think these are very much the institutions that need to be heard about these issues because I consider them to be the most professional public to bring certain courts and we can't ignore them. If they tell you themselves that the law contains a whole series of shortcomings, that it will be difficult to implement, that many problems are created, then I think we should imagine ourselves very well. One example is leaving out craftsmen and expert advice for restoration. Namely, in the expert council for reconstruction will be established as a body of experts with advisory powers established by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, there is the HGK, but look at the miracles of the HOK is not. If you take into account that many craftsmen also work in construction activities, accompanying activities, construction work, etc., then we come to the conclusion that those who exist on the market are in the form of crafts, not as a commercial company are discriminated, that their voice will not be heard. And that's a question for the Ministry of Economy, so one whole segment of the economy that is extremely important to us, and that's craftsmanship, this is how we discriminate against not saying a worse word. It's one of the failures that I would especially point out. The Society of Architects, the Architectural Faculty and the others I've listed also give, also not very small, small remarks. And what is my biggest observation, and this is what these institutions that I have listed before and the lack of vision have been manifested. Namely, Zagreb urban, transport and infrastructure sea many problems, these are problems that have been being dragged for decades, but which have not been dealt with more seriously in the last 20 years. The earthquake was a major crisis, a great tragedy, unfortunately it took one human life, but every crisis needs to be seen as a possibility, as a possibility for a new beginning. We definitely should have thought more long-term, we definitely should have gone out with some vision of the further development of the capital. We all talk here about how important this is to us, but I think bringing Zagreb into a state as it was after the earthquake, which is the purpose of this law just isn't enough. It is not enough for modern Zagreb, for modern Croatian capital and for Croatia as such. And even only the Croatian Architects Society says that this law, it was not, should have made it possible to draw up guidelines and prepare documentation for the whole urban reconstruction process, and it failed to do so. Instead of turning this deficit and this tragedy into our advantage, unfortunately we will again, we will miss something with a long-term vision because the only vision unfortunately often with us is just how we get the next election, in this case it's local elections, and what's going to be after that when we patch up just what we patch up has to be visually good-looking, which is going to be, we don't know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u4069	Thank you very much. The next debate will be the respected representative of Josip Boric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u4070	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, distinguished MPs and MPs. Here are the 5 minutes I want to say something about my view of this final proposal of the Law on the Reconstruction of the City of Zagreb i.e. Renovate buildings damaged in the area of the City of Zagreb, Krapina-Zagorska and Zagreb County. Just a few figures, 22.3.2020, 5.5 per Richter, earthquake after 140 years, injured 27 people, one unfortunately dead girl, damaged 321 public-purpose buildings, 24676 private-owned buildings. Useful with and without restrictions 18790 buildings, unusable or partly unusable 6000 buildings, damage to the government's assessment of 86 billion and a reaction to such a situation along with the City of Zagreb and two counties, first emergency aid, the one most needed to bring together for the purpose of at least these parts of usable or without restrictions on buildings, means 141 million kunas, boilers, walls, roofs, chimneys, etc., long-term rentals that we have heard about, so far set up 464 requests, 155 contracts signed, 309 urgently need to be resolved by 1.10, the prime minister said in which way he wants to resolve it. What did we listen to today in the debate? Comments from the SDP and comparison with the Law on Recovering the consequences of disasters in the area of Vukovar-Srijem County. 2014, the high speed of adoption, one month, results, we want about them, transparency, and no day today we don't know who contracted and who, what amounts, why subcontractors worked for contracted customers, price 1088 objects 654 million kuna or 600 000 per object size 60 to 80 m2, see the prices at which these facilities are sold today, 20.000,00 EUR, 30, maximum 40.000,00 EUR. The results of the recovery of the rapid emergency in the manner in which they are written and in the law. Mrs. Nadj, you were then, I mean the deputy, you raised your hand at some point, you didn't mind any of the sublegal acts you were ordered through that law. Take a look at this law in areas, education, health care, public works, work, I don't know, Croatian waters, roads, order 7 days bring the programme of measures, so it was. What measures were they? Who made the decisions? Government. Today's remarks, on what? The government created a framework that needs to be provided in the long term, means solidarity and financing of procedures and two clear fuses, institutions and public procurement. Do we remember public procurement to rebuild all the houses? I don't remember. That's why the tails are being dragged today just rebuilding those 1,000 objects, it's pulling on, but that's not what the SDP wants on itself, of course, but we've found a problem here that we're going to teach you something and it's looking for some kind of consensus. Why? Well, because he's trying to teach us how to rebuild in Croatia. If one country has experience in rebuilding, it is the Republic of Croatia throughout the EU, and we could say in the world, well over 150,000 objects that have been destroyed in the Homeland War, cities, villages, municipalities, raised from the ashes, we probably learned something, we know how long it takes and how much money it takes. So that those who wanted solutions right away or that it would be almost next year, will not, there are no financial resources, but there are no ones who need to do it, there is no building operation that can handle it in the amounts that I have talked about, and it will need in the financial section when we talk about the budget, the state budget, to provide a very large financial amount of one to two Peljeka bridges a year and it is not insignificant means to just go over this subject so easily, the philosophy of words I understand, but I do not understand the SDP which is against the law in a way that offered 50:30:20 as co-financing. their bill of law. Here the state goes with 60%, they say we are here against 20% of the City of Zagreb, 20% private owners with all procedures clearly stated. Those who clearly want to go beyond that or beyond the Law certainly have ways to deal with it. Unfortunately, here I can't say everything in five minutes, but I think the government here has shown how organized can be without forcing speed access to a problem like this.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u4071	Thank you. Thank you very much. The next debate will be a respected representative called Brumnic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u4072	... We had already started this debate hours ago and practically a large part of our MPs were talking about the lack of a vision of the future of Zagreb, and as this debate nears the end, it seems to me that we are getting closer to the future and that this future is just approaching us, and we do not know what we want from it. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] I'm going to try to look back on some things in this law that I kind of find unfair, but not in that ugly sense, but in human terms. I find it unfair that we have not equated the rights of the disabled, which I must admit is here for this speaker in some way accepted, so I hope that after the amendments submitted he will accept. The other thing that is missing in this Law is something that would have been resolved if the City of Zagreb had been thinking about a complete restoration in the City of Zagreb, which is accessibility for disabled objects. When we are already going into the constructive reconstruction of all facilities in the lower city blocks that were actually built long ago when there were no regulations on the accessibility of disabled people, then it was necessary to see that within this construction reconstruction of the device and adapted access, or the availability of people with disabilities to be reconstructed, it was about private, or public, and particularly about the public. Then I will relate to a colleague who was talking about energy recovery today, imagine you will create a constructive reconstruction of a Donjograd block, which would mean that you will replace some pillars, walls, panels, beams, how will that facade remain after you do it?, no, you have to explore the whole facade in order to touch the structures. The moment you destroy that facade, then it makes sense that that facade you're about to put on a new one, that this facade is in line with the principles that we're running today, or which Europe is asking for, so that the principle of energy renewal in the reconstruction of the city blocks, I think it should be built into this law, because we're just going to have to do it whether we want it or not, or it would be crazy not to do it. In this law, I said it the last time, and the rest is now, we are introducing the concept of a family house as a building consisting of three or less units of which one is residential, yesterday I asked the committee a question ok, we have a housing unit of 25 squares and two units of 25,000 production squares, is this considered a family house?, based on this law yes. So something's illogical, someone's trying to cover up the family house to do something that's not a family house. Then one thing that is fundamentally unfair is that this city and this state will in some way determine the dynamics of the restoration of objects by how much financial resources they will have, and then the article seems to me to be 5, we introduce a moratorium for sale or practically available with the property of five years from the day of the completion of the facility, I think it would be perfectly logical for us to bond with this moratorium in relation to the day of the earthquake, and that all those who enter the reconstruction process from that moment on whether from five or something more years, because those who enter the reconstruction process today will be able to dispose of their real estate in five years, but those who enter the reconstruction process in five or ten years, and we are aware that this will take a long time to do so. I can see that time is coming to an end, so I won't anymore, so here's thank you very much, that's all.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u4073	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Rada Simicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u4074	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, representatives of the government, colleagues and fellow parliamentary representatives. Before us is the second reading of the Law on the Reconstruction of the City of Zagreb and the surrounding area which hit the devastating earthquake on 22 March 2020, the bill is concise and clear and it is good for the sake of easier reading and better understanding for all... users. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The proposal for a law shows that all categories of damaged objects and regulations for all social categories are covered. This Law is extremely important and it is a test of maturity for all of us sitting in these benches and the law may be the most important one to adopt this assembly. We'll do everything we can to make this law come true. We gathered in this assembly need to send a powerful message to people in need and do everything to bring back their homes to people the way they were before the earthquake. With the concern of rebuilding, we need and we want to restore trust in people because these people have such expectations from those of us who represent them. The point of working in the Parliament is to be humble and understandable and to respect all the wishes of people outside this assembly. The amendments that have been adopted have complemented certain ambiguities of this law and I hope that the second reading will be complemented by even better, professional and technical proposals and that such a law will be passed by opposition and position. Six months. It's a long time for all who live outside their homes, and home is sacred, and we know that everyone whose Chetniks burned down and destroyed their homes. I would like to say that it would not be good for the replacement of the chair in the Parliament to inspire us to the media as more important news than the construction reconstruction of the city of Zagreb. It is very important that I believe that the restoration will go to the satisfaction of all and that we finally stop spreading panic, defetism and mistrust in everything. In the end, I believe that we can and we want to honor everything without exaggeration and a black hunch and that we will implement everything that is written in this law. We Croats are the winners in all the troubles, so hopefully also in the reconstruction of the capital of Zagreb and the surrounding area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u4075	Thank you very much. The next debate will be the esteemed representative of Davor Ivo Stier, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u4076	... One of the most important laws that will pass this meeting of the Croatian Parliament and I think it is justified and the government's approach to seek the broadest consensus, the wider the support for such a law, this has also been demonstrated in the first reading and respect of some of the proposals that came from different clubs, therefore from the majority but also from the opposition and all the belief that all of us are in the interest of quality reconstruction of the city of Zagreb, but also of course the facilities of Zagreb County or in Krapina-Zagorje County. [[Specially enabled.]] Speaking of these different political issues if you want and ideological views, we could see two sexes on that stage or if you want two extremes to solve, one would say that if the state had to do everything, so we could call that sex and that extreme, tattooist or socialist, the other would want the state to do nothing but have to do everything individuals, that would be the attitude to say, some classical liberalism. We heard especially this last part, these liberal voices, more at first reading than it was now, I disagree with that, but I think he has also enriched this debate and so much for Croatian pluralism is good to hear such voices in the Croatian Parliament. The Croatian government, which is typical of a democratic policy, has sought a central path, so it is also far away from that socialist but also from that liberal view, which requires the state to intervene but is also seeking personal responsibility. So don't leave everything to the market, and also avoid the state doing everything without having any personal responsibilities. In this final proposal, several proposals that came from our debate in this house at the time of the first reading have also been incorporated into the social criteria, that those who are in our society most needed social solidarity, to meet with it, that they, that the costs of reconstruction in this case are covered by the state but also by those who are more wealthy, so we are talking about those who have two or more properties, they must again participate more in the reconstruction and finance. In this way, I believe that the attempt to seek a balance, one central path, one way in which, in a fair way and according to the principles of equality, address this problem, this natural disaster that will indeed seek a systematic solution, something that may not be possible overnight, which will take a long time, and in this respect I believe that there is a law that is of quality, which will still be voted in that final version, perhaps also experience a club of HDZ representatives, but has already announced that it will also have certain amendments and I believe that in this respect it will also earn broad support from MPs and MPs in this Croatian House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u4077	Thank you. We have several replicas, the first respected member of Milosevic. A microphone, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u4078	I agree that it is very good and important for our democracy to hear both the most diverse voices and attitudes in our assembly and beyond that, but I would still ask you, in order for you to characterise the attitude of an individual I don't know, it doesn't matter, whether a politician or a public person who says it's okay, we'll take money from the German taxpayers' Solidarity Fund, but we as Croats shouldn't be given the same solidarity from the state budget, I'm not just talking about the restoration of Zagreb, right now Zagreb, there was a firehouse, the day after tomorrow don't give God, let the flood, so I'm generally talking about the principle of solidarity.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u4079	Your Honor, Mr. Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u4080	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Milosevic is indeed a person and likeness of solidarity, on the one hand, to meet who is in need, but also so that he who uses this help also brings back to society, or to show his responsibility in this respect, whether it is done at European level when it comes to those more wealthy Member States who can meet and contribute to the European Funds, as well as to the solidarity funds and those who receive such assistance, or when, in the case of our Croatian state, when the state intervenes, and we have our citizens who receive that assistance, but they also require a certain form of responsibility. I think those are the principles we have to stick to.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u4081	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Dark Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u4082	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Stier here you were talking about a few models. I would mention a model that works, so a lot of our fellow citizens decided to rebuild their building in a way that activates parts of buildings that aren't in operation at this time. For example, they decided that according to the spatial plan, a attic can be arranged, they have an investor who will arrange the attic and from these funds will rebuild their building. We do not see why this could not be mentioned and the exception in this law because if they do not have enough to reduce the part that is provided from the budget by that amount that will be activated for the right parts of the building that are not in office at this time. And that's one of the ideas and one of the ways and somehow we're going to pray that with really extra attention one such amendment that's being seen is because that's how you actually cut funds from the budget, and the building gets on values. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u4083	Your Honor, Mr. Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u4084	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, I believe that such opportunities, and even if they are not in this law, exist if this could be the way to renovate, for example. The attic and find some sustainable way of financing the renovation. Whether the state intervenes or not. What must be decided here, which we must of course as representatives of Croatian citizens, worrying about what is the fiscal capacity of our country to see to what extent we will subsidise from the state budget or not such projects. As such, I think it is possible to implement them without being regulated by this law. What you're looking for is whether to use the state budget to encourage it or not. This is, of course, open to discussion because there is a need to see again what the capacity of the state is and what is the personal responsibility of every citizen.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u4085	Thank you very much. The next individual debate was supposed to be a respected representative of Silvan Hrelj, I don't see him, he's losing his right to debate, and then the next debate will be respected representatives of Dalia Oreskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u4086	Dear Chairman, fellow MPs and MPs, when adopting each new law, we need to ask ourselves to what extent this law will retain a test of time and whether the bill will fall on the test. All the shortcomings in the bill we are discussing today will appear very soon. The opposition, but also the wider professional and interested public, also showed in the debate, and by the number of amendments submitted even more in their content of great interest and constructiveity, but it does not make me at least for now that there is enough hearing for them to accept them by the ruling. Until the second reading, even those major shortcomings have not been addressed, so the amendments tabled are also reduced to slight improvements because, in essence, the amendments cannot be touched. We further point out that it would be in the public interest to pass laws with a significantly different concept and structure. The purpose of the law must be a complete urban reconstruction and development of the City of Zagreb, not just a mere recovery and patching up of the earthquake affected areas. When it comes to funding models, it is only about the ratios in which the state or unit of local self-government will participate, but few today are talking about the fact that this moment of recovery means such as Zagreb really does not need to be found. Without the interest of investors, a serious recovery cannot really be implemented. With that in mind during the debate as well as in the brochure that we have prepared, we have shown on very concrete examples how reconstruction can be financed using existing and new potentials of any single property that is being renovated or which may be covered by this law although it has not currently suffered visible damages. Starting from the real state that is on the number of buildings and naked eye, we are looking for those models with which semi-empty and detached buildings will be restored by the possibility of using their full capacity, and the full use of such a renovated real estate will give a new life cycle. I think it's very important, the more huge financial public funds are invested in this law. It should start with that no one will invest private money in real estate to leave it empty and for no purpose, and this could happen in that case of non-planning reconstruction in the direction of the city and the state and that of public money at the expense of all taxpayers. The possibility of approving an increase in the capacity of buildings either by adding new floors, either by converting empty and inadequate unused spaces into residential areas, by editing the previously unused ceilings for residential or business purposes, the building would receive added value which could significantly cover the costs of the renovation itself, so that the direct financial part for which all those in that building have their financial shares is reduced. It is similar with unused basements, but also with those courtyards of numerous buildings in the very center of Zagreb. Investment in the recovery of some buildings in a targeted state would be a clean waste of money regardless of who settled it, so we advocate to take care of what future different models of using individual properties are. We also advocate that, in cooperation with representatives of different professions, an appropriate measure is found between the ban on interpolation in the historical cultural urban core and that we also make sure that we do not allow interpolation to an inappropriate extent and in an inappropriate way. We should turn to the logic of the buildings themselves and their future potentials. However, in order for this to be possible, it is necessary to comprehensively collect and analyse all relevant data and make a refurbishment register that will be publicly available. It was precisely this task that could have been carried out during this last several-month period in which nothing was done and that the government really had an ambition to make a quality law then just like this collection and data analysis would have been the first serious step is there a big difference between the beginner of evaluations and clear, public and transparent registers. In view of this planned share of co-financing with public funds, taxpayers must know in whose particular interest the recovery is carried out. In doing so, I also think of the catalogue of property owned by the state and city itself, many properties used by privileged groups, when public registers published about it, I'm afraid it would be a health shock for many of our citizens. With this law, all these irregularities should not be kept below the surface and remain hidden further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u4087	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u4088	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, the respected secretary of state with an associate, respected colleague and colleague. I'm going to say a few things that I, among other things, cited and when I first read that this law largely determines and solves, but I believe that with the programme of measures can go further to meet a number of our citizens who have suffered damages due to this great earthquake. Namely, this law is based on 3 essential items. The first is that the approach to rebuilding the building affected by the earthquake is based on the reconstruction of the structure or the complete restoration of the building. The second important element is this programme of measures that I mentioned earlier which needs to be well defined and set measures and deadlines and how and how to implement the whole model itself. And the third important element is the establishment of a Renewal Fund that would manage and implement the very reconstruction of the City of Zagreb and neighbouring counties. The Construction Act provides for 6 essential requirements for individual buildings. One of the most important, first basic requirements for construction is resilience, mechanical resistance and stability of the building. Those buildings that have suffered damage to which this mechanical resistance or stability is violated by this law will indeed be able to realize and strengthen the building itself, its stability and mechanical resistance. But one of the essential elements, the essential requirements of the building, is energy protection itself, the building itself, which is largely defined by the very facade of the same building. How through the implementation of this first basic requirement of buildings, which is mechanical resistance and stability, it will determine its constructive stability through the complete reconstruction of the structure, it is assumed, in many buildings, to be destroyed in a certain way by implementation and by the very whole reconstruction and construction and façades, which will then be clearly disrupted, as I said earlier, this sixth essential element, which is energy protection. As many programs, and some of them are currently being implemented, and this is energy protection of buildings, I appeal that through the programme measures to those owners who will partially violate their energy protection through this programme, find a way to help them to ensure, in addition to the funds defined by this law, those funds that will help them to arrange the facade, by the end, only edit the building on the one hand, and on the other hand succeed in a certain way through the project of this reconstruction, which was provoked by the earthquake itself so that we can then enter into the realisation and that other part. I think that the numerous citizens in the City of Zagreb who have violated this mechanical stability and the resistance of the facility itself will also have additional costs, which will apply not only to the facade, but also to other works relating to the construction of the building itself at the moment. As for the difference between the first reading and the second reading, I would particularly praise the government in the section in which they have taken into account social criteria, I think that’s good, and so are we at the HDZ Representatives’ Club in the first reading, especially pointing out that it is very good to valorize the social status of the individual owner of the building itself, especially those who own several buildings that are also affected by the earthquake. And finally, what I think would be very important, which is that from the amendments that I have already read, and some of them were yesterday on the very Committee on Construction and Spatial Planning of HS that the government among them, among them, has clearly adopted those amendments, which will further contribute to the improvement of the law itself because I think this law should really take into account the fact that there is no, this is not ideological law, this is not a world-famous law, this is a law that needs all citizens whose property is damaged by this earthquake really realizes the restoration of their objects, their property in a way that is suitable for the 21st century. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u4089	Thank you very much. Stay for a while, we have two replicas, the first respected representative of Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u4090	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleague Bacic, you have just said the question of energy efficiency. We've already had a debate today and the same question as where the funds for this law will move forward. We already know that we have EUR 500 million from the European Solidarity Fund, 200m from the World Bank loan, but the same issue of energy efficiency is the issue of further negotiations with the European Commission. 30% of cohesion will have to go to environmental protection, climate change. The Italians had... directly related to the earthquake... therefore the cohesion funds will be able to focus on energy efficiency in the future, it should be negotiated, but it is fully in line with the green plan and your appeal I think the government will also achieve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u4091	Dear Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u4092	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Pavić. In fact, in your replica, you responded to what I was about to say, and to keep in mind that through the complete reconstruction of the structure to a number of citizens in the best interest to strengthen the building's full stability, that we will cause these same owners additional costs at the recovery of the part that will not be covered by the project itself. I believe that this is the way, method, plan, energy protection project of buildings, which in the most part refers to the facade, and many of these works will include the destruction of the facade in order to strengthen its stability in the mechanical sense of building's stability, and this is the right way, and I think that is why I have also stated that the programme of measures that will be defined and that it is from this law that will result in such additional costs that will result in their strengthening of the structure allowing them to reach the funds so that they can improve their building.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u4093	The next is the replica of the respected representative Saric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u4094	Dear Vice President, dear colleague Bacic. I agree with you, and I support this thinking in the context of energy renewal, as my colleague Pavić said, as well as good opportunities to arrange the facades of the City of Zagreb which were and that there was no such accident, or this earthquake, were in such a situation, or in such a state that they should be arranged. Well certainly through one of these big jobs, and this earthquake is with all the bad luck that happened and a good opportunity to now edit the city of Zagreb's appearance in this special part of the Upper City and where the damage is the biggest, good chance to bring these facades to an appropriate, beautiful building and look like every metropolis and so on to our capital.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u4095	Dear Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u4096	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Saric. So, we also said in our first reading that this law and the reconstruction of the City of Zagreb and the opportunity and opportunity to get through the means that can get in the way that Pavić spoke through the cohesion fund and thus make that step we talked about. If we claim that 140 years ago Zagreb changed its appearance exactly after one earthquake that took place in Zagreb, this seems to me that the occasion of what we are renewing by this law can be very nice, appropriate time in which this restoration takes place, realising the funds of the Cohesion Fund through a special... as the colleague Pavić mentioned earlier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u4097	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be respected representatives of Ljubica Lukačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u4098	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, the respected secretary of state with a co-worker, respected co-workers and colleagues. During today, we heard a lot of things, during the whole day's debate on this important law, so I will not go into its details, but I will look back at something that we talked about a lot during the first reading. I thank the Government of the Republic of Croatia for having included in this second reading an article on social criteria because in this way many who do not really have the means will be able to get their home. Among them are Croatian military disabled persons, but also persons with disabilities who will be included in this law. I must say that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has decided from the beginning that at the end of the first reading, the agreement with the entire movement of persons with disabilities will be that category that will be able to exercise the right not to subsidise in repairs or building buildings or houses. However, because of the agreement with people with disabilities that it should look a little expensive, we decided here that I would submit an amendment for people with disabilities to participate in this law. So I'm going to be in art. 6. propose that in Article 1(2), paragraph 2 is changed and that it is now looking at a nomotechnical part to correct disabled people of the Homeland War in Croatian wartime disability and add persons with disabilities to ensure that persons with disabilities as well as Croatian military disabled persons are freed from subsidisation. Furthermore, I would suggest adding another sub-assembly, which is that if owners or co-owners lived in a joint household by 22 March 2020 with a Croatian military disabled or disabled person, they would also be freed from payments and 20% that would have to be paid by other citizens. Why is this important? Since it would not make sense that only persons with disabilities or Croatian military disabled persons have the right to exercise such a right because they have a lot of families where persons with disabilities are not owners or co-owners, but their parents are owners or co-owners of apartments, buildings, houses, etc., and people with disabilities without their help could in no way live and live in a joint household. So here I am asking the State Secretary to consider this amendment well and in this way allow both Croatian military people with disabilities and persons with disabilities to participate in this law under the same conditions and in the same way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u4099	Thank you, too. We have one replica of the respected representative Saric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u4100	Your Honor, Vice President. Dear Representative Lukacic. I agree and support this idea of yours and the initiative to even the disabled with the rights proposed for Croatian military disabled and civilian disabled. I would still take advantage of this opportunity and appeal certainly when adopting this law to take advantage of it I would say one unique opportunity for all those objects that do not have the appropriate conditions for the entry of disabled persons to any public purpose or private housing, and where possible and not yet used and done and designed to take advantage of the opportunity through the implementation of this law and through this renewal to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u4101	Dear representative Lukacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u4102	Dear colleague, I agree with you, and here I am convinced that this law and persons with disabilities and Croatian military disabled under the same conditions will be participated by the rights of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u4103	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be the respected representative of Miroslav Skora and the vice president of this House. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u4104	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I believe that the proposed law on restoration is missing for a number of reasons and does not guarantee the citizens of Zagreb and entrepreneurs who carry out their activities in the urban historical core the true anti-quake reconstruction of buildings. Namely, art. The 16th century of the Law determines that the damaged multiple residential buildings, business buildings, residential business buildings and family houses will be renewed by repairing not the construction elements of certain programme measures, by repairing the structure or by strengthening the structure in accordance with technical regulations, and any higher level of reconstruction can only be provided for if co-owners pay the difference in the cost of renovation. That provision is inexplicable and unclear because it enables a governing body, as is the custom or reference, and the law does not define what body it is to discreetly decide which citizens or entrepreneurs will be allowed to strengthen buildings to be earthquake-resistant, while other buildings will be restored only by simple repair which will lead the buildings into a previous situation before the earthquake or remain earthquake-resistant. On the other hand, Art. 12. determines that for the urban historical core of Zagreb, a specific programme of reconstruction measures will be adopted with certain deadlines, which means that the proposed law is aimed at the idea that the historical core is restored as a whole. However, the controversial article of the same 16th century does not in fact determine any unique... anti-quake restoration of the historical core which is illogical if approached as a whole. We find it economically invaluable, and from the point of view of security risks management unreasonable and illogical that the old city blocks of buildings that are built so that each block with its inner courtyards makes one whole, is being renovated so that within the same block, one building is being patched into the old state and remains anti-quakely insufferable, and the building is being restored by the whole restoration of concrete serklages. The country's movement insists on this and will insist that the level of reconstruction for buildings in the urban historical entire law be regulated uniquely. In the end, perhaps the weakest point of the proposed law is financing. It has its positive economic effects, therefore, from revitalising the private construction sector on the one hand to increasing the revenues of the state budget on taxes from services and production that will take part in the reconstruction on the other. However, the inflow of financial resources itself and the sources of funding are not planned at all, regardless of what the law regulates the establishment of the Reconstruction Fund or the quality of the assessment of the financial impact of this regulation, which is a legal obligation in the preparation of each law. That the law has been seriously approached in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance and has produced a number of financial projections that citizens of Zagreb and the surrounding areas already pay in connection with the ownership of their property from the monumental rent and municipal fee to property sales, on renting apartments or tourist rentals, etc., which are charged in the area affected by the earthquake could at least partially re-scheduled those funds and re-scheduled into the income of the Fund for Reconstruction and thus enable Zagreb and the surroundings to at least partially self-financed in this recovery. But here I also want to make a serious observation about the way we have joined the EU funding strategy. In fact, we have only succeeded with a serious delay and without a real assessment of the damage to private property, on the other hand, the Italian government managed, for example, to negotiate with the European Commission after the L'Aquila earthquake that all the damage to the earthquake in the Italian region is further financed by the EU Structural Funds in excess of EUR 2 billion. In this sense, the Homeland Movement believes that the participation of the Croatian government at the summit on the recovery programme and the new EU multiannual budget was unsuccessful and can only complain about the missed occasion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u4105	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be the respected representative of Marko Pavic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u4106	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, we all remember March 22, 6,24 when the Faculty of Natural History and Mathematics, the Geophysical Institute, registered an earthquake of 5.5 degrees per Richter. The institution I personally spent the first five years of my career working as a geophysicalist for 10 seconds of earthquakes has led to 10 billion kuna damage. I would like to refer to certain criticisms coming from the opposition in my presentation, primarily if we hadn't passed this law in time. This law is planned in a way to be inclusive, it is planned to go through 2 readings, to get joint comments because it will generate or determine 10 billion kunas that will be distributed in the coming years. So we set out to secure 141 million kunas for dental walls, for emergency interventions, for roof repairs and boilers. It was also a question that we were late to apply to the European Solidarity Fund, we were not late, we got 500 million Euros, 89 million advances. Mr. Crescent. You almost said an example of Italy, yes, but Italy may have had to look a little bit better and get into the subject of the European Funds, we have taken full advantage of all this envelope. Using 99.2% either a week ago. What I have also pointed out is, in its replica, the Italians have managed to secure 5% of the cohesion funds as a separate priority axis and this is also the government announced and will certainly provide it through the future financial framework, as we know 22 billion euros are at our disposal. Therefore, we are not late, it is a great effort, I also have to thank the team of the Ministry of the Regional and Assistants of the World Bank, the Faculty of Civil Engineering, Minister Štromar, Minister Obuljen Koržinek, a big job done, and it is precisely commendable to the European side that we have received the greatest promotion in the history of the European Solidarity Fund and that we have done the job well. We've been granted damages, which means we've done a good job of assessing only the damages. What we have also pointed out is that we will be inclusive, that we will accept different suggestions and I am glad that there are two major improvements in the second reading. First, the social criterion that will be complemented, thanks to the representatives and commendations of Lukačić to take care of persons with disabilities in this house, while the second increase also transparency that any spending spent on public money and through the application is publicly available. We have also seen through HZZ employment measures that regularly publishes the cost of measures used by employers for Covid, how much transparency has also led to. These two criteria, with everything else the promoters have said, lead to a very clear framework from which we can create a program that will then be filled with funds. Where will the funds come from? Once again EUR 500 million of the European Solidarity Fund, EUR 200 million of the World Bank loan, large funds in the future financial envelope of which 5% of cohesion can be made, transferred to the earthquake priority and also a good part of the funds through the thematic concentration of smart and green Europe to smart and green and sustainable reconstruction of the City of Zagreb. We have thus shown that we know how to implement the law, that we are looking for a consensus that is the maximum possible and that we have also enabled citizens of the City of Zagreb and 2 neighbouring counties to do this job in quality, while at the same time providing funds for all the initial renovations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u4107	Thank you very much. We have, you stay a minute, we have replicas of your exposure, a few of them. He is the first respected representative of Dalia Oreshkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u4108	Thank you, Chairman. Your Honor, you said you were surprised why the opposition was critical, it wasn't, the opposition was extremely constructive this time as well as the overall professional public. You also said that as ruling you would be inclusive, you did not, you did not respect those basic remarks. She would ask you to pass through the City of Zagreb to create a photo lab like we did for the purposes of making our brochure, to really pay attention to those properties that need to be restored by this law. You mentioned dental walls. What we want to point out is that there is an important difference between an emergency recovery that should have already been completed and it was possible under existing regulations. This law was meant to address the question of what would happen to the future of the City of Zagreb, and what does such a huge financial waste of public funds actually bring us? Which we'll get by investing in the reconstruction of this dental wall when the construction itself isn't such that it actually brings any real public benefit. With this model of reconstruction of the City of Zagreb, we will only cement an existing poor unsustainable state. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u4109	The answer of the respected representative Mark Pavić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u4110	Thank you very much. So I would just say that we have 25 amendments, or the government has accepted 25 amendments, that we have secured 141 million kuna for emergency interventions, that we have provided funds that will now be refunded from the Solidarity Fund for renting apartments, that we have secured for public facilities 200 million EUR of World Bank credit. So, and now we're also agreeing with different European financiers to also... or acceptable... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] therefore an acceptable housing to allow certain funds both as credit lines and as grants for our citizens. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, I think the data itself that we have adopted 25 amendments speak clearly and support the facts that we have said in our presentation.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u4111	The next replica of the esteemed representative of Davor Eve Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u4112	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Pavić, you said exactly that it was not too late but in time the Solidarity Fund was activated that Croatia was using European funds well, the World Bank loan. What might be the difference with other natural disasters like that. It was an earthquake in Italy that, for example, The international public was all focused on the earthquake. Today we know that the international public is primarily focused on this pandemic, so much and objectively harder to get public attention, including some international financial institutions, or if you want so much more successful when it can be provided and realised. In any case, I think you have pointed out correctly that Croatia has not only lost anything but has in time activated all the funds, including the EU Solidarity Fund.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u4113	The next replica of the vice president.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u4114	Thank you very much, if only I could.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u4115	And the answer, please, excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u4116	And thank you very much. Comrade Stier, so we just showed that we know, we can. There have also been some criticism by the opposition that why we have not also worked on a donor conference like Albania, Albania has not been an EU member, the European Solidarity Fund since 2002, precisely with the aim of helping, and that we have received this much funding, this quickly and this kind of advance speaks enough of the reputation of the Republic of Brussels, except for what we have done with quality and good work. So I think we've shown that we know and that we can, we're about to have a phase and programming itself in which these other funds can be distributed, but in time we reacted and did all the work, and that's why we went in two readings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u4117	Thank you. The next replica is Mr. Skora's respected vice president, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u4118	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Pavic, I'm from Osijek and we love it there very much when these people react immediately, not post-festum. However, as you have called me in your presentation, regardless of what you claim I would like if I were wrong, I would like if my colleagues were wrong, I would like this law to pass without corrupting shops, I would like a new case of the Roman to happen, I would like a lot of things to happen to the good. However, all indicators suggest that this law provides an opportunity... And as much as I agree with it or not, the fact is that the Italians have withdrawn over two billion, so I think about EUR 2.5 billion of grants, no loans, no loans, but grants do they have capable people who run them, and that's what a man needs to make peace with. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] The only thing that will change in the City of Zagreb is the visor, unfortunately many buildings and the cathedral itself, which lacks two tower tops. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u4119	Thank you very much. What I did in my presentation referred to your exposure is exactly the success of Croatia in withdrawing the European Funds. In other words, we have withdrawn everything from the envelopes of EUR 10.7 billion, there are no new funds, it is possible only by redistributing within the existing envelope. What the Italians did was redistribute 5% within their envelope to secure an earthquake. We're going to do the same thing in the future envelope, we used this one, there's no way when 100% of the contract is the envelope and when we're going to renegotiate with a few more contracts up to 110-120% this year. My argument went in the direction that you would quote the Italians well, we know that, we will, but in the Croatian situation it was not possible because we were successful in using European funds and we withdrew everything we could, so we had nothing to do with it, but that's why we have 22 billion euros, 5% of cohesion itself will be able to do particularly priority for the earthquake.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u4120	The next replica of the esteemed Uncle's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u4121	Thank you. A colleague of Pavić, when someone has no content, deals only with criticism. It was true that the law could have been passed by emergency procedure, there should have been no second reading and it could have already been voted, and then the criticism would not have allowed citizens to participate in the debate, it was not possible to oppose, it was not possible to make the profession possible, so it did not allow anyone to participate in the adoption of this law. However, now that everyone has the opportunity to participate, to debate, to still submit amendments, now that is the problem, there is obviously always some problem when there is no content. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u4122	Dear Representative Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u4123	Thank you very much. I couldn't agree more, and I was there in the government when we broke that decision, and here's my colleague, Oblisen Koržinek, certainly remembers when we gave up the option of going to a public debate of 4.5 days and in an emergency reading, we passed this law. We felt that this house deserved this House to be in two readings, we felt that the opposition had something to say about this law and that we had to get the profession on our side, the opposition, and that with the maximum number of votes we adopted this law. That is why it went into intervention and law in two readings and it is my pleasure that today we are in the second reading phase and that next Friday, along with a number of amendments that I believe will be adopted together we will adopt this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u4124	Thank you very much. The next individual debate was supposed to be a respected representative of Rajko Ostojic, and I don't see him, so he loses his right to debate. Then the next debate will be the esteemed representative of Zvonimir Troscott. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u4125	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, distinguished MPs and MPs and respected citizens who look at us through the screen. Unfortunately, in fact, from this entire debate, we had twice whether to pass the law immediately or to give it already for a months-long debate so that we could then make the best solution for our citizens. However, what we missed when we chose the path of a months-long debate, what we missed was a national strategy for the reason that I saw that the earthquake as such was not present in the national strategy presented by 2030, which is surprising, given that it was in Dubrovnik in 1979, which is still being resolved today or one earthquake in Stone in 1996. So the biggest criticism of this proposal is that this is a localized post-festum solution by profession. And why is that? What if there were an earthquake in Split, Zadar, Sibenik, because according to the profession, that's exactly the part of Croatia where if there was an earthquake like this, there'd be a wreck and then we'd be back here in HS, sensitizing the public again, and the media would come in, and then they'd be passing new laws, and then they'd start new local institutions, and they'd be bringing new laws, new institutes, and all over again. So we are talking about one inefficiencies on our legislative side because this was an opportunity not only to address this problem locally as the Law on the Reconstruction of the City of Zagreb but rather a national strategy on these situations. Our solution would be one national institute such as Italy and the National Fund for the reason that Italy is a country that spends a billion euros a year not only on the restoration of L'Aquila, Molise and other parts that have been affected but also on increasing awareness of the earthquake itself. The second point that the profession cites as the biggest deficit of this legislative proposal is something that appears in the media under the name of a seismic certificate that is missing from this law, if someone in society should tell us whether or not a particular object in terms of an earthquake is safe, and these are just architects and builders so that when building new objects there should be a seismic certificate. But not only that, but one technical book like the Italians have as a solution where it would be a set of all information related to a particular facility. Whether these are property relations, whether they are certain works on a specific object or certain seismic reconstructions that are absolutely necessary. And why is that so necessary? For reasons precisely because of the database, because when a builder or architect builds a particular building he builds it for a period of 50 years. Now, we all know that certain objects have certain building and financial depreciation and that the value of this object is falling over time. Now, the Swiss in their model, so every 20 to 25 years, require that this downward curve of the facility rises with certain energy renovations, construction reconstructions and seismic reconstructions, which increases and the safety of the facility itself, but also increases the financial value of the facility and we failed to do so with this law. The last point I would like to touch is that digitisation is touched, but according to the profession, we are in construction sector at number one on corruption and prof. Jukic said that this should be more seen not by object, but by blocks by block, looked at blocks by blocks, and not only that, but also costs that would show exactly the final and at which stage the project or object was located. The last point we would like to list as one major deficit of this law that is not taken into account is which one will be the institution that will approve of the restoration order. We know that we have 1,100 red objects, 5,000 yellow ones, so who's going to determine if it's going to be the center, whether it's a Markusevic or other parts of the city or the county that got hurt and who's going to be those institutions that will oversee those costs. I don't think that's well defined by this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u4126	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will also be the respected representative of Ante Sanader and the vice president of this House. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u4127	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished secretary of state. Here we are at the end of the second reading of this very important law and this is an opportunity to thank and thank the ministries and the government and all the experts involved in the drafting of this law because here and through today's debate it has been seen that the law is quite well prepared, that a great effort has been made to prepare this law. To give great importance to this law, clearly because of the situation which hit Zagreb and that here, the Government through this preparation, but also through a transparent approach, through the call and in the first reading, and especially in the second reading, everyone to give amendments to this bill has shown best, that she wanted to make the law best with a broad consensus of all parliamentary representatives because it was then the best confirmation and values of this law, and also the guarantee that it would be well realised. If we know that the estimate is 85 billion kuna, how much would it cost for a total renewal, then it's clear that that's how it was done. It is particularly important to characterise this law and solidarity and transparency and justice and this, that already in the first reading, that a series of proposals were adopted from the first reading, which both the opposition and the ruling majority, confirm that this is a good foundation, this second reading of the law, that we will also adopt the law. Here, this is also an opportunity for all of us to make new amendments through our new amendments, make our proposals and make the best proposal to restore Zagreb as soon as possible and as high as possible. It is important that the respected social status and social criteria, social sensitivity is shown, an asset censorship that is very important here, as well as this regulation for 5 years, that real estate cannot be alienated, in order to ensure this investment directly from the state. We've heard a lot of debates in the media, whether it's a fund, whether it's the best way to realize this, but today through the debate we haven't seen and a lot of different opinions from that, so I think it's also affected by the law and that it's well prepared. I think that Croatia has shown that in difficult situations it can deal with major problems, we have also implemented a renewed war of the destroyed state, so I believe that this law will also be adopted first by as many MPs as possible, and then by quality of implementation because it is a guarantee that this renewal will be of quality. Here, in that belief, thank you to all those who have made a great contribution to the drafting of this law and to all the MPs involved because it is a guarantee that this law will be implemented well and that we will rebuild as our citizens expect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u4128	Thank you very much. Now finally, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, the respected representative, Domagoj Ivan Milosevic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u4129	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. He says, "Third fortune." I'm just gonna try to sum up what we've been listening to today in a way that's as short as possible. I think today's debate was also as good as the last one, with one note, the impression is that some colleagues from the opposition, a little bit, as they were a little afraid to give genuine support to something that's good, so they were looking for hair in the egg and when there's no hair in the egg, somehow, people, make up your mind. If we say we're here for suggestions, let's all do it together right for the citizens who are affected by the earthquake, then let's do it that way. It's my suggestion and call once again to give her suggestions, which, as we've seen these weeks, have been respected more than ever before and this, we still have our hands laid out. I'll point out one more time, so there are no perfect laws. Perfect laws are as perfect as perfect or imperfect human beings. It's like that all over the world. In some part of the world, it looks much better, in another part of the world it looks much worse. And this, of course, we need to look up to ourselves and look up to that part of the world where it looks so much better if people are fair, transparent, able by the criteria of expertise chosen to enforce laws, especially those that concern us all and where billions are concerned. As far as transparency is concerned, I think I've already said that, I think this law, when you read it well, is a guarantee of just that transparency, inside it is all stated, all the data from the renovation that is ahead of us, which, because of the longevity and construction work and, of course, the amount of money, is necessary for it to be transparent, this law is so written, so it will be implemented. I am sure that both the mandatory and the Reconstruction Fund will be completely transparent and every kuna of our taxpayers will be clearly monitored. The matter of security is also mentioned several times today. I think it's very important to repeat that. So the restoration must be top quality, because the idea of this restoration isn't that for God's sake for a couple of decades, if something shakes again, we have a problem. So, I recalled, in 1880, was that big earthquake, but for 20 and 25 years after that, Zagreb was shaking again, therefore, we expect that the result of all our joint efforts and all those who will work to restore our citizens will be that 100 years of the next peaceful in their homes. This is possible because what is the assessment of geologists is that over 6.5 of this degree Zagreb should never shake our surroundings. I also believe that, when we talk about this security, one big opportunity for all entrepreneurs, craftsmen, first of all, Croatian, medium, small entrepreneurs, not only of Zagreb, to speed up on the one hand, and on the other hand to speed up our economic recovery in view of the crisis that we are in, that is, that is, the whole of Europe, and I think that the biggest part of the world is going to shake down the recession, which is already clear. And finally, solidarity, there still at the end of the day somehow we all agreed. My fellow Stier, it seems, mentioned to me that there are no votes today that have not ended up understanding or supporting it, I will only say once more, if some German taxpayer, Danish or Austrian has the solidarity to pay us taxes, not only in the event of Zagreb's recovery from the earthquake, use that money, and a good part of the 22 billion that will be available to us, or are, in fact, similar to the money for different programmes, projects and investments and Croatian businesses and Croatian institutions and the entire public sector, then I think that no one should have any dilemmas, the Croatian state has always stood by all its citizens these 30 years, there were many difficult situations, I will always repeat, during the Homeland War our exiles did not end in tents, but in hotels, therefore, it is right that the government has taken advantage of some other space today, or are still still in the student situation, that we will not be able to be able to give them the right way to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to do this much more in the same way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u4130	Thank you. The next club will be the party with the name and last name, Smart and GLAS on behalf of which the respected representative Dalia Oreskovic will finally speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u4131	I will refer to Mr Milosevic, who has called for the number of amendments adopted so far since the first reading, so that the number of amendments adopted in no way shows the openness of the rulings, since you have adopted only what is excessively unsuspecting but not a particular serious problem that has been warned by the professional public and also the opposition, you have shown neither the will nor the understanding that you are implementing in this law. There is also often talk of transparency under this law, and there is no transparency in either the basic elements simply. I will only touch one element, which is the fact that the reconstruction also covers properties owned by any state of any city, which are very often for residential or business purposes in an extremely non-transparent way, which are allocated to political parties, associations and responsible individuals at a price significantly below the market price. Since it is about real estate in the most elite locations, it is time to think about it we should continue with the same models or with this public property we can manage and manage in a way that protects the public interest more and less privileged social groups. We will once again pass a law that puts everything that is currently bad in the way we manage this country and its property, patch it up, put it under the rug, and continue to behave like the old one. We need clear and concrete data on the damage to buildings, as well as decisions by the owners on future uses of these properties for a quality assessment of the direction of purpose. We need data on how the intended purpose is found, but also the future potential purpose that has some development potentials. We also need data on the estimated duration of all, especially those of the most severely damaged buildings, including potential investment interest for either the entire building or one of its parts. The way the renewal proposed by this law will in fact only heal the existing unsustainable situation and we will spend not only significant material resources but we will make it impossible to develop for both present and future generations. It's a responsibility we can't afford ourselves. We will fail in what is expected of this convocation of the Croatian Parliament. We have a variety of specific challenges and questions and answers waiting for each individual property. This law is made up abstractly and missed. Generally, it's based on completely, completely wrong settings. In an institutional sense, apart from the major corruption risks arising from the way it will be implemented, which is that everything will be dealt with later through some programme and measures of the Government, we suggest that it would be better to form one body that will have all the necessary technical teamwork but also other key tools in its own hands, and thus the power to decide whether to destroy and build buildings where this logic specifically requires certain properties. The body should also have the authority to assess which model of reconstruction is the most financially profitable. Such a role could be performed by an institution and not by a fund, especially by powers and by the content of this existing law. This fund could also include conservatives and urbanists, so no project could be approved and only because, for example, it determines money or conservation profession would already require an optimal solution between the two conflicts of interest. It is clear that this law will be adopted more or less as it was designed until the second reading, regardless of all amendments and objections submitted, because the rulings count that they have a sufficient majority but that the renewal problem is not nearly solved. And all the consequences that this law will produce permanently will still be talked about, justified, honest and courageous. Personally, as well as as as a club, we would support the urgent recovery of existing damages, which could also be carried out under existing regulations. Supporting this law would be irresponsible and I will return to what my fellow Milosevic said earlier, said the opposition is afraid to support something that is good. It's just not true, especially I have no personal fear. This is a vision of the future of the city of Zagreb for which the ruling did not have the courage and the knowledge to design and implement. What I can tell you, you're the ones who won't. Later I can justify that we didn't. [[Thank you very much.]] in time warned of the huge shortcomings that this law carries in itself. [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u4132	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is one of the Homeland Movements on behalf of which the respected representative Vesna Vucilović will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u4133	The Honorable Chairman, colleagues and fellow MPs. Today we had a quality debate, it's not questionable at all, and with this law that we say is very transparent, let me ask for some more transparency because it doesn't seem transparent enough to me. So the Law on the Reconstruction of the City of Zagreb is more quality than that of the first proposal, but the main problem is that it does not stimulate the full restoration of the City of Zagreb and the model of financing which is problematic and for several reasons. What I still want to point out is that we do not know the financial share of each category that is mentioned in Article 15, so Article 15 says, based on this law, the existing damaged buildings are being renovated and it is the buildings of public purposes, multi-state buildings, business buildings, residential buildings and family houses. So nowhere further in the law and later on, there is no indication of the financial share of each of the individual categories of these buildings listed in these 5 categories. So some buildings will go into full reconstruction depending on the ownership structure, some will go according to that model 60, 20, 20 or depending on these social parameters that we have now received in this second reading in a slightly improved legal proposal. And by doing so, it remains really unclear how much funds will be spent on each individual category of damaged buildings. I must also point out that at least last time, this time it was not so prominent, but there was a debate in the assembly but also in the media how much all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia from the state budget will finance the restoration of private property. If we knew it meant the exact data for each category, that debate would be groundless. What we have later in contributions is categorization according to the methodology of the Faculty of Civil Engineering or the situation on 15 June 2020, and then we have which are red, yellow, green tag means unusable, temporarily unusable and usable. And then after that we have taxed religious, cultural and other facilities, but in the manner of HAZU buildings, houses in Markushevec etc., meaning they are listed according to some ownership structure, and later it is said that we have a share of 1 to 3, 1, 3 to 1.5% of public-use buildings, or 98.5% to 98.7% of private-owned buildings or 321 public-use buildings, or 24.676 private-owned buildings. With all due respect to the people who have put in really one significant effort to write all these things, we've put together the grandmothers and frogs. I have to say that because I think it's only appropriate, because we know the number and share of the building according to the ownership structure, but we're all aware that rebuilding the HAZU building or hospital or one house in Markushevec is really not the same financially. These are diametrically opposite things and these are financial meanings of a completely different amount. This display leaves a certain space for different interpretations, and I would even dare to say it and create a shared opinion of the public and animosity among our citizens from different parts of the Republic, and I am not telling you this by heart but from direct contact with people on the ground. It is necessary to show financially at least in principle how much State co-financing will be for the 5 categories mentioned in Article 15 and thus finally suspend the debate whether solidarity should be and how much solidarity should be given because in such situations solidarity must not be questionable and it is simply necessary. Just by increasing this amount of transparency, we're going to have this discussion in public and interrupt. Funding is a story for itself, we know that the government has made a decision on whether or not the funds that have been set up so far remain the issue of funds and employment in the fund, whether or not they will be people from the system Or some new one so in the light of this crisis [[Intruder: Thank you.]] I hope it'll be the people in the system. [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u4134	The next Club of Representatives is the green-left bloc on behalf of which the respected representative Tomislav Tomašević will finally speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u4135	Here, the final and name of the Green-Left Block Club continues to ask for the assessment of the situation to be corrected, to match the data on how damaged the buildings in the City of Zagreb are compared to the City of Zagreb data and the data of the ministry of resolution because it is unacceptable that such discrimination is about 50%, somewhere 20%. We continue to believe that the fund should be replaced with the institution, but not only in the name but in the content and roles, because only if the institution is indeed the central central body for not only the implementation of the renovation but for the management of the renovation, then we can avoid the conflict of jurisdiction. It means only if it has the capacity to transfer people from the system, means from the Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of Civil Engineering, the Institute for the Spatial Planning of the City of Zagreb, the Institute for the Protection of Cultural Monuments of the City of Zagreb, only if that institution makes decisions on the financing of individual buildings and decisions on the restoration of individual buildings and the programme of measures, which is adopted by the Government and designed by the entire reconstruction program of the historically protected core of the City of Zagreb, that is the only way in which we will have effective implementation of the reconstruction of the City of Zagreb and its surroundings. I would also like to stress that this supervisory authority is needed, we will submit the amendment, the supervisory body where the representatives of the Croatian Parliament and the two representatives from the ruling class of two of the opposition and representatives of the state audit and independent corruption experts would be involved in introducing another additional control for the spending of these huge public funds that will need to be invested in the reconstruction. Also, regardless of what the proposer has put into, in part, our proposal on the transparency of finances that is on the quarterly level, we continue to insist on the publication of absolutely all the data related to public procurement, we have detailed what this data is and we think that the law should be detailed on what data is and we want them published in real time and that all citizens and the interested public are available. We also asked the amendments to ensure that the disabled people of the Homeland War are equal to civil persons, with disabilities, we continue to appeal to the promoter for this injustice we see in the construction of replacement family houses, so it is unfair, I repeat, that, for example, in Markuševec someone whose house is completely destroyed is family in an earthquake and has another 30m2 garage in Zagreb, we do not co-finance this house as far as the replacement construction is concerned and someone who has an apartment is co-financed by 80% of the renovations, although there are maybe 10 more apartments, we are not co-financed by 80% but 50% co-financed and those 9 apartments in the Zagreb area. So we think that if they're damaged, it's unfair to people who own these family houses. It is also not clear and we are asking to clarify how much the state will co-finance the costs of the recovery, or repairs, we suggest that it is a 60-20-20 model, which means the same model as for co-financing so-called. construction reconstruction. There's a lot of technical creaminess right now and in the definition of construction renewal, we've given a lot of technical amendments, and we think that's how different problems in the interpretation and implementation of the law will be avoided. We also ask that, for example, when we talk about full renewal, to bring it into line, to make it clear that this is in line with technical regulations or technical standards in technical regulation rather than with the programme of measures. In the same way as business buildings, we believe that co-financing of business buildings should be made when it comes to private owners, that this co-financing should be treated as small-value support, and then there is a limit of de minimis, etc. We also believe that it should definitely better set out what this programme will include and how and by what principles the Government will develop a programme of environmental protection measures for urban standards and criteria, public interest protection, access to people with disabilities and all other criteria and values that we consider important to us. Because of all the things we said, we, as the Green-Left bloc advocates' club, handed over 33 amendments, thank you for these some amendments you've already adopted after the first reading, you said that 25 opposition proposals were adopted, many of them are ours, but still so that this law would be enforceable, we hope you will adopt these further 30 that we have submitted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u4136	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is the SDP and will finally speak on behalf of the club the respected representative Arsen Bauk, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u4137	Thank you. My colleagues and colleagues, of course it is a very important law that has called not one but two extraordinary meetings of the Croatian Parliament. There are several stakeholders about this law and in this law, there is one state, there is one local self-government, there are citizens, but everyone is the same goal, as the old brothers' people's "We need to rebuild as much as possible and pay as little as possible." Is there enough resources to implement this law and what if there is not? There is a danger that the selective law will then be applied so that some who are closer politically can take advantage of everything this law gives them without simply having money for some. Now that's a danger. Secondly, if most or all of the laws are dealt with by sublaws, then we're actually talking about the metrics in the declaration, not the law. A declaration to which the Government or bringers of sublegal acts informs them that they have the right to resolve this matter, and we as a business are done here. Here's fellow Boric, that's the island law, for example, the same thing, all the sublaws. Therefore, what a colleague said today on behalf of the club, Hajdas Doncic, would be good at least if this programme of measures were adopted in the Croatian Parliament and, of course, the Croatian Parliament had control over the implementation of this law. About how sublegal acts are passed, we read every week in the weekly wind power plants, and I hope that this way will not bring sublegal acts into this law, I sincerely hope, and the law should be passed. And as Mr. Milosevic said, I will quote him "the opposition is afraid to support what is good", did I quote correctly? Well, the opposition isn't afraid to support what's good, we've voted for a lot of laws the government has proposed, but this isn't good enough, it can be better. It might be better if they adopt the amendments that we and other opposition clubs have proposed, then that fear will be much less, I'm not afraid of us, we're afraid to support what's bad and we're not afraid to support it, we're proud of it, but we're afraid to support what's not good enough, and the law needs to be passed. Now, here's a dilemma that we have, we will easily resolve until the vote, seeing how you've set up for the amendments and the prime minister, what's good, has declared that he will try to accept most of the opposition amendments. If they're good. That's why we suggested them because they're good. And also, what's bad, it's very rarely happened, but some things happened the first time in this country or at least the second time this summer, so maybe this happens the first time. Therefore, it should not be rejected in the beginning. Besides, you had a dilemma in HDZ to support some proposals when we were government. Let's say you voted for these pre-war deals, right, fellow Milosevic? You voted for the Swiss franc, right? Because people needed help, and now they need help and see what kind of situation we're in, they need help, and it's not good enough. Therefore, in order to resolve this dilemma, to bring this law to an end the measure of this law and what this law wants, which is to restore the City of Zagreb and Zagreb County and the Krapina-Zagorje County from the earthquake, to help you, us, and all of us together we have made an effort to propose amendments and we will make an effort to support the law when it is good enough with the amendments accepted to make sure that it adopts what the law should be passed. So, two extraordinary sessions because of this law, a big debate in the last session should be brought sooner or later, but that is, an important topic and it should be, it should be done. In that sense, the SDP Representatives Club remains open to support this law, and we will make a final decision when we see how the government will be appointed and the motionary will set up around the amendments we have proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u4138	Thank you very much. And now, on behalf of the promoter, the Honorable Minister of Culture and Media Nina Obulen Koržinek will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u4139	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, for your honors and your MPs. At the beginning of this final presentation on behalf of the government, on behalf of fellow Horvat and all of us who have worked as ministers on and our colleagues, I would also like to thank you for the debate in the first reading and for your discussion in this second reading and repeat what the Prime Minister said this morning that we will consider all your amendments and, as we have observed between the first and second readings, a large part of the proposals we have put into this text of the draft law, so we will consider with great care all the amendments that you have proposed today. In this final address, I would briefly try to refer to the topics that were presented today through individual discussions or debates of clubs. Of course, much has been made from very general to specific and concrete proposals, so you will excuse me if I have missed a topic or a question. In the first instance, there were a lot of general comments on the speed or slowness in the adoption of this law, questions and on the specific law why the special law, why we did not go under the existing legislation that regulates the issue of elemental disasters, I think that there was a consensus about the damages of such proportions that it was necessary to approach the organised renewal through a special law. What should be pointed out, therefore, and this is also visible from the analysis, so over 98% of the buildings that are damaged are privately owned and should be understood that this law primarily refers to these buildings regardless of whether they are family houses or multi-purpose, multi-state buildings. And I will immediately refer to one of the questions raised in these final words. So these percentages, shares, social criteria and everything else refers to private-owned buildings. The law makes it very clear that the founders or owners of public buildings, or those who have them for use, are obliged to renew them in full with the whole restoration, so I think it is very important. There have been a lot of questions about the scope of the law and why so much has been left to the programme of measures as a sublegal act. Large, there are a number of reasons, of course, it is impossible first to cover such detailed guidelines with the legal text, its construction would then take a long time, and in addition, the law provides for a successional adoption of a series of measures, it will depend on how the recovery itself will take place, but it will certainly depend on the dynamics of the insurance of financial resources. As far as this is concerned, there have been a lot of words on sources of funding and there is also a need to clarify, one of the budgets that we all know have been limited to this crisis, and after this crisis, the situation with budgetary resources is even more difficult not only for the state budget, but also for the budget of the units of local and regional self-government. This is why a great effort has been made to prepare documents for the Solidarity Fund within a short period of time, as the advance has already been highlighted, and we expect, in fact, that, within a week, probably sometime by the 10th month, a decision on the full amount after which, according to the methodology of the Solidarity Fund, the government must make a decision on how these funds will be spent. The World Bank's loan has already been secured, and is being negotiated with other financial institutions, it is primarily aimed at public-purpose buildings, but as the Prime Minister said this morning, we are also in talks with the Council of Europe Development Bank, which has this specific instrument that these funds can be directed towards private owners and there is then the possibility of directing these amounts either for these 60+20%, which are provided by public funds or directed towards a certain type of subsidized interest through HBOR or some other modes to help citizens finance their percentage. As far as the European Funds are concerned, so is MP Pavić, but also others. This allocation is spent in terms of bargaining and therefore it is not possible to work in this financial perspective a correction that would allow us what was possible in Italy to reroute 5% of alllocations for an earthquake. However, in the preparation of the next multiannual financial framework of the regular and preparation of the Government for programming those additional funds that we received, and you know the apropo comment that the Government was not a good negotiator that one of the states had, if not the state that went best in that division, thanks not to our negotiating positions and engagement of the Prime Minister, so we will through the multiannual financial framework and funds intended for recovery provide funds for the renewal of the law, Zagreb, there are also surrounding counties and there are, of course, HBOR and subsidised loans. All of this will be done with consciousness, knowing that just the investment in the reconstruction of Zagreb will be the driver of the economy, especially the construction sector. I will mention for a short time that we reacted hastily within the possibilities we had, which were available to us by providing replacement accommodation and emergency support. Another general question that has been raised by more clubs, is that one unfortunate term, whether it's a patching or a whole restoration? I think it's a completely wrong thesis and it doesn't come out in any way under the law. The question also lacks ambition or lack of vision. Thus, the law is very clear in Article 12 of paragraphs 2 and 3 of this Article on how to provide guidance for the full restoration of the cultural and historical integrity of the City of Zagreb. In preparation for the next financial perspective, we have put the greatest emphasis on the opportunities offered to us under the EU's 2030 priority, which is called the green plan to link energy recovery to anti-quake recovery, to take advantage of the opportunity not only to restore the housing fund but also to complete the infrastructure, but also to achieve the rise of standards and housing, but also to the infrastructure of the capital in line with the needs of the 21st century. However, it is not an ambition or vision that can be drawn through several articles or articles of a law. So, this law lays the foundation, one concept, and the question of how to come up with a complete renewal of anything, any city, and so on, the City of Zagreb is a question of project making, in accordance with Articles 12 and 3 and I am sure that representatives of all professions will participate. This is a path that will provide a much more ambitious source of funding, we are talking about the next financial perspective and about the resources that will be available to us as an RH. There have been a lot of questions about why the law does not define more precisely on the one hand the sources of funding for reconstruction on the other hand the sources of funding for the fund, I think that with what I said earlier, I have made it clear that our efforts are actually aimed at different sources of funding. Until now, only in this short time were they successful, and I believe it will continue to be so. There were a lot of questions about the exact cost, about the exact cost of rebuilding. So, anyone who knows I'm speaking from our portfolio now we regularly work on projects to rebuild complex individually protected cultural goods, so until the moment you create a project no one can know what the exact cost of reconstruction is. This comes from the project. So what's in the law as an explanation, what's in the publication that came between this morning and tonight, and that's Rapid Emergency needs an assessment that was made for the World Bank, so we're based on damage. The cost of reconstruction and based on the methodology developed by the experts of the Faculty of Civil Engineering assessed the cost of reconstruction, but the correct cost of reconstruction will be possible for each individual building or for each block at the time the project is produced. However, the fact that we have received advance funds based on the assessment we have given for the solidarity fund actually confirms that we have done this assessment in a good way. I will try quickly to refer to some other issues that have been raised, so the issue of transparency is all that is proposed in the amendments to be enforceable and that will improve this law we will accept. We all share the common interest that this law does not really open the space for any manipulation on any side, and I think that there is a clear intention and government and that we will consider all that you have proposed. I've referred to energy efficiency, and I'm going back to the corridor I'm in charge of. It is largely about buildings located in a cultural historical environment. I will note that two years ago, we first adopted guidelines for the energy restoration of cultural heritage and thus created a prerequisite to restore the cultural historical whole of the building, whether individually protected or as a whole. Unfortunately, so far in the perspective, in the financial perspective that we inherited, it was not possible and automation all that was in the cultural historical unit was excluded from any kind of energy restoration project, and I'm more surprised that this morning we heard from the SDP's representatives that they were asking the question of energy efficiency. We have harmonised the procedure of this Act with the law on construction, there is no derrogation, we have only gone to speed up and simplify certain procedures, however, and here we will consider all amendments and see if there is any other room for improvement. During the draft law, you know that the Resort Ministry revised the technical regulation and we talked a lot about it in the first reading, so the issue of seismic certificates, adaptations, needs etc. We have elaborated a lot in the first reading, so technical regulation is something that brings a resolution minister and of course the possibility is always open to if there are some things that need to be improved. What is important and we have repeated this during the draft of the law, that for those citizens who have been able to start the process of reconstruction and do so in accordance with the first row of the technical regulation, this is most important, we will open the possibility of returning those eligible funds. And of course it is clear that every year everything will depend on the scope will depend on the means provided that I repeat, budgetary, loans, grants, the Solidarity Fund, etc. In this sense, it is necessary to understand that the law is only a framework, and of course our success will be largely dependent on dynamics. We have introduced social criteria through the debate in the first reading, there have been many interesting discussions today both about property and social criteria, we will consider all of this carefully and certainly all that is feasible and what will improve the law or make it as fair as possible, we will certainly accept it. There have been questions about the active legitimacy of applicants, we think that this has been settled well in the law, but if there are any proposals and we are here to listen to the amendments. And perhaps more, yes, there were a lot of questions about why we chose the fund, not the Institute. It's really just about the name, considering it's an excerpt. 12. listed Institute for Spatial Planning of the City of Zagreb and for the sake of clarity the fund was imposed as a better solution. However, as a resolute minister who follows the work of Dubrovnik's Institute of Reconstruction, which was repeatedly led here, I think it is wrong to take as a role model an institution that was created 40 years ago, as successful as it was and as much as this great expertise that was created in this institution was not only a good counter-quake strengthening, but also a post-war reconstruction, the concept of the restoration of Dubrovnik was created in the early 1980s, long before the fund was attributed to public procurement, there was a large share of of of course so-called. then social property, it was time before state aid. So today's support funding systems, decision-making, property relations are all radically different from Dubrovnik's situation, so I think that what good from that we installed right at the start of thinking in this law, and that's advice, so that's one inter-resorial cooperation, that's one body that coordinates different stakeholders. But here it is a much bigger area, a big difference if you are restoring a family house or restoring a block in the centre of Zagreb or doing some intervention in the Upper City, and in this sense it would not be possible for absolutely all jobs to be centralized into only one body because the simple scope of the renovation is the scope of the jobs that will be needed to do, which is to provide sources of funding, which to continue the care, so set up concepts of reconstruction, to implement the reconstruction where it will be carried out by a fund that far exceeds only one body. In any case, I would finally point out once again to thank all those who have participated in the debate during these last months in the first row to you parliamentary representatives and MPs, but of course also to the general public. There are still a few days before us in which we will carefully study all the amendments, all that goes towards the promotion of this text we will surely adopt. And of course there are years ahead of us in which we must show that we are able to professionally, quickly, transparently and effectively help citizens first and then restore the City of Zagreb and neighbouring counties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u4140	Thank you very much. We have some replicas, the first respected representative of Tomasevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u4141	Thank you, Madam Minister, for your final presentation. So two things, the first thing if you can explain for the cost of rehab, or the measures to protect buildings, because that's what the citizens were doing and they're going to do now, and that's something that's urgent, in what proportion is the state going to co-finance these works? Is this going to go through some contests again, like this one that's been opened recently, or can it be prescribed in the law as we have suggested according to the same model as the one that finances the renovation itself? Since it's something that's urgent, I don't think it can just stand in the law that the state will help, whatever that means. And the second thing, as far as the Dubrovnik Reconstruction Institute is concerned, is the institution that was founded in '79, but 4.5 times changed law in the Republic of Croatia, the last time in 2014. It continues to operate under the laws of the Republic of Croatia and we really do not see the problem that your experts from the Ministry of Culture and Experts from the Ministry of Civil Engineering and the Office for Spatial Planning of the City of Zagreb are also in one institution that programs all these plans.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u4142	Thank you very much. The reply of the respected minister of culture and the media.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u4143	I thank you. As far as these emergency measures are concerned, you know that before the law was passed, the government made decisions on emergency measures precisely because we would and we provided 140 million kuna at that time, which for water heaters, which for emergency rescue aid, so what is in this law is an installation into the law of what we have already implemented through that decision of the Government and it will continue in such a way. And as for the Dubrovnik Reconstruction Institute, I know that you've been in Dubrovnik for a few days to study it, but believe me, you've been there for two, three days. We have been following the work of the institute for many years and for the start of this 2013 amendment has largely put them out of force Constitutional Court unfortunately, so that this model has been adequate for a time, but we are not sure that in this case for this kind of reconstruction would be adequate.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u4144	Thank you. The next replica of the respected representative, Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u4145	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Minister. Well, I just wanted to say that since we have been having a debate all day about this programme of measures and the SDP's position that the Parliament should discuss this programme of measures, since experience says that when they had the opportunity to pass a similar law, the Law on the recovery of the consequences of the disaster in the area of Vukovar-Srijem County was also prescribed in the transitional provisions. 2. of that same law that all central authorities of the state administration are required in accordance with Article 2. 2. propose to the Government the programmes of measures which it will then adopt in some subsequent period and thus work. And today they state this as one of the reasons why they are not ready, let's say to support this form of law, although in this part of the recommendation that I have heard today is already covered by 25 of some recommendations from the first reading, and it is likely to be part of the amendment. That's why these stories of constructiveity still concern more politicisation than some real lack of law.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u4146	Dear Minister of Culture and Media.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u4147	Thank you, Mr. Representative. So, the programme of measures will work equally, it is already to the greatest extent prepared, in the cooperation of all portfolios and, of course, local self-government of the City of Zagreb and neighbouring counties. A whole series of programmes and measures have been envisaged, and as I have said, depending on the dynamics of the renovation and on the results, and on the needs of these programmes will be consecratedly delivered.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-02-0.u4148	Thank you very much. So I'd like to conclude a debate on this point, and we'll vote on it when the conditions are met. We will continue to work tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. and the first item will be the proposal for a law on foreigners, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 12. Have a good evening. MEETING Interrupted at 18:05 p.m.
