ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-26-0.u195211	Good morning, I suggest we begin our work. Today we have a first point: - Proposal for a Law implementing EU Regulation 2017/2402 establishing a general securitisation framework and establishing a specific framework for simple, transparent and standardised securitisation, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 857; Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the The Rules of Procedure of HS. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yes, the Honorable State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Zdravko Zrinasic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-26-0.u195212	Thank you, Vice President of HS, ladies and gentlemen. In the meantime, I'd like to wish for a lot of health, so let's go to this regulation that's proposed. Therefore, the law is designed to further comply the Croatian legal framework with EU rules in this area, i.e. EU Regulation 2017/2402 of the EU Parliament and of the Council of 12 December 2017. It is called the Regulation establishing a general securitisation framework and establishing a specific framework for simple, transparent and standardised securitisation. It is important to note that the Regulation is applicable from 1 January 2019 to all 28 Member States. As regards the development of securitisation, the EU Commission announced its intention to restart the markets for quality securitisations without repeating the errors of the 2008 financial crisis The development of a simple, transparent and stand-alone securitisation market is an integral part of the Capital Market Union and contributes to the EU Commission's priority objective, which is to promote job creation and return to sustainable growth. The EU wants to strengthen the legislative framework after the financial crisis in order to address the risks of its own extremely complex non-transparent and risky securitisations. It is necessary to ensure that rules are adopted to better differentiate simple, transparent and standardised products from complex non-transparent and risky instruments. It is necessary to ensure that the EU functions as a single market for standardised transparent securitisations, etc. STS securitisation and facilitate cross-border transactions. Before I set out the most important objectives of the regulation, I would also, in the introduction, present a number of information or information on the securitisation itself as such. So securitisation is the process of converting non-transportable forms of claim, for example, credit into transferable instruments, for example, securities. The securitisation includes transactions that allow the borrower or the creditor, usually the credit institution or the trading company to refinance the expensive credit,... or claims, such as housing loans, car purchase loans, leases, leasinzi, consumer credits, credit cards, etc. and their conversion into securities traded on a regulated market, i.e. generally traded. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The borrower shall combine and convert securities and reshape the portfolio of its loans and distribute them into different risk categories for different investors, thus allowing investors to access loans and other exposures in which they would otherwise not have direct access. Return from investment the investor comes from cash flows... credit. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As far as the Republic of Croatia is concerned, there has been no specific legal framework for securitisation itself so far and there are often concepts in terms of sales and claims, such as the sale of securitisation claims, this is not the case here, of course. It was therefore not regulated by national law or within the scope of the competent authorities of financial institutions. Therefore, no precise information is available on the representation of securitisations in the Republic of Croatia, but according to the currently available data, it can be concluded that it is not widespread and, if used, to be used, not to be used frequently. The application of these types of funding is linked to developed markets, while less developed markets and developing markets are more frequent, financing through direct banking channels. Securitisation is also an important element for the sound functioning of financial markets and enables risk sharing within the EU financial system. The purpose of securitisation is to diversify the sources of financing or risk allocation across the financial sector and to provide additional sources of funding that depend to a lesser extent on the banking sector, thus achieving the objectives of a more stable and sustainable financial system. The securitisation can also contribute to the release of the initiator's balance sheet, therefore, parts of the capital that would otherwise be intended to cover the credit risk that has been sold, in order to enable further lending of the economy through additional funding. We can also increase efficiency in the financial system and provide additional opportunities for investment. Securitisation itself can be a link between credit institutions and capital markets, which will indirectly bring benefits to entrepreneurs and citizens, e.g. ... cheaper loans and the financing of entrepreneurs and real estate or credit cards, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] With regard to the EU securitisation market after the crisis related to the so-called ... the sub-prime loans, therefore they were loans or risk loans that banks began to approve in the 1990s, to customers with poor or risky credit rating, so it took years and years for investors to gradually return to this and in terms of confidence in the financial system. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] A securitisation regulation serves to prevent the recurrence of the same errors or scenarios in the future. After the crisis, market operators developed a perception of securitisation as risky for investment and complex for evaluation. However, we can say that the secturitisation carried out within the EU has shown good performance, healthier fundamental foundations and greater resistance to the turbulence of the crisis compared to the structural products that came from the market.../incomprehensible/... loans that I have mentioned at the outset. The issue of securitisation securities has been in a slight but constant decline since 2009 and, for example, there have been EUR 423.9 billion of new releases compared to, say, 2017 when it fell to EUR 236.5 billion. In 2018, there was a slight growth and it was €229.7 billion. As far as the bill itself is concerned and its proposal is concerned, what brings forward in terms of the development of the sustainable securitisation market is, among other things, the aim of the regulation itself is to launch a sustainable market for securitisations that will improve EU economy financing while at the same time ensuring financial stability and investor protection. This bill provides a regulatory platform on which investor confidence can be built in order to ensure greater consistency and standardisation on the market and to establish a more risk-sensitive regulatory framework. The Regulation also lays down a general framework for securitisation and applies to securitisations whose securities have been issued following the entry into force of the Regulation itself, so after 1 January 2019, the securitisation is defined and criteria for simple, transparent and standardised securitisation are established. It is considered that the securitisation is simple when it comes to the use of the same type of credit and that it is transparent and standardised when the issuer's request is used and completed by clear documentation regarding the structure of the instruments and payment schedules. 1% of securitisations can include several different sides, along with the initiators there may be representatives, managers.../incomprehensible/... assets, rating agencies and investors themselves. In that sense, I would remind you when we were making amendments to the law regarding investment funds that these appropriate provisions of the Securitisation Regulation were translated into that part of the norm. Mandatory risk retention is also required, which is very important and it is important to highlight. It means that it prevents loans or loans that cannot be recovered from the balance sheet from securitisation. A re-securation ban is introduced and could interfere with the level of transparency and re-securation is allowed only in specific cases. He would also further mention the obligation of deep analysis. The regulation therefore provides for the obligation to apply the depth analysis carried out by investors. As far as this is concerned, this bill has also been extended to pension funds and pension insurance companies for their systemic importance in terms of standardised transparent securitisations of those that I have said introducely.../incomprehensible/... securitisation and establish requirements for carrying out a deep analysis. It shall be ensured that an institutional investor in the Republic of Croatia in the case of investments in any securitisation position must carry out a deep analysis of such investments. Investors may collect the information to be published, which shall be published by the parties to the secturatisation in particular by STS notices and related information published in that context. In this way, obtain relevant information, obtain relevant information on how to meet the STS criteria, which certainly increases transparency for the parties involved in securitisation. As regards the establishment of repositories in order to achieve better market transparency, it is necessary to establish data repositories for securitisation transactions as central securitisation records to collect relevant reports, in particular in relation to securitisation exposures. The European Supervisory Authority for Transfer Papers and the Capital Market, etc. ESMA shall approve and monitor such securitisation data registers by ensuring that information in these registers is as much based on existing forms of publication of such information. The macro-prudential surveillance of the securitisation market by the European Systemic Risks Committee is also improving. Member States should also, under the regulation, also designate national competent authorities in charge of implementation in the framework of the establishment of a legal framework enabling effective monitoring and supervision measures. As competent authorities for the implementation of the Regulation in the Republic of Croatia, this proposal lays down the Croatian Financial Services Control Agency and the CNB and determines their supervisory entities and supervisory measures. Here, in short, it would be about this bill and I thank you all for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-26-0.u195213	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas. But before we go after them, let me maybe give you one suggestion just because it's a reading process, I'd like to replace the term securitisation with Croatian expressions. I'm aware that there's not one word that could replace that, but maybe if I had two, three words because I remember when we passed the factoring law that every time my ears burst because this one, maybe you could think about it a little bit, here.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-26-0.u195214	Yeah, the name of the regulation itself is that, so it would be good if we could translate it with at least a few words, but we're going to have a hard time.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-26-0.u195215	We have, we have replicas. He's the first respected representative of Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-26-0.u195216	Dear Secretary, here we are talking about colleagues and colleagues on the Securitisation Regulation, given the Croatian word, did not, did we have a translation, I don't know if they gave the translation. However, since this is about securities, it also means that the cause of the 2008 crisis was essentially all that is now being done. However, I see that the CNB regulator that was to regulate and the biggest economic crisis and bonds without cover used by Agrokor about 10 billion kunas were non-controllable, uncovered. So why do we still trust the same governor who led to the collapse of the economic then, and now in this crisis we talk about this law, i.e. This regulation would be good to remember certain measures that this government is now offering, and in fact these are entrepreneurs and businessmen who are going to be in trouble because they don't need a delay for their, a delay, the tribune of their giving, and of course the executions, there are many people blocked, so here I would like to see your opinion whether, do you have any new measures on this crisis right now? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-26-0.u195217	Thank you very much. It's not exactly directly tied up, but here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-26-0.u195218	Yes, thank you very much for asking. We agree it's not directly tied up. As far as the secortisation itself is concerned, I have also pointed out that in its nature it is not a pandan of what we all mean in terms of sales and demand and of these kinds of behaviours of economic operators that can lead, of course, especially if it is non-transparent to the problem in the business of another economic operator or citizen of course. As far as government measures are concerned, here is every day this person who is in charge of this report in front of the government or the crisis headquarters on his activities. And of course, as this same crisis headquarters in the section of the health segment does, measures in line with the situation on the ground and in the economy, so will the Government in the economic sector.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-26-0.u195219	Thank you. The next replica of the respected representative Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-26-0.u195220	Thank you very much. The Honorable Secretary of State just as you have pointed out is a key regulated market. So in a regulated market where relationships are very clear. And here we're actually talking about another model of creating a new model of portable paper, debt paper based on previous debt. We see that all the competent institutions have drained the sale of bank claims to their debtors, and there is, in fact, one space that has been misused and has actually led to significant difficulties in the functioning of our entire market, so finally, here your government has been doing write-offs that have been linked in many ways to such forms. I'm just asking, do you think the market that we have now is sufficiently arranged so that we can support this bill with us and that it will not come to such negative consequences? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-26-0.u195221	The answer of a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-26-0.u195222	Thank you very much. As regards the regulation of the capital market itself, I would remind you, in recent months it has been initiated and in this high house there has been a debate on the change of the very legal norms that regulate it primarily in relation to the Capital Market Act as a roof rule. It is clear that certain powers that supervisory authorities should have in that part, first of all here I think of HANFA as a regulator, should be more explicit in some things, and in terms of the securitisation itself, as I said in the opening statement, it as a norm, as an activity has not been adequately solved so far neither at EU level nor in the Republic of Croatia. The transposition of this Regulation aims to regulate this norm precisely in that part to encourage so-called ‘. Standardised transparent securitisations shall not be those that would be non-transparent or risky with a risk-free risk transfer as I have said in terms of the sale of loans that are not chargeable. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-26-0.u195223	Thank you very much, that's it. Does the committee reporter want to take the floor? No, I don't. Then I will open the debate and the first one on behalf of the Living Wall's Club and let's change Croatia's speech by distinguished representative Ivan Lovrinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-26-0.u195224	Thank you, Madam Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State, and I particularly welcome you the citizens who follow us. It's a difficult time, I welcome you all over the Republic of Croatia. I was driving this morning from St. John's Zeline because I got separated for the safety of family, little children. I'm looking at our officers, doing their job well, a few people on the road through the worlds. I welcome all of you. But this time can be used and positive to hear and discuss how some law, the bill can be applied specifically well in the Republic of Croatia. The experts of the Party Change Croatia, economists have two proposals that I will make here today because you see the very word securitisation, and that means nothing to an average citizen, but it doesn't, it doesn't say, I'd rather turn off TV and something else. But you'll see that they can do extremely good things, but if they're conducted under strict supervision by both states and certain institutions, otherwise this could be weapons of mass destruction as it was in the case of the 2008 crisis. in America. I'm also professionally involved in this area, but I'm not meant to lecture on it, but citizens expect to hear exactly what it's for, which can be used for. So here, I'm going to make two concrete, two concrete proposals on behalf of our experts. The first is the securitisation of all loans that the banks have sold to debt enforcement agencies. You see, there was no securitisation with us, but banks were their claims, so-called. Bad claims sold to debt seekers. Now how could this happen or now make it into a securitisation? That's what I'm gonna talk about right now. Dear citizens I know you've had enough of the hollow stories from the assembly already waiting especially for you blocked this is a story for you, this is a model for you, this is a story for 230,000 people who are under blockades and who we can free from debt slavery. How? Here's to a few steps. So the first opportunity was made is a mistake and so far the banks have sold about 38 billion kunas of their demand for bad loans so-called, the discount was big, to round up 38 billion kunas they've sold to debt enforcement agencies for about 11 billion kuna, so it's a huge discount you see. And they didn't immediately offer citizens let's say that citizens buy these 38 billion kunas for 11 billion and get rid of the story, but they didn't. But here's what we're suggesting we get rid of it. So these debt enforcement agencies are harassing people because if the bank isn't like the most organised institution in accordance with the law, it couldn't collect those loans, so it sold them so cheaply, so it means that everyone else who bought it has to carry out some kind of terror to collect 100%. So what's the idea? The idea is next, of these debt agencies will set up a fund, a fund that will offer, so we can't take those people away from you, if they paid 11 billion, and they must have charged something, but well this is a model, the state will offer them 12 billion, something they have to earn. If he's not going to sell by accident, then he's going to have to pass the extra tax code, so the next day he's going to want to sell it himself because this is saving the people. And saving the people must be the highest law in Croatia. There is a Latin saying that saving the people must be the highest law, and we are in such a situation. This crisis that we have not only come into but indeed many others are also the opportunity to solve these terribly difficult problems. To get back to this, so the state is setting up a fund, that fund offers 12 billion kunas to debt enforcement agencies and, say, the consent, those claims come into possession of the state fund. And where did this fund get the money? Now, this big operation can't be done without a central bank, the central bank will approve if it's average say that the maturity of all these loans is 10 years then the government's fund will broadcast this bond for 10 years right, and it will offer everyone a ransom, the interest will be higher than it is in banks, they are in banks insignificant 0.1, 0.2 that no one will save, here we give 2%, and of course when it's a 10% higher contribution that people will buy, and the state gives a guarantee. Now what's going on? So that I don't owe it, that you citizens understand, when the fund buys those loans and broadcasts the bond bought by citizens, businesses, banks whoever it wants, that fund will continue to charge those loans for 10 years as it was. But what's the point? Citizens will not pay 100%, and no one will harass them and call them by phone and their neighbors, relatives, but will pay 40 to 45%. Do you think, dear citizens, this is a good thing or do you think this is a good story? You see, this is what happens in orderly countries. Of course, I already said at the beginning this is a securitisation, when the vice president asked if there was any Croatian expression, we could say it's a pop-up claim or it's turning the search into securities, now there are claims from the banks from the citizens blocked we're turning into a state bond, selling it on the market behind it by the state giving a guarantee and my people solved the terrible problem. And after this operation we have 230,000 people times 3 of their families who are free and free from debt slavery. Here you see, dear citizens, only knowledge is power, concrete suggestions, and now it's an opportunity not to suffer our people because of the virus, because of the earthquakes and they're still blocked and still in debt slavery. Here's my proposal, he's specific, and I ask all of you MPs to support him. It doesn't matter who brought it out, forget it, but let's save our people if it's hard for them today or not because it's a large part of the Croatian people suffering because of these blockades. So you see, dear citizens, this is easy to solve. Now somebody's gonna say so wait till you think the National Central Bank is gonna give 10 billion to pay off these, so it's not the property of someone from Mars. So what's the U.S. Central Bank doing, Swiss, French, German? They're doing the same thing. Unloved billions of dollars, francs, euros are being put into a system of projects like this. Why? To sort it out. So I said I didn't intend to tell sophisticated stories here because it doesn't mean anything to you. About what securitization is, which would be if, by that, when this crisis is over, but let's let the people handle this. But the respected citizens who are blocked, there are 230,000 of you if only you went out to the polls and only you gave a vote to those who know how to handle this, so we would settle it. This requires political will, beware, can't Ivan Lovrinović or a few other MPs here propose a model and come voting and they say, listen can't, they know that intimately well-loved citizens, they know that this is a good solution, wonderfully, right, but it comes from the opposition from this which keeps saying something here, but my people now need solid, radical, state-run decisions, we need to free people from this burden. What's the other problem? The other problem is agriculture, the same their loans should be bought from banks also this fund, all markets should be opened to my men with masks to be sold. It's in the markets, let's be more open to selling and safer than in consummation and indoors. Well, I can't have people sitting at home. Let's open up the markets, give the farmers, finance the crops, stop the moratorium from paying off all their debts. So by securitizing, we can solve their problems. Here I am standing open to you if you have any questions, this is a good story. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-26-0.u195225	Thank you very much. The next club of MPs is the SDP on behalf of which the respected representative Boris Lalovac will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-26-0.u195226	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. In front of us today is the proposal for a law implementing a regulation establishing a general framework for securitisation and establishing a specific framework for simple, transparent and standardised securitisation whose securities were issued after 1 January 2019. So there has been no legal framework in the Republic of Croatia for this form of securitisation, or as we have heard here that this is the process of converting into intolerable forms of demand so-called. Credits in transferable instruments i.e. securities. The basic objectives of this Regulation are to establish criteria for simple, transparent and standardised securitisations, meaning the establishment of the same type of credit, the request of the issuer, shall be complemented by clear documentation relating to the structure of the instruments and payment schedules, and the provision of mandatory risk retention, preventing loans or loans that cannot be recovered from the balance sheet from the securitisation. The securitisation data repository is prescribed, the transaction means there is one central record in the securitisation supervised by the European supervisory authorities. One securitisation business can include several different sides, along with the initiators there may be a service agent, asset manager, rating agencies and investors. A resecuritisation ban is introduced which could hinder transparency, is allowed only in special cases and improves maximum surveillance of the securitisation market. The introduction of this law into our system shall designate HANFA and HNB as national supervisory authorities for the implementation of this Regulation and their supervisory and supervisory measures. It is ensured that an institutional investor in the Republic of Croatia means national and extended to pension funds, to pension insurance companies for their systemic importance in investments in any securitisation business and the aim is to carry out a deep analysis. The objective of securitisation diversification of sources of funding, risk allocation across the financial sector and the provision of additional sources of funding that depends to a lesser extent in the banking sector, thus achieving the objectives of a strategic and more sustainable financial system. The securitisation contributes to the distribution of risks across the financial sector and can also contribute to the release of the share capital balance that was otherwise intended to cover the credit risk that was sold. That's what the law says. What does real practice say? Since the European Commission introduced this law or this Directive in 2019, the EU securitisation market has fallen significantly. Why? Because this law introduces order into the securitisation market. The European securitisation market has been set up here since 2008, at 819 billion euros, so that's before the crisis period. In 2018, it is 269 billion euros, and as soon as this directive was introduced, it would be standardised not to have a variety of certain resales past certain control mechanisms, the securitisation market in the first quarter of 2019 is 32.4 billion euros, which is 63% decline compared to the last quarter of 2018, which means that this directive will completely change the securitisation market within the EU, which shows a significant decline, thus increasing the criteria, has introduced additional controls and has made it impossible to resell bad loans. Is someone when they buy that bad loan in the end when they turn a bad loan into a financial instrument or into a securities what happened in 2008. In 2008, that's exactly what happened in 2008, just so you know about the ratio. So America currently has about 3,000 billion securitized types of assets that have been converted into securities. And then in 2008, there's a lot of money on the market, banks don't know what they're going to do with that money, they're going to get loose criteria, they can each get credit, they pump up certain economic activity. Anyone who gets credit, banks do what they do, securitize or resell that property, repack it into securities, that securities comes into the financial market and gets from Triple-A rating agency, that all of this is good, that they have rating agencies that determine that these are the most qualitative securities. What's going on in 2009? These citizens can't repay those loans, they can't repay them anymore, the rating agencies lied when they gave such securities a 3A ratio and there was a market collapse. Why? Because it's very similar to this virus, no one knows who has that securities and then panics on the financial market. So it is then found that both insurance houses and pension funds and in Norway are located both in Germany and then simply everyone is trying to get rid of those securities that have Triple-A markings, that they are top quality, that they are best, that they will not be able, that they will certainly, that and the basis that loans will come back, however, there is a market collapse and there is an escape or mass sale of these securities. What the EU Commission does and then the process goes on, goes on in recession, goes on to help the state. So what does the EU Commission bring in 2019? It introduces standardisation of these processes, means that it cannot sell bad credits, that it can be loans, at least it says this Directive, that it must be loans of the same risk, that it cannot continue to transfer that risk to the ultimate one who receives that securities without knowing what it has in that securities. That's the most important thing, so the ultimate one is protected. Because who are those final ones who buy those securities? Peace funds. And when pension funds buy up securities that cannot be marketed tomorrow, and when they fall significantly, there is a risk of pensions and therefore this directive, and you see what it has done on the EU market, a drastic decline in securitisation, from as much as 60% compared to the last quarter of 2018, there will be a full change in the securitisation that was present in the US compared to Europe. Otherwise, Europe, as one of its sources, uses loans, very little uses such securities that are repacked in some form of claim and this Directive actually sets a very clear standard and some protection of the credentials, or ultimately, owners of these securities. And that's why this securitisation that we're talking about today is a better solution. Why? Because yet now he's setting up, as much as he is, people have an aversion to what happened in the past, I'm setting up certain control mechanisms. So, here, we from the SDP Club will support this form of the directive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-26-0.u195227	Thank you very much. The next club of representatives is that of the Independent Youth List, which will be spoken by the respected representative Tomislav Panenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-26-0.u195228	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Of course, this law has a special weight if we look at the circumstances in which it happens. The EU's intensity when it wanted to approach the arrangement itself, as well as, here's a colleague of Lalovac's before me was actually to avoid the risks that arise, and the risks themselves stemming from the situation that is already happening to us and that will actually be escalated in future times, which is how banks will approach business with their clients in conditions in which their clients will find themselves, which will be the conditions of actually crisis situations. A number of models are being considered, so there is a Croatian bank association and has proposed the creation of a state guarantee scheme for banks. There you would have, in a way, connected to the exposure and professor. Lovrinovic, who is in that direction, if at this point the banks are proposing a state guarantee scheme for them, then there is that reverse model, and that is the state guarantee scheme for those who are debtors. So we can approach it that way so that banks stay in their regular business, and those who are debtors get one support right from the state that needs to be cared for at the end and most. Now, of course, in these conditions and instability, banks will find various models by which they can primarily turn their hard-to-charge claims into liquid assets, meaning from an inequitable, inaccessible state to something they can use. If we look at the model that I have here and in the replica, it is a simple sale of claims that is eventually lost from the institutional supervisory framework, then there can be special situations that further affect, not perhaps so much in the obligation but in the way of trying to collect obligations and what results, that there are special conditions for debtors in which they are physically harassed, in fact I wanted to say, being harassed by various forms, and also physical harassment happens. When we talk about securitisation, it is enough to say what history there is when they also called it a satanic weapon and then it is clear that both the EU and the right to approach this issue to prevent attempt, primarily by financial institutions that have abused it. The most common model is actually the separation of certain assets from the parent bank or sponsors, and in this case we will be able to talk about banks that are domestical in another country, either Austria, or Italy, which have their own businesses with us. They will, too, try to convert certain claims that may be more difficult, inaccessible, into chargeable liquid assets and create, what we have already met, special legal persons or SPVs that have precisely a special purpose. On this basis, issue new debt securities again and create liquid assets, for what purpose? Finally, the goal is to isolate the property of the parent society in order to support, as is said and a little earlier, its rating to protect itself from the risk and it happens to you that it is about trying to protect the parent home society from all the risks of being as stable as possible, and everything that has to fail it is fired and then lives are moving on again. However, all the users of these societies that are in trouble are also much bigger problems. So also on the side of the Club of Independent Youth List, we will support this bill, but we are warning only that the banks will not, just as it is said, try neither to use such forms or in a very small and small proportion, and that they will look for all other forms that will try to be more liquid. Finally, we need to understand that this is something that every entrepreneur, a natural person in times of crisis, is trying to be as liquid, more capable, more mobile as possible, and also when we talk about banks, I understand why the state needs to prescribe frameworks in which such institutions will act so as not to be able to further compromise the financial system with their mobility and further endanger the many debtors who will have problems in repayments. I would only warn once again, and these are a number of entities that appear throughout the process of securitisation, these are from the initiators of the financial institution, so there are arrangements, repairers, asset management managers, rating agencies, you see how many risks there are that any of those who are in this series of abuse their position and thus create a problem throughout the system, so that the design of their activities is something that is partly covered by this law, and also by other HANFAs and other organisations and institutions should be significantly monitored, especially in today and in the time that comes to us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-26-0.u195229	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is the HDZ on behalf of which the respected representative Ivan Shuker will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-26-0.u195230	Thank you very much, Vice President HS, colleagues and colleagues. At the beginning of the debate salutes all those who fight for our health and take care of... and full of their support. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] And when we talk about this law, I unfortunately get the impression that many have not read the text of the law because if we tried to securitize translation into Croatian, then we could say that this is a process in which a lender like a bank reshapes loans he owns, for example. Mortgage and replace them with securities. The second thing, all these directives relating to the financial sector in a certain way, those that regulated the financial market, I will talk about it a little bit later, admit certain mistakes and failures that happened, and something also spoke about by my colleague Lalovac, at a time of great economic and economic and financial crisis. So, what happened after the crisis? At the time of the crisis there was a general shortage of capital, after some time there appeared, a large capital on the financial market which, due to its shape, its choice and its way of using and making available to those to be used, could not be touched by those who, at that time, were and are carriers of the economic recovery of the complete EU, which are small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. Do you know that small and medium-sized entrepreneurs can't practically quote on the stock exchanges, they can't be listed on the stock exchanges, they can't get extra capital in that way. Now, those who have these resources are simply, they needed to find a way and a place to reach small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. And then the logical thing is that someone forms the risks that he has, to turn them into some other instrument in such a way reduces the need for his own capital to prevent these risks, and opens up space for another capital to get to where he needs it. This is the simplest language to explain one very, very complicated transaction. Why am I saying that? Well, because it simply wants to redistribute to a wider financial market, and now I come to the text of the law. In addition to the first 4 articles that give a notional explanation, give technical reasons, very interesting that practically from the 5th to the 14th articles and that is almost around 10 pages of text, deliberately speaking these numerical indicators, talks about control. Because the fundamental intention of this law is to control risk prevention, prevention of abuse and prevention of any interference within the financial market. And again, I'm going to say something that I repeat all the time when I'm talking about funds, when I'm talking about this fund-raiser industry. So which two institutions need to exercise control so that such things do not delay. HANFA, therefore the Agency which deals with the supervision of the non-banking financial sector and the CNB. These are the institutions that we have and which, in cooperation with the Central European institutions, should prevent certain things from happening. Now one, actually two large questionnaires. The first is, do we in the Republic of Croatia have a financial market that could satisfy this together? Unfortunately, we don't. Because when you look at the traffic markets of Zagreb you practically... After those large listings that took place and sold in 2007-2008, you did not practically have any more significant events on the Zagreb Stock Exchange. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] So that capital market in the Republic of Croatia is unfortunately what it is. So, on our market come players who are very good in shape, and they are very trained in how to behave and how to place these funds. And when you take from the other side the owners of the financial sector in the Republic of Croatia they come from the same area that those others are coming from, and therefore is aware of the fact that the same thing is happening in Europe, aware of the fact that this system needs to be controlled, so this law actually deals most with the institutions that need to be controlled, the way that it is controlled by practically technical processing and the other thing defines certain things that simply cannot happen in this process. Now, today, you tried to compare it with the sales that banks sold to agencies, the sale of bad agency claims, and this to say if we don't use this securitisation, we can say the term reshaping these are two completely different things. The bank doesn't sell anything. The bank only changes something one instrument for something, comes to funding, and someone else takes over that instrument, thereby charging for what needs to be charged, how much capital it has received on the basis of that loan, and the bank has therefore received new funds that can be placed into some new projects. It's a logical thing, if such transactions happen that control is necessary, because at the time you do business on the stock market, you don't know where your securities are. Those valuable securities, which are safe and which have a good contribution to them are not traded much. There's a lot of trade in paper that's variable, they're worth as much today, tomorrow as much and there are speculative estimates of how much they're worth to whom they're worth. You just don't know where those papers are. And that is why very often the debate about the NHB and the HANFE, regardless of all their virtues and faults, bothers me for reasons if we want to allow Croatian entrepreneurs to reach cheap capital and capital under which, under the same conditions that their colleagues are coming into the EU, we must also make it possible, but we must ensure that all of this is monitored together. Therefore, as an institution which unfortunately was transformed into a bureaucratic institution in 2012 should be strengthened, they should be given room to be educated because when you look at new sources of funding they are far more connected to financial, not banking, financial institutions that oversee HANFA than those financial institutions in the banking sector that oversee the CNB. And that's why the importance of HANFE is and how important it is simply that things don't happen to us because look, we are able, unfortunately, from one technical law to come to a big political debate. This area that we are talking about today is securitisation or reshaping or whatever we want to call this in Croatia very few people know and very few people deal with it, but the message of the legislator when you see what the law contains then it is crystal clear. First of all, control, control, control, enable whoever wants to invest money and replace the practically loan to replace that mortgage to make a depth analysis, to get data on what they invest in and how they invest for the simple reason that this bad thing doesn't happen. And secondly, let's not bid on CNB funds. The biggest thing is that the government of the Republic of Croatia, the CNB and the entire financial sector, I was saying this for the last time, I think that insurance companies should be involved because they have a lot of obligations for our entrepreneurs who are at this point the most affected by the payments of this policy and until they are worth it. So let's just not throw these money away because the economic situation, and this situation in the budget, is such that we will have to use them rationally, because no matter what, no one will give you money. And so let us take advantage of this good situation that as a member of the EU we have access to certain, not certain but large financial resources that we have not had so far, we have one flaw which, which is that we are not a member of the euro area and we have, I sincerely hope that both the Prime Minister and the finance minister will solve this because we have a certain obstacle to getting to the European Central Bank's funds, and how we are dealing rationally with the funds we have because we will need it. Nothing's gonna stop overnight, that we're gonna wake up in the morning that everything's gonna be okay, let's treat these financial assets extremely rationally for two reasons. Because from them we will finance those who fight daily for our lives, and these are health workers, police officers and all others, and on the other hand we should also finance those who will give new breath tomorrow in the recovered lungs of the Republic of Croatia, which is the economy of the Republic of Croatia. So, first of all, responsibility, responsibility, and this law calls for it. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-26-0.u195231	Thank you. The following is the GLAS Representatives' Club on behalf of the respected representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-26-0.u195232	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues allow me to take this opportunity to welcome all those who are working on our safety right now, to protect health and to ensure the future of the entire society, of course, and those who are currently resting because they have just come from their shifts that will continue in the course of the day or tomorrow. First of all, this topic about Croatian terms, if we rape this situation that we need to translate into meaningless solutions, because our language is not so rich that we can translate other words in one word, on the other hand, and in this vocabulary, we should also give up and phrases such as funding, credit, lying, etc. It is a single EU legal framework, it has its own terminology, it would not be bad to keep it, but as possible, if of course we understand it. This is a topic that can be understood by a relatively narrow circle of people, this is a specific one of the financial problems. Not all bankers are on this subject, let alone us. However, here we should say a few words as to why the EU has approached a very important process, which is to fix the situation in the securitisation area, i.e. the introduction of clear, transparent rules that would prevent further abuse of this financial process, which, we must say immediately, have been invented by American financial institutions in the 1970s. And then it became a widespread practice in which, not only banks but other financial stakeholders began their claims, say, loan banks, but many others did so with their financial instruments, such as, for example, credit cards, lying, car purchase credits, etc., practically converted into other financial instruments. So something that's high-risk, they tried to turn into less risky and in this way, in fact, which was key and fundamental to their interest, erase less risky claims from their balance sheets, to actually show their better financial blood count. It's gone all the way down to debilitation, to perversion. One of the consequences of this was the additional weight of the financial crisis, which, to be clear, was generated in 2008 by the financial institutions, i.e. the financial sector. One of the elements why this financial crisis was very difficult and it was precisely that the whole securitisation process was so wavering and completely non-transparent for years that it actually led to chaos in the financial market. And then, of course, all those banks, first of all, but the pension funds came into a position to become inequitable and knock, to whom? State, taxpayers. Remember how many billions have been broken in large countries, according to large banks, so the entire systems don't collapse. The EU has approached this problem practically immediately. It has conducted full studies in 2014 in order to identify with one deep analysis how much this measure goes into securitisation, how it is all implemented, and how much this actually endangers the financial capacitation of the entire Union, in order to actually come up with a way, rules and framework, to protect it from some future financial major crisis, i.e. to prevent a future new recession, to which, by force of mind, law, economics always comes one day, from such financial actors. So, for five years, practically, the EU created a document that came into force in 2019 and according to what counterpart Lalovac said, it was already seen, already in 2019, that the effects of the order were actually strong when you introduced it. So it can securitize, it's no problem. So banks and other financial actors turn their high-risk clients into less risky but no longer the same way they've done it before, not in a way that brings out entire equilibres in which, ultimately, you don't know where the risk of such an investment and the sale of claims is anymore. So don't let one loop happen that'll bring the whole system down. No, everything can, but by clear criteria, must be transparent, there must be a regulator that monitors it, there must be no re-ecuritisation, therefore further tampering of financial relations. It can, only in a certain very, very small number of exceptional cases and again, under very strong supervision. So the EU has done something that is very, very important to us. We are a small market, but we are part of a major European market and in this sense we must understand and act as is, in fact, for the long-term or long-term well-being of the EU itself and its financial stability. This situation now where the entire European economy, of course and the financial sector, is practically in completely insane circumstances overnight, unexpectedly brought to face a new challenge. And this is not only whether the creditors will be able to repay their debts and secure liquidity from which they will service their liabilities, but also asked the banks to invest additional funds in these situations, under 1, under 2 refinancing, under 3 additional. The EU estimates that if securitisation is done according to the rules of the Regulation and ordered that European banks will free up to about 150 billion euros of funds without any problem, if they want to go into securitisations, which they can then continue to place according to their business policies. Of course, it's just one element of this situation. The most important element will be the communication of the European Central Bank to the banking system. So if the Central Bank stands behind this project of financing additional needs that are truly remarkable, then of course all other banks will line up in that order because they are interested in keeping their balances, their liquidity and long-term claims, so whether they will postpone, put up a moratorium, it's always less painful than actually losing those who owe them. I believe, given that coordination at a very high level is among all key financial actors in the EU right now, also among the governments of the strongest economic actors in the EU such as France, Germany on the financial monitoring of possible solutions to this crisis that will ultimately... the crisis will lead to as little damage as possible. From our perspective, of course, of a small economy and a relatively small financial sector, we feel how difficult the problems are already, and by, say, being closed for a month or two, this leads to a whole chain system of job loss reactions, financial indifference and the worst possible forms of risk to business and the future. Now imagine what with the big economies that are also going through this same drama as us. Therefore, harmonize the approach, some countries are faster at this, but I believe that the EU will also give a whole set of very useful solutions in this regard, and that the Republic of Croatia will have a financially strong injection, understanding of the use of existing financial instruments such as EU structural funds, or EU funds, and that we will get over this crisis with common policy at EU level as softly as possible. In any case, the Club of the Civil Liberal Alliance will support this proposal in its first reading, and we already see that there will be no problem and that it will soon be brought to another. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-26-0.u195233	Thank you. And now it comes to the turn of the club of representatives of the HNS on behalf of which the respected representative Milorad Batinic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-26-0.u195234	Dear Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. One namely technical law implementing the regulation and perhaps a proposal, but already now and late, we should have done so in an important procedure because I think this is extremely important at this point and what are the forecasts regarding our legislation and the financial market, the financial sector as a whole. There was a dilemma securitisation, which means? Latin “securitas”, security, means in some way by means of a financial dictionary the translation of less liquid claims into, let’s say, those related to credit or something similar to a simple dictionary or the possibility of sharing risk to others. But that doesn't mean that whoever credited it doesn't bear part of the risk even if they give someone a certain claim. I think that this is a more professional topic, politically the HNS club will support because a legal framework has been given which has not been in the Republic of Croatia so far, and in history we know very well, we testify that a number of banks have also been in very difficult situations precisely because they have not been in the issue of credits themselves, nor have they done deep checks on the borrower, they have not provided collateral in an adequate manner, and it has happened in practice that to a large extent it was the state that had to plant its back financially to save certain banks. With the application of this Regulation, this should go in a completely different direction, so the primary key word is safety and what is important is that the HNB regulators are also prescribed to monitor the entire processes. What is also from the world and European experience has been said, I will only repeat why it is important in this situation in which we have found ourselves, in this way in which, of course, there is an interest in securitisations based on this regulation, certain banks will be able to free up a large part of the capital in Croatia, not only in the EU, and this capital will be more than needed for recovery and our economy, as well as for the EU economy. What was also important before you testified we in history credits were credited in various ways and the practical risk was not controlled in a way if the claims were passed on to someone else. This is extremely important because one large part of the possibility exists through pension funds, pension insurance companies that are of systemic importance to the state for having certain security and stability if they enter the securitisation processes. And what is particularly important in the issue of securitisation itself is an extremely important deep quality analysis which also the regulator has control over, and I believe that in the first time there may be no more available capital in the capital markets, however, when things are reduced in one more quality way, when certain banks that resell claims today, I believe that the financial market will also be improved in Croatia, more stable, more securely and that this regulation that speaks means secturitisation, security primarily to fulfill its role. The HNS Club will support this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-26-0.u195235	Thank you very much. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first was to be a respected representative, Ivan Pernar, I don't see him, he's gone, so we'll move on to the next individual debate, and this is the respected representative of Domagoj Hajdukovic, about the pardoned Domagoj Ivan Milosevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-26-0.u195236	The Honorable Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, secretary of state, so what we're discussing today is a good and useful proposal. In some normal times, I would be happy to discuss it in detail, but I think my colleagues have said enough about this proposal before me. I agree with the vast majority of it, but I will focus in this short time as much as I have on two actually the key words concerning this law, but also the circumstances and the crisis in which we found ourselves, which is on the one hand the reduction of risk, and on the other hand the increase in trust. The crisis we find ourselves in, I think it's unprecedented, I don't like to compare with many previous crises, including medical, health, but it's unprecedented so much that I don't think humanity has ever faced this challenge before in times of social networks, smart phones and billions that are immediately getting information which times and wrong ones, and that's where I'm talking about false news first of all, risk reduction, increased trust. And that's why it's not easy to manage this crisis with multiple aspects. I will focus only on two aspects of this crisis in which we have found ourselves, on the one hand health care, which I think, given the circumstances and the neighborhood, we are very well dealing with, and I am joining thanks to all those and health care professionals and doctors, but also to all the other police officers who are dealing with these moments with this crisis and are not referring to what I'm going to say, and I'm going to say another aspect, and that's this socio-economic one. I believe that we, here we are not there much, but much wider than that I think of us politicians, the public sector I believe that we are aware that it is following us, so it is not a question whether, but only when we will cut public spending at all levels. So, from the central state to the lower level. It's important for at least two reasons, there are more of them, but I'll only focus on two given the amount of time. The first is for the sustainability of the budget, so why is it so important even though it sounds technical, so that it continues to pay pensions to our fellow citizens, so that the health system continues to finance itself especially at this time when the health crisis is and what will possibly follow, so that in the end-line states can and may be in charge of staying in the investment rating precisely to help their own economy. On the other hand, the reason for this is most important to me, which is the issue of solidarity. The issue of solidarity between the private sector and the public sector, or vice versa, has been quite unbalanced to say that it has not been violated in the past crisis that we have witnessed. The price of this was about 200,000 jobs lost in the past crisis in the private sector exclusively. Indirectly, we can bring about both the relationship and the consequent eviction of the past few years, but now we're where we are. So I just want to point out, and I believe that we've all learned enough, experienced enough, taught enough, understanding what the consequences are very close to us right now, at this moment, still, above all medical crisis and we're not going to drop our responsibility, solidarity with all people, those who are already out of work, those who are at a minimum tomorrow or in much more difficult situations. So here, that's what I was going to say, I believe we're all aware that we're all going to be economically damaged from this crisis, but that doesn't mean that we need to get out socially damaged, but I think this crisis is an opportunity for us to come out in a more united way and solve the problems that are ahead of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-26-0.u195237	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. He's the first respected representative of Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-26-0.u195238	Dear Milosevic, in your discussion, you mentioned the situation and preparedness for the economic crisis ahead of us. I am personally interested as an agent who deals with economic issues whether you think these measures are correct, enough that the government has proposed because we see great dissatisfaction with entrepreneurs, even yesterday they demanded the resignation of Minister Horvat who spoke of these measures very optimistically without realizing that it is not a question at this time of solidarity in a way that someone should give up something. Because most small and medium-sized entrepreneurs who don't work now are left overnight without income. So we need to act immediately, we need to show right away that these people can be helped not to talk about delays, but to immediately inject certain funds and to suspend contributions and pay contributions. So I'm interested in your attitude. about these measures or that you think they're enough? [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-26-0.u195239	The response of the respected Milosevic representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-26-0.u195240	Well, logically in the first days and weeks, focus was on health, medical, and people's lives. The government's reaction is quite the opposite of 10 years ago and I won't be returning to the past, but I will say the steps are in the right, the right direction, so aware of the depths of the problems that are just coming are taking measures. I expect that the measures that are ahead of us in time will be even faster, even more effective, even more deeply aware of everything that comes to us in terms of above all, as you said to medium and small entrepreneurs and craftsmen.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-26-0.u195241	The next is a replica of the esteemed representative of Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-26-0.u195242	A fellow Milosevic has opened several topics, but I think it should be clearly for the public to say, with 63 measures and with the amendment of 19 laws, the government has made it possible to give itself space to act and will act as the situation would be imposed because it is simply going now with this or that I don't think there is a need. However, what is very important you mentioned public consumption. By amending the Law on the Implementation of the State Budget and by adopting an opposition amendment which defines that the Government will report every 14 days to the Assembly, the Government has given itself space so that it can spotly change both the expenditure and the revenue side of the budget, so those positions that it considers simply cannot... Because of the new way they're going to reroute to what's very important. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, local self-government units should also be warned here to avoid major problems. Many of the activities financed from the local budget simply do not exist, they should act in the same way. So they're already supposed to to make such a decision. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-26-0.u195243	The response of the respected Milosevic representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-26-0.u195244	I agree, I agree with my colleague Shucker. I have also mentioned all the levels of the state administration to the lowest and overall public sector except those directly dealing with the crisis, not only the medical staff but also other public services, we also have in Zagreb in view of the earthquake that we have all been through together. As you said, measures, measures are sufficient, measures are correct, there is plenty of space and, and awareness of problems, talk daily with all professional associations, proposals are made, therefore both at the weekly level and the laws and regulations will be adopted. So we're deeply aware of what's ahead of us. We all, the government in general, have no dilemma at all, and we here in HS have to, I think we have to show this here, that awareness that we must send together unique, unique proposals because I think that in times of crisis we are all on the same ship, our ship is called Croatia, the Croatian economy and all employees in the private and public sector.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-26-0.u195245	Thank you. The next individual debate will be the respected representative of Domagoj Hajdukovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-26-0.u195246	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I would also like to begin my debate by thanking all those involved in dealing with this crisis and one and the other that has hit us, but I would especially like to thank the workers and workers who are not in the public sector, who are necessary for the daily normal functioning of our country including, of course, our services in the assembly, but also the sellers and sellers and all those other workers in the municipal activities without which it could simply not be possible to function normally, all the employees of HEP, the waterworks and a whole series of other services without which they could not function normally. I'm going to be very brief because a lot of things have been said about this law before. So here, for the first time clearly norms the general securitisation framework and that's very good. There's market order in place, and every order in the market is actually good. The very fact that, if we had recorded a drastic decline in securitisation after this regulation, the EU tells you about how many riots there have been, as far as there have been at least unspeakable, vague, and perhaps even gray ones, I would dare say, transactions, transfers, spillovers from hollow to empty, we will avoid this, by this law. I also think what I would particularly point out is that, you can't sell bad loans, so you don't have to be at the same risk which is extremely important if we want to protect end-users, in this case it's pension funds, and the speakers before me have talked about how important it is to protect pension funds because of the sustainability of the pension system itself. And in the end, I'd just like to say a few sentences about government measures. I have to say, to express my personal suspicion, I have no alternative but here at the pay phone, so I believe you'll allow me a two-second period. So that measures are unarranged, unclear, that often neither institutions nor employers, nor workers know how to consume them. We have to be much more proactive here because it is not a question of whether the economic crisis is coming, it comes definitely after these two crises that have shaken us and the earthquake, including Zagreb, so it is another additional difficult environment. No doubt today, economic, economic tectonic disorders await. We must be proactive here and, of course, even though protecting human life is now a priority we must also focus on protecting the economy, protecting jobs, protecting the existence of our citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-26-0.u195247	Thank you very much. We have one replica, the esteemed representative of Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-26-0.u195248	Thank you very much. Comrade Hajdukovic, the crisis is not only coming, it has already arrived. So at this point, a lot of people who have lost their ability to do, to work, service activities, tourism and everything that has been limited in the work these months, people are now home and are aware of the weight of the situation in which they are, not only have they found themselves but also after this crisis has passed how long it will take them to return to some normal. It is therefore surprising that the government has been able to come up with certain proposals and laws that would go for radical measures like this yesterday's cell phone surveillance bill, but unfortunately has not yet been found, we hope that it will soon find measures that will help the entrepreneurs who have stayed at home. At this point, we have nothing to do with delaying our contributions, and we need to cancel the payment of contributions and taxes to all those who do not have the ability to work and who are affected by this crisis.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-26-0.u195249	Thank you, the answer of Honorable Representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-26-0.u195250	Thank you. My colleague Maras, I couldn't agree more. The delay just means that you'll have to pay for something later, and since you don't know it again, because one thing is, one thing is certain after this epidemic of coronary crisis, the crowns of the virus, sorry, nothing will ever be the same again, especially the economy. The economy is that it will suffer a huge blow and already suffer, and that is why I said that we should be more proactive and more aggressive in protecting jobs, in protecting the economy. We have also suggested and suggested that we continue, so we are not only critics but we are also making proposals and I am afraid without any more determination, without stronger proactive consequences will be only much, much more difficult, or just delaying handling them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-26-0.u195251	Thank you very much. Next individual debate of the respected representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-26-0.u195252	Thank you very much, very much. Thank you very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very All those who look at us now, I believe there are plenty of people at home who follow what's going on in the Republic of Croatia, but also follow what laws and moves the government makes. Yesterday we had a law that was fairly radically supposed to regulate the surveillance of our citizens, although quite often people ask themselves, monitoring their cell phones in crisis situations, but what if people leave their cell phone at home and do not adhere to certain measures and their cell phone is monitored. So it should always be kept in mind that certain measures we propose are in a way that is made in terms of the Republic of Croatia so that we do not restrict the freedom of citizens, that we are trying to create and maintain the normal functioning of the state and that we are thinking about what will happen after the crisis has passed and this law on securitisation, that is, not the law but the proposal of the law on the implementation of the EU's securitisation regulation essentially opens up one topic which the Government unfortunately has not been sufficiently anticipated and has not offered enough good solutions at the very beginning of this crisis, i.e., as Mr Hajdukovic said before me, the economic crisis is not before us, we are in an economic crisis. Who doesn't understand it, unfortunately doesn't understand much, and therefore the measures we should be bringing to the economy are particularly important, they can't be delayed and they have to send a message to our entrepreneurs and craftsmen that we are all in this crisis together, that we can simply go through this crisis together and that once the crisis goes through together, we will be able to move on the economy and return to some of the positions that we had before the crisis itself. Securitisation or trading of claims also personifies one situation which has now occurred in the Republic of Croatia, i.e. the Government of the Republic of Croatia has decided to postpone payment of contributions for those who cannot work at the moment, means for entrepreneurs and craftsmen. Which, what's the point, is it's really hard to understand since people can't work, so the government has limited the possibility of people working. The crisis that has hit us also limited people to work because, it is impossible to work under these conditions and limit social contacts and service activities must thus submit a specific sacrifice, but it is not clear why the Government of the Republic of Croatia decided to maintain the obligation to pay contributions and taxes for these activities. It's really no one who thinks about the whole situation a little bit is not clear. Where do you get people to pay these debts in three or four months? Yesterday, we are listening to Minister Maric saying he will think about a roundabout payment. People can't work, we've regulated that they can't work, and now Minister Maric is thinking about how we're going to give them wars to pay for those contributions. I and my position and attitude of the SDP are absolutely that we need to suspend the payment of contributions and taxes at the moment when people can't practice and can't work and that they have to be helped and betrayed by what the Government of the Republic of Croatia has done in keeping their jobs. Because at this point, we are as a country in a position to see together how to keep people in those jobs and how to keep such consumption, given that people do not have incomes that they can make from their economic activities. So, all the countries have done this, look around us, Slovenia, Germany, Germany offers 80% of the salary, Slovenia 75% of the salary, I think Croatia should go in that direction, because who is now the only one, here is Mr. Shucker, who can borrow and provide some money to go through this crisis. It's the only country and it has to stand behind entrepreneurs and jobs. Do not charge what is charged will never be able to support financial entrepreneurs or direct incentives, meaning, by a certain amount that any entrepreneur would receive, as some countries have and made, or by loans that would be written off if jobs were retained, as some other countries do. So at this point we have opportunities and financial resources as a state to endure this crisis, but we can only do so if we all stand together behind the economy and our fellow citizens. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-26-0.u195253	Thank you. We have one replica, the respected representative of Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-26-0.u195254	Well, colleague Maras, you're absolutely right. Moreover, if we consider that one third of our GDP is exactly the most affected industry, which is tourism and hospitality and we need to be simply more proactive and much more aggressive in protecting our economy. You mentioned a Slovenian example, you mentioned a German example, Germany, if I'm not wrong about about 10 billion, has singled out only to protect one small segment of the market, and these are freelancers, so independent craftsmen mostly. Be careful, only for independent craftsmen who do not have permanent working relationships, who also pay flat-rate taxes, etc., let alone something else. So here is no longer a matter of desire or hesitation or conservative methods of protection, here we must be extremely aggressive and proactive. So we need to bring protection now so that the crisis after this epidemic will last as short as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-26-0.u195255	Dear Representative Maras, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-26-0.u195256	Thank you very much. Germany has taken a set of measures and is discussing them this week in Bundestag. This week, we're talking about who's ready and who's thinking about how to help the economy worth 750 billion euros. If the German and Croatian economies were compared, the Croatian government should take measures of at least 12 billion euros in that equivalent. Now, try to assess how much the Croatian government is currently intended to help the economy. 12 billion euros is about 80 billion kuna. This is what we should have discussed now and passed certain laws and helped the economy to behave in the way that most developed and advanced EU members behave. Unfortunately, we only talk in Croatia about delays, we do not talk about how to help people directly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-26-0.u195257	Thank you. It seems to me that my colleague Grmoya wants a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-26-0.u195258	Thank you, Vice President. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the MOST club, I've got people on the subject, and I'm asking the ministry's representatives to respond urgently to both the government and the CNB. Namely, what's going on? We've blocked the villages, people can't go from one municipality to another, they're blocked, they're people who can't use cards to raise money, they have to go to an ATM, they have to go to banks in larger centers, so people don't have any funds at all. Please respond urgently. I'm also asking the government of the Republic of Croatia and all the authorities that we're going to do with those blocked during this period, which we're going to do with the performance, under an emergency moratorium on top and give this problem a fix. Our older people can't get to the banks, to the counter where they can raise money, the cards don't have the ones that are blocked it's pretty clear, and even older people don't use it. We need to do something urgent, I hope someone at the Ministry of Finance, that someone in the government takes care of these people. Not only are our entrepreneurs who are shutting down business now. HGK released incredible data yesterday, almost cataclysm as many as zero kunas reported. So not only for entrepreneurs but for older people, according to our endangered, we need to show solidarity to our workers at this point, we need to recognize their needs. Does anyone care about these people? They can't get the money at all, they can't buy it, they can't buy it to those people if they call someone to bring them the supplies they can't even give them the money. No one's thinking about it. You've closed down municipalities and cities, so how can people even get to banks how to raise money, especially if they're in isolation. So they don't have access to any money.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-26-0.u195259	Thank you. Of course we'll approve a break. But a colleague of the Hrelja seems to be asking for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-26-0.u195260	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I am looking for a five-minute recess for further consultations, but to warn the representatives of the Ministry of Finance and the Crisis Centre that simply this total blockade in municipalities that are so small, which we simply see at this moment are the negative effects of this split of Croatia and economic and if we say in a social elemental threat are people because they cannot perform their functions normally. And we don't say anything about those who have a measure of isolation prescribed, those who went alone under self-insulation, but in the sense of following all the instructions given by the Crisis Command why so narrowly limit people. Yesterday, I was saying that in Pula, I couldn't get to the sand cove that's sitting right next to what's practically the construction part of Pula because it's in the Medulin municipality. It's things we can't set an ex cathedra like that. You should see and yesterday a proposal fell here that should allow people to move somewhere within the frameworks of the former community of municipalities, one slightly broader term. Of course, it is also a matter of pensions that will soon reach the pensioners in their accounts that should be adjusted as well. Whether Croatian mail can be brought back to the address can unfortunately result in unwanted consequences for us because of the inability to move, and in some ways they are targeted by old people like those who are most threatened to come to us with unpleasant situations.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-26-0.u195261	Thank you very much. Stanku will probably ask on behalf of the Live Wall Club and let's change Croatia and the respected representative Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-26-0.u195262	Dear Vice President of the Parliament. On behalf of the club We change Croatia and Live Wall I am looking for a break of 10 minutes because I get more and more memos and I'm called by people from different villages farmers to allow them to open markets because they simply can't, they don't know how they're going to live. A man called me from around St. John's Zeline... people have cows he doesn't know what with cheese you understand, he manufactures hard cheese, soft cheese you do with it. The second one says there's five tons of onions, how do you realize that? You see, when I was driving and leaving, people were disciplined, waiting in front of a bakery with masks two, three meters away, in front of butchers, in front of a supermarket, our people were cultural, they already understood the seriousness of the situation. But please, when you enter indoors and with a mask inside, there's air, and in the market it's open. So when people come in tomorrow, you open up the markets, when they come in with their products, so people can behave, they'll be back in line, and the air is open, so it's not a closed space. I know what I'm saying seems risky, but we need to bring a grain of reason into this. It's really less of a danger for people to get infected in the open, so they're back in line with masks than they are in a closed house. So, save the farmers, buy immediately the Ministry of Agriculture intervention program all food supplies, secure the purchase of wine, everything and get rid of the moratorium so that during the crisis farmers do not pay any obligations and save them from debt slavery that they had loans, they are now blocked because simply now the seed comes they must be given money to sow. We'll have food problems, and we'll have to eat homemade food instead of import garbage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-26-0.u195263	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club, a break was requested by a respected representative of Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-26-0.u195264	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, we are also looking for a break and these topics that are open here are absolutely important. So at this point we have several burning problems in the Republic of Croatia and the movement is certainly one of them. I get, we join this request that was made by a colleague of the Hill. It is now shown essentially in the movement of our citizens, especially in small municipalities, the total senselessness of such territorial organization or that we have to organise a different local self-government and it is more meaningful, the larger wholes have in a way that they can function in times of crisis in a way that works in some major cities. We can't have a situation where now in some small municipalities in the Republic of Croatia people can't reach the post office or the bank or anything because there's no mail or bank in their place or their municipality. This should be considered and some new measures should be given urgently now so that people can, in particular what Mr. Hrelja said is very important, pensions are coming soon and we need to think about how older people can reach certain means or in a way that they can function in the next period. The second thing, I must point out once again because this is about economic issues that the SDP Representatives Club has prepared today 7 laws, this week it all goes into procedure, we need to help entrepreneurs under emergency, right now. People have to have safety and people when they're in store, doctors can't tell each other that they don't know what's going to happen in two months and that they're going to live in two months. The state must send a message that it stands behind every job that was at the moment of the crisis. People must have that security, people must have the certainty that these 2, 3 months will endure and that afterwards we will start rebuilding the Croatian economy where unfortunately we had to stop at the beginning of the crisis. So, very clear messages And we want an emergency, urgent response from the government. [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-26-0.u195265	The next break will be the one they asked for on behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns' Club, Zeljko Glasovic and counterpart Hasanbegovic, the respected representative Zeljko Glasovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-26-0.u195266	I'd also ask for a break this lot of people call me there from the epicenter Markusevic, I know they're doing field service, that they're overloaded, but some people have kids, they don't know what they're going to do up there, some people are sleeping in garages, in basements, they're not sure, I think we should direct all the energy there. We know how triage is done and we have enough people, and I think we can make a synergy between the service, to help these people first because it's a priority now. We see what time it is, and I think we can take care of it as quickly as possible, it'll be better for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-26-0.u195267	Thank you very much. He also requested a break from the Labour and Solidarity Party Club. Here you are, on behalf of the club, will be the esteemed representative of Mader.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-26-0.u195268	On behalf of the Party 365, I'm looking for a break, because the same thing I have calls from a number of farmers, so the nearer agricultural crops are being prevented from moving towards their fields, so when spring crops are moving, there will be problems with the soil, with crops. There is also a problem that spring crops should be financed, so I urge the government to pay off this remaining part of the incentive as soon as possible. The deadline is 30.6., but to pay for this part of the incentives as soon as possible, and as far as the markets themselves are concerned. We appeal to open markets that, with all due respect for the civil protection headquarters, markets can be opened up in large trade chains, so markets can be opened with controlled entry into markets, with controlled labour in market lines, markets can work, so I appeal to the civil protection headquarters that markets can be opened to allow our small, primarily smaller family farms to be sold because if we destroy these small family farms, I'm afraid we don't stay hungry in our beautiful economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-26-0.u195269	Thank you very much. Of course now we'll take a break by 11 and 20. Thank you. THE PURPOSE
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-26-0.u195270	The Live Wall Representatives' Club applied and we change Croatia, on their behalf will be represented by Agent Ivan Lovrinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-26-0.u195271	Thank you. Dear citizens, here at the end of the debate on the proposal of the Securitisation Act I would like to address once again and especially in front of the Party Let's change Croatia because I made concrete proposals from our party's economic experts this morning to solve the problem blocked in the Republic of Croatia by around 230 000 and how to free them from debt slavery. All of you who haven't seen this, had the opportunity to hear a speech, you can look at our facebook page because it's a concrete proposal that will help, it's in the interest of the whole society and I pray, I appeal to the government who is now in power to really implement this useful proposal because it will really free people because we have problems with the virus, earthquakes anyway, and even when you're blocked, where did you get what the people say? On the other hand, this securitisation means the purchase of claims primarily from banks or the sale of credit claims by banks to someone else, another entity that is formed, which lasts as long as it means the securities, and we can finally solve it that way. But there's something else I want to point out here. It means we can securitize the problem of peasant farmers. A large number of our agricultural producers took loans in Swiss, a large number of them were blocked, they were taking loans for the purchase of machines, tractors, combiners, they were building farms, however, buying herds, and then they deliberately dropped milk prices, multinational companies came in and started breaking up that market, and we see what that came up with. We must save these people, or we must turn to domestic agricultural production. You see, from well-informed circles, I just found out during this break, that to increase imports of meat and vegetables from Italy, the helmets come, you know that there is no now because of this crowd, you can think about how control is, and during that time it means as the imports from Italy go and it blends into malls and people buy our, during that time our peasants have a problem selling their products that are much more quality, whether it's meat, vegetables, fruit, milk, etc. etc. So, please, this is a shock. Why can't this crisis be compared to any other crisis? So because, first of all, she came suddenly, she went wide, she went deep, she fell, the fall was extremely large in the short term. No one else can now, the market has been moved to the corner. Only now can state intervention save, but the state has no money. She has to, the Central Bank has to come on stage, my CNB people, they're dealing with themselves, and the government is dealing with it as we'll see how the measures go, and then we'll discuss it later. Dear citizens, I don't care to add oil to the fire here, I understand the difficult situation, we're all hit for it. But that's not why some things can be done not to be made, or to see how some measures are bad, etc. The farmers have to have their crops, now the crops, they have to be paid for what they need to sow everything they need, they have to buy everything you have at home, so go to the Ministry of Agriculture, get the ransom stations organized, the stock reserves, all that can be solved. During this time of crisis, peasants are not allowed to do anything, moratorium on loans, payment of loans, payment of pension, health care, all must stand up and open markets. You see, yesterday I saw and support, The Change Croatia Party supports, already 23,000 entrepreneurs created an initiative on the facebook profile instead of when I suggested a week ago in that assembly that every day we have a crisis headquarters for entrepreneurship, it is gone, they organize themselves on the facebook and seek, they evaluate these measures insufficiently, I will not say what they call them to not bring oil to the fire, but these measures are not what they are looking for. So, write down, no taxes, no contributions during the crisis. Fast liquidity loans, but nothing can be settled because here I, I am sorry, listen to representatives of opposition parties, there are no states swearing my people, no kuna, no help, only the central bank won't and I would not approve and watch whom credit is now risky, just the CNB, and he's dealing with please, he's dealing with some stability that has destroyed us both without this crisis.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-26-0.u195272	Thank you. Representative Lovrinović is out of time. This concludes the debate, and we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-26-0.u195273	Proposal for a Law implementing EU Regulation 2017/2402 laying down a general framework for securitisation and establishing a specific framework for simple, transparent and standardised securitisation, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 857. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: the said draft law is adopted; and secondly, all objections and proposals will be submitted to the applicant to consider them when establishing the final draft law. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I see we have four abstentions. So, I find that most of the votes have come to the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies, 125 for and 4 abstentions.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-26-0.u195274	The next item of the agenda is: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on concessions, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 856. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the The Rules of Procedure of HS. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Zrinasic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-26-0.u195275	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President HS. Therefore, as regards the Law on concessions, it was adopted in this high house at its session held on 30 June 2017. and published in the National Journal 69 of the same year. The law was adopted in order to comply with Directive 2014/23 of the EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 February 2014 on the award of a concession agreement, which should further contribute to the transparency of the conduct of concession procedures and have a positive impact on the creation of conditions of a fair competition in the implementation of small or larger projects which have a characteristic of the concession. In the meantime, the European Commission has carried out the evaluation of the transposition of the directive itself into national legislation into the Republic of Croatia and has notified the Republic of Croatia of the results of the evaluation and expressed its concerns and questions raised when verifying the compliance of the law with the directive itself. The Republic of Croatia sent its reply within the time limit set for it, two meetings were held with the European Commission representative and disputed provisions were discussed. Finally, since the provisions of the Directive have not been fully transposed in certain segments, the necessary amendments have been considered following the implementation of those consultations, which have achieved a lot of transposition or transposition of the Directive in question and have been made to amend the Law on concessions through these amendments and additions. I'd like to teach only briefly what are the basic changes and additions. ... amendments to the law propose to amend the definition of an economic operator which is more detailed as to who is considered an economic operator or directive, and the European Commission has also requested a broader definition than we have proposed. The provisions on the conflict of interest of persons involved in the concession procedure and anyone who may influence the course of the concession procedure in such a way as to link the same with the Public Procurement Act shall be specified. Therefore, the provisions of the Public Procurement Act apply in that part. Furthermore, the directive provides for the award of concession between public entities, they call it and the House concessions which our law did not provide for, or we do not want to foresee, so that the justification for not passing the directive is further prescribed through the provisions through the amendment and addition of this law in such a way as to prescribe that concession providers do not grant concessions to each other, and in particular to the Art. The 7th is added to the brand new chapter 7 if you allow it and I will read it. ‘Concession providers shall not grant concessions to each other, nor shall the rules governing public procurement apply, and in the part relating to contracts between public sector entities’. Furthermore, the directive also provides for a series of provisions on giving concessions in the area of defence and security, we also do not want to give in that part someone to get concessions and our system does not foresee it. And the justification not to transpose those provisions of the directive was necessary to ensure through an even more detailed norm within the regulation itself, so we are within the scope of Article. 4th century 2 with a provision already in place, which was added by the area of defence and national security in the sense that concessions cannot be granted. In addition, the other reasons for the exclusion of economic operators are further determined, or in the case where the concessionr may exclude the economic operator from the concession procedure, which the concessionr may benefit from in the concession procedure. ...or else it takes three years. So I'm just going to repeat or specify what the provisions are, so the exclusion goes for a reason, for example. the non-compliance with the provisions of the collective contract, in particular the payment of the contractual pay obligation, the opening of bankruptcy, if the economic operator is legally convicted of a criminal offence or offence in respect of the carrying out of a professional activity, then, if it can be demonstrated by appropriate means that the economic operator has committed a serious professional failure, if it can be duly demonstrated that the economic operator has concluded an agreement with other economic operators which are intended to distort competition, if the economic operator is, by reason of significant or persistent deficiencies during the implementation of the essential requirements of the previous concession contract, to terminate that previously concluded contract and similar norms. So it's already the norm that she was before and the measure goes on for three years as previously prescribed. The possibility of amending the concession agreement is specified, and then a more detailed way of calculating the new assessment of the value of the concession when amending the concession agreement is specified and further specify the provisions on the transfer of the concession and the possibility of establishing the right to be found, with the agreement of the concession provider. It also determines the existence of the possibility of procrastination, which is prescribed by a regulation more liberal than by the provisions of the law, while the conditions for the conclusion of a concession contract are still legally prescribed. So about 11 positions, which were based on the European Commission's request, were obliged to enter into the existing law norm, these amendments and additions were proposed to be introduced into the existing law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-26-0.u195276	Representative Gordan Maras has come forward for the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-26-0.u195277	Thank you very much. Mr. Zrinasic, here's my question for you first. You have relatively recently proposed this law in the Croatian Parliament means a few years ago, I think it is in this mandate, I wonder what happened so much in the meantime, which is why we have not included these things in these first amendments to the law that the EU and the European Parliament asked for? So that's a specific question. And another question that I am particularly interested in, how did the Government of the Republic of Croatia put itself towards the beneficiaries of concessions at the time of this crisis, depending on the payment of concessions given the inability to carry out activities, I am talking about the tourism sector? And I wonder, when will the Government of the Republic of Croatia decide to contribute to those entrepreneurs affected by the crisis not pay, do not delay but stop creating obligations in the Tax Administration towards those who are not able to work at the moment? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-26-0.u195278	Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-26-0.u195279	Thank you very much. As far as the norm itself is concerned, I will give one example as regards the European Commission's request, our opinion was that the current norm was more appropriate for us, but these changes require liberalisation of the set standards. For example, the definition of an economic operator that we have so far had by the classical definition of the Company Act is now being added to the branch or public body including any temporary association that defines the directive itself which goes this way and beyond the framework of this Company Act. So these are not some things that were unclear in our regulation itself, but the European Commission has asked not to do negative selection in this regard. This part that we've been strengthening in relation to the ban on giving concessions in terms of defence and national security, we've wanted to further highlight in the law, although the directive, let's say, allows it to be so [[Intruder: Thank you, time's up.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-26-0.u195280	Anka's representative, Dark Taritash, has requested a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-26-0.u195281	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, therefore, the reason for the amendment and supplementation is to comply with EU legislation, and I am interested in whether it was a pilot project, so it was specific about something or just a view of the whole law, because this part where liberalisation is absolutely okay and interesting that at this time we have this thing in this law. So I'll just say where the Croatian Parliament can amend the concession agreement when it is established that national security and defence of the state, the environment or human health are at risk. It's always an interesting time to argue. But my question, the replica to you, indeed, is whether it was a particular case, so whether it was a pilot project that was then either in principle in the review of legislation or certain laws, has stressed that it should be tied to the liberalisation of these sub-concessions, which I think is good that already when the concession is negotiated to define everything it should be. That way we'll solve a series of misunderstandings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-26-0.u195282	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-26-0.u195283	I absolutely agree with you, so the European Commission has also carried out the evaluation of the transposition of the directive itself and in this sense has sent us an official notice in 2018, and we have had discussions with them in the meantime to see whether this norm has been sufficiently transposed and those provisions that should have been restrictive and where national discretion of certain Member States is allowed, as we stated just before in the context of these decisions of the assembly or the transfer of defence concessions, etc. Therefore, the evaluation of the transposition of the Directives by the European Commission resulting in that official notice or injury.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-26-0.u195284	Thank you. Thank you, Secretary of State. Does the committee reporter want to take the floor? If not, I'm opening up a debate. For the discussion of the first club that reported for the participation of the Live Wall Representatives Club and let's change Croatia. Agent Ivan Lovrinović will speak for them. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-26-0.u195285	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, few of us are here, and we're 2 metres wide. Dear citizens especially welcome you, this is because of the trouble that has hit us and many other countries and peoples, we are mostly staying inside our home, follow surely television and therefore some of these discussions. Today we are discussing, but before I say so, I am transferring the views of us from Stanka We are changing Croatia on concessions I would ask you, Mr Vice President, to call the Bureau and inform the president of the assembly that we should put on the agenda and those topics that our citizens are interested in. First of all, I see around the media are very active, simply regarding the teaching of this crisis is looking for the possibility of tracking mobile phones for citizens where we are, etc. So wait, please, we can't be here as a council, the Supreme Institution, so all the points are fine, but this is a very important thing, put that agenda item on the table to discuss because the citizens are scared about it, I personally don't want anyone following me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-26-0.u195286	Representative Lovrinović, I must warn you, here's the moment that debate was yesterday.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-26-0.u195287	Well, I have to admit because of the restrictions I couldn't come yesterday because we split up, but we see that the decision should be made accordingly she didn't stop.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-26-0.u195288	I'd just be begging if you could be in this particular topic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-26-0.u195289	I'm going back to that as well as some other topics. So this is an important story. When it comes to concessions you see here, first of all, we are interested in agricultural land, natural resources, water, forests, etc., we advocate that unlike those of course who are liberal orientations, every honor, therefore we should push each one of our own along its track to make it impossible for foreigners to compete against these good ones. So draining water, using agricultural land, forests, they're the natural resources. Here, we heard just before from the secretary of state that the key objection was that there was still a need to liberalise the process of obtaining concessions. On the other hand, we see other countries in Hungary, for example. You can't get other countries agricultural land if you're a foreigner in a concession, you can't process it, so my people, it's logical, it's not because someone needs to fence Croatia because someone doesn't tolerate someone from another country, but first of all, agricultural land should be offered to our peasants, people living in these parts of like, Slavonia, Baranja, anywhere. Why? Because they live there, they have to survive there to keep the family. He can't, if we have two months ago I was in Slavonia and Baranja, people would have taken more land, but they can't come up with it for a variety of reasons. Just maybe two, three miles away where I was in Baranja show me White. It's a big complex. And here's the thing, I remember when we brought that, when that concession law was passed in 2017 and that's when we objected, and that's when we asked. We were particularly opposed when Lex Agrokor was brought in by automation, which gave you the right, it was, it was one violence, it was simply committed to violence to Agrokor, to transfer the concession from Agrokor to a new society called Fortenova. In what environment was such a law passed, and what was happening here? Then it was discovered that Agrokor was practically, and I suppose now, that he was getting hectares at a much more favourable and lower price than the same or similar country in Slavonia or Baranja meant small OPGs and agricultural producers that had already had 100, 200, 300 hectares. See, that's inadmissible. What's up, what's the message? It's privileged to mean those multinational companies, foreign companies, foreign companies that come to the Republic of Croatia, and what do they want in the end? Well, of course, the Republic of Croatia is required to liberalise concessions. Why? Because in this area, let's say from the Republic of Croatia, and there, according to the Balkans, the ground is still preserved here, not as polluted as in Western Europe. Here the water is still drinking, you can get drunk so on, in a lot of places of source water, it's no problem, the woods are and hence, there are these supplies of natural resources. Now we're looking for what conditions? So you have to be there for 10 years, you have to stay here, that a lot of strict conditions need to be put in order for you to get some land, and not that it's enough for you to start a company, so you take what I know, 500, 1000 acres, etc. etc. We've got to figure it out and draw a line. Which one? To make use of the damage we have from these laws that come from the EU. You see, the problem is why the EU project has stopped and why it is now going to get into an even bigger crisis. So because the human idea of the EU being one Union, one, let's just say, state of sovereign peoples, not instead of state and one Federation, confederate of sovereign peoples, it has become a Union of sovereign capital, and that capital, large capital, financial oligarchy above all, they do not tolerate borders, they do not tolerate national laws, they do not suffer any restrictions, so we see how much our agriculture has been destroyed, they have never produced so much. Imports are EUR 2.4 billion, exports are EUR 1.4 billion, they've never been worse, and we have the potential to feed at least one more maybe two Republics. That's why we need to reset the system here, we need to defend the national interests above all. When I say national interests, so those who live in the Republic of Croatia, they are farmers, water sources, so it's miserable how much the Republic of Croatia gets from a liter of filled water, from a spring taken into concession. Well, that's miserable. We've lost billions of kunas over the past few years due to low concession fees for oil, gas, water. When you compare concession fees for extracting or extracting oil and gas in relation to Hungary, which, for example, does so, it has significantly higher concessions. So we have one policy that's been dragging us down to the bottom for years, impoverishing us, and that's why we've lost billions. In this sense, we in the Party Change Croatia we advocate clear criteria, and that is, above all, that the country, agricultural land is assigned to people who live in these parts, to keep them, not to emigrate, to live on, that's the real thing, that's the real story. The matter of White, let's just take White's question, so it's a matter of national security for my people. Why? Because it's a border area bordering Hungary and Serbia. There's been a eviction there for years. Well, that's a couple of excelences. I warned you about that before 2.2.5. When this case started, the Agrokora problem. So, it's time to stop what we say, think about it if, as I said this morning, this crisis is looking for state moves, these aren't textbook solutions, and first of all we have to take care of national interests. I watch, these days I listen, a week ago, how problems will be solved in the Republic of Croatia, says they ask the finance minister, he says I run hasty negotiations with external lenders. Please nice, please, with external creditors? Therefore, this is about us having our resources, not to be in debt during this crisis abroad, we have our own central bank, we have if we have to and the foreign exchanges, we have 19 billion foreign exchange reserves, so that's the story. And to go back to the concessions now, so if you think my people have a law like this that suits anyone who comes, especially strangers, then give them and for nothing, then these concession fees are at the lowest level anyway, and that's why we're losing, we're losing billions. I am looking for a debate on concessions to suspend the payment of concession fees to the state by small and medium, according to small OPGs, medium-sized producers because now it's a crisis, they can't handle it, they can't pay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-26-0.u195290	A SDP Representatives' Club also reported for participation in the debate, Boris Lalovac will speak on their behalf, please. You can just wait a moment until the pay phone clears.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-26-0.u195291	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, my colleagues and my colleagues. In front of us today, there is a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on concessions. The amendment of the Law on concessions is based on the fact that the European Commission has carried out the evaluation of the transposition of the Directive into national legislation and has notified the Republic of Croatia of the results of the evaluation through an official notice, and has expressed its concerns and issues that it has raised in the verification of compliance. The Republic of Croatia has communicated with the European Commission, however today means their proposals must be adopted and this is how this law has been found before us today. This is one roof law, so the Ministry of Finance runs the roof law, the Law on concessions, while all these vertical laws are, in fact, laws in certain ministries, and the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Energy or the Economy, where we actually have concessions on energy, but this is one roof law that is actually a horizontally trying to regulate the issue of concessions and now because of the harmonisation and some further clarification, we are facing today this change that is being amended, as the proposing entity itself has said, the definition of an economic entity that is prescribed, which is more detailed, so this law further liberalises or extends that definition which has been adopted by other Croatian laws. So, the Company Act, so now it's actually a broader coverage. Furthermore, the provisions of the conflict of interest, persons involved in the concession procedure and anyone who may influence the course of the concession procedure, I think this is good and as regards this transparency of concession giving, that we have this provision in place so that these concessions themselves have another additional control and only a certain part of the control. Also, the Directive provides for concessions, meaning that between public entities, in a house, so-called. means a concession within the houses themselves, not to be, is it so that there is no more possibility of giving concessions, which I do not know exactly whether it was in the practice of such concessions, however, this Directive further explains that these entities cannot, in fact, grant concessions to each other. Also, justification is intolerance, so the Directive provides for a series of concession provisions in the areas of the ban on defence and security. Also, in the area here in art. 3. No concessions on forests and forest land can be granted. So here yet, even though this part is not given here is yet explicitly stated meaning which particular areas cannot be given into the area of concession. It is also necessary to ensure that the possibilities for amending the concession contract are specified in a way that erases the possibility. The Croatian Parliament may require concession contracts if this requires the interest of the Republic of Croatia. Here, at least so, the legislator actually proposes to delete this provision, given that it is general and that it is already prescribed in Article 1(1). The 62nd Act stipulates that the Croatian Assembly may amend the concession contract when it is found that certain national security and defence of the state are at risk, etc. This provision was also contained in the Law on concessions and, as far as you're saying, it's been written in the document, hasn't it been consummated so far. In addition, a more detailed way of calculating the new assessment of the value of the concession when amending the concession agreement is laid down, and further detail is given to the provisions on the transfer of the concession and the possibility of establishing the right to be found, with the consent of the grantor. It is more clear that there is a potential for debt, which I think is a good thing at first, as we have seen here today, that a clearer overall process is being set up and is more liberal than it is being prescribed, it is more liberal than the current law, however, they are necessary here to establish a certain whole process, i.e. ultimately having a certain control mechanism. The possibility to enter into a subconcession contract is defined in the framework of the tendering documentation, i.e., it is important that it immediately means that it means in the context of the application itself, that within and within the dossier it is stated, so that the future concessionaire is in advance familiar with the area in which it is possible to enter into a sub-concession contract. So it's very important that we know that there are no further changes, etc., so when given immediately, it's actually listed in the initial contract itself. Also, in conclusion, in order to further comply with the Directive, it is proposed to adopt amendments to the concession law, so it is a law of some 14 articles, which I believe now, to this opinion you have received a positive opinion from the EU Commission, I think, I suppose. So, I apologize, so this area of the concession law will now be fully harmonised. Here today was also the same talk about non-payment of concessions for this particular area, it is primarily thought about tourist concessions or various, those that have actually closed these activities, I think that one of the first tasks and this part of the concessions, that these 2 months, not only can be given a delay for the concession much easier than some other revenue, that it can go here to abolish the concession for the period because it is directly related to the use of this public goods, and I think that if there is no use of this public good, then there is no point in charging and fees and I think that the Government can, without any problem, come to the cancellation. This part of the revenue from concessions is, one part goes to the state budget, and one part goes to the revenues of the units of local self-government and the county and the cities and municipalities, so that, in fact, on this part of the concession, we cannot do a write-off of this law because it is a roof law, however, it can do so to any municipality, county, or unit of local administration that actually collects that part of the revenue and in order to facilitate the local entrepreneurs that part of the income of the local community will believe that, not only delay but even cancel for this 2, 3 months, as long as the current circumstances in the Republic of Croatia take place. So the SDP Club will accept and support these amendments to the concession law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-26-0.u195292	Thank you. The club of representatives of the Independent Youth List also applied for participation in the debate on their behalf will speak MP Tomislav Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-26-0.u195293	Thank you very much. Of course, the concessions when we mention and the concept itself associates with one negativity that was created over time, so I might take advantage of the current moment of course that this implementation that has been requested to be more high-quality in Croatian legislation from European legislation shows only that even the government that proposed in 2017 was not willing to accept all the provisions defined by European legislation and only under the pressure now debated,... generally these are positive shifts that we will take. However, we return to the very experience that we have in the Republic of Croatia with the concessions and what we expect in future time. The three most famous concessions we have are those for the "Franjo Tuđman" International Airport, for the Zagreb-Macelj highway and for the Istrian Ipislon. What do they have in common? It is common that in the case of a fall in traffic, the difference in the wages of the Republic of Croatia and that is in all three concessions. The airport currently in this situation that it is will have a certain decline in traffic and we will have to pay for it. Two of the reasons are listed, one was in the original contract that is a higher power, and the other which was subsequently added was a reduction in the number of flights of Croatia Airlines. Two conditions are met. And what was added in 2013 signed during the government of Zoran Milanovic that the Republic of Croatia would guarantee a 196m-euro loan return to the banks, so Croatia also stood behind their loan. We can only assume what will be the request of the concessionaires, and we can also ask the question, here is the Ministry of Finance that is ultimately paying, but the Ministry of Transport is also very responsible, whether they have come into contact and talked to the concessionary, to hear the attitude and concessionaires of the French-Turkish company, can we say, will they come out to meet this crisis or will they explicitly adhere to the responsible provisions? Will the burden of the crisis coming to pay for all citizens eventually through the state budget or will some new model be found? Only for Binu-Istra has so far been paid about a billion and a half kuna during this time, the drop in traffic is already visible and it is possible that we will have to pay them as well. It's in the background of the ownership structure and there's the same French company, whether it's going to meet and we need to ask the government and the Ministry of Transport for answers. The Zagreb-Macelj highway, according to all contractual obligations, was paid somewhere on the basis of an audit of about 650 million kuna for various support provided by the original contract, will also pay the difference for the decline in traffic. And in all of this, if we look at what is even more tragic, the revision has found, the lost concession contracts that were made during the Zagreb-Macelj highway procedure are also for the Istrian Ipsilon, then it is clear how important this law is, how precise, how positive it will be. But on the other hand, we can see that many changes to the original concession contract have been made to various manipulations that are ultimately paid by Croatian citizens. And the original procedure that has been carried out with certain debates in the end can be said in secret to change, so the commitments that were not originally envisaged are taken over, and we pay all of this together. And then if we except for these three large ones, we come to a whole series of smaller concessions, beach concessions, nautical tourism ports, concessions for the exploitation of mine treasure, mining wealth of the Republic of Croatia and various others and all the time wherever the use of public goods is and also public funds within concessions we meet exclusively with abuses and debates. And we can't move, but we get into new and new situations all the time, and even the tragic ones when you get concessionaries on the beaches that then the citizens don't have any more access or that they really have to compete to access a beach at all. And we do have tragedies wherever we touch the question of concessions, and I think that in the name of the club I will say that the question of concessions is not only a matter of the law that regulates it in terms of the implementation of the procedure but also later in terms of supervision, implementation, realization, jurisdiction, sanctioning and everything that is not often regulated by the Law on concessions but by other laws and until we have a total of treatment we will, in any change to the Law on concessions, speak in, in fact not only that we will speak, but also people will observe it only in the context of those abuses that very often come out towards, through the media and define a concession as one negative instrument that instead of being an instrument that will improve the development of infrastructure, economy, the quality of life, ultimately being something that actually spilling public resources into private pockets. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-26-0.u195294	The Club of Representatives of HSU, SNAGE, Independent Representatives and New Politics was also registered to participate in this debate, the representative of Silvano Hrelja will speak on their behalf. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-26-0.u195295	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, dear Secretary of State, come on, look, we're a strange people, a strange country that died in the war, and has never declared war. Now we have an emergency situation, and we don't want to declare a state of emergency. What are we afraid of? Who are we addicted to and who are we not to blame? To declare a state of emergency then all the special laws so-called. Tex specialis could solve these problems we've been talking about all day. We could have a law in which they are suspended, so all claims are suspended against the citizens because the first priority is to survive in this situation and to preserve health and the ability to get out of this crisis quickly. No one can be untouchable, and even in this law writes, and in this law write and create new conditions for banks to be untouchable, for banks to be untouchable. They'd be the first to see where this situation goes, the first, self-initiatively without the government, to tell the citizens that our computer will extend to you you don't have to pay anything, month, two, three however long this takes, our computers will extend your automatic payment deadline of your loans. They could do that if they were part of this society, not all the time they're picking cream. I'm very honest with them, I respect all my relationships with the banks, I'm regularly paying all my loans, and most citizens do it, this is an extraordinary time, and the situation is extraordinary, and it needs to be declared, it has to be said and it needs to be done in order to save people because people can solve everything, primarily people and then the economies of this country so we can get away quickly. By the way, I'm repeating again as we did yesterday, we're the last country to get out of recession. Why? Because we're weighty, because we don't have the courage to make brave moves that ensure quick exits from these situations. Some countries even take different risks, look and read to yourself on the Internet how Sweden works in this situation. So take a look at it and see that there are different approaches with more risks, with more organization and more respect for the profession. As for this law, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on concessions, he just says that when it's not made from the first, who in that shipbuilding welder, when you don't do the first job right, then the repairs go, then the dig, then the third, the third, the third, the fourth, and the ones on the side that you didn't do well, so you didn't align your legislation with the directives, and let's do it again, again, you're doing a job that doesn't lead to anything. So the goal is, the goal of all of us is to do a job, to make provisions of the law that will allow individual systems to function. Why is our concession system and the concession itself kind of perceived in public as a gray zone, because there's really a lot of stuff in there. There's nothing in it and there's no control, there's no systematic control, there's no surveillance, and of course there's smudge, which we're like Croats special, especially talented, right? Therefore, I do not stand out from this society, we are it, we are it and it should be openly acknowledged. So, of course there are in this bill and things that are good, but we still don't go to the end, we're not going to the end again, we're not filming the situation, and the only happiness in this story is that this law is provoking reading that we can discuss and discuss and fix this law, if we don't propose we through amendments in, possibly in the second reading. For the purposes of this Article, Article 62(1) and (2) shall apply. It says it's somewhere else. Yes, but not everything covered by the Croatian Parliament is in power and is not of national security. The Croatian Parliament under the Constitution has jurisdiction much, much wider, much wider than only national security, and the provision that remains is the abolition of the concession only because of the issue of national security. Why are we doing this? Why don't we build the first one? Well, you'll explain to the Secretary of State, I'm right, I have the right to represent and to make a mistake, whether or not you do. So, please, we're here, we're talking about it, and we're conflicting thoughts. Second, in Art. We have, therefore, a proposal to transfer the concession contract may be allowed, with the written consent of the concessionor in favour of the financial institution which grants loans or loans to the concessionor for the purpose of implementing the concession agreement, to settle a supply of secured demand which is not fulfilled on the maturity when such an amendment is provided for in the tendering documentation and concession agreements in accordance with point. The 62nd century of the 5th century. One of this law. So, in the future, it will be in any such contract provided for because the banks will ask for it. And therefore, according to this provision, according to this provision, banks can gain a terrible power when they fail to meet the concession. So, they become masters, become masters of everything. It was before that the transfer of concessions to a third party, of course with an agreement, one that could fulfil the concession contract, so the legal person who received the concession cannot fulfil his obligations, the contract can be transferred to another, the other concessionaire who is willing to fulfil it, the obligations, the obligations of the contract, which is much more natural and much more normal. Here we give huge, huge, terrible power to banks who have all the power anyway because we are all slaves to the financial, financial industry that has shown complete, complete insensibility to this situation and self-initiatively does not make any moves as if they do not live on these, of these citizens. Therefore, dear Proposer, we will follow this, we welcome all that this law has been incorporated into this law regarding the demands and assessments of the European Commission, and I repeat that we would always be smarter to predict these situations that someone will warn us to remove them in advance in the first attempt, and not that we are the little bastards who think we will not be discovered by one European Commission, so we will re-embark something and mummble it. I recommend that we make quality laws first and watch what the European Directives say because this is our broader legal framework and we could also bear financial consequences because we avoid fully applying, apply the provisions of all directives, or that of our wider legal, legal framework. I ask that in this case and in all such cases we be fully responsible and that we do not in any way damage the reputation of the Republic of Croatia to receive such warnings of non-compliance with the European directives, and then correct the second, third and fourth times our laws. Thank you very much, we will, unless you change anything, we will look at this and follow this law and try to fix with amendments the part that we think needs to be fixed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-26-0.u195296	Representative Panenic, here you are, looking for a break, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-26-0.u195297	On behalf of the Club of the Independent Youth List, I am looking for a break on the matter of concessions, a lease on agricultural land where we believe that the delay measure that the Government has provided is absolutely insufficient and as such will not help the agricultural sector to recover rapidly and this way I appeal to the Secretary of State to take into account that in the following measures that it will propose, the measure of release that has been envisaged so far and in other situations when we have had a crisis then the previous governments have freed from giving the tenant or concessionaire. It would also refer to the fact that the agricultural land owned by the Republic of Croatia will now be in a special situation around this crisis. The announced tenders that were to be opened, especially in the days when there was a great readiness, will all be suspended for a longer period until this crisis is over, but a new problem remains, and this is the end of the contract at the time that is signed, the law has disabled and extended temporary contracts and numerous tenants will find themselves in a difficult situation where a programme of availability has been implemented, nor has the possibility to extend it, and this way I will ask the Government's representative to urinate questions about making necessary amendments to the Law on Agricultural Land in order for this situation to relax and thus send a positive signal to farmers to have real support for the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-26-0.u195298	Thank you. I'm setting a five-minute break. THE PURPOSE We'll continue to work after the meeting. The club of the representatives of the Independent Lists also applied for participation in this debate. In their name will be the representative of Nikola Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-26-0.u195300	Dear colleagues and colleagues, dear secretary of state. So, I thought I'd take part in this debate, but I think there are a lot of important things that are good to say to the Croatian public and to Croatian citizens who are watching us now, but of course also to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. They were talking here about how no rent can be paid now, we have one paradoxical situation that should go into forgiveness, we also said, and all the time we repeat, everything that goes towards our farmers, towards our entrepreneurs, according to our craftsmen where they are promised some kind of delay, no delay, dear secretary of state, the only write-off at this point is some kind of normal measure. What is also important to note, three years ago here, of course not in this building but in the Croatian Parliament, we passed the Law on Agricultural Land, how many hectares of state land are divided into Croatian farmers? Not one, not one. So we have to make this land available to Croatian farmers, we have to be self-sufficient about agricultural production, it is particularly important in these conditions under such a threat where simply a country that does not use all its resources, which does not process its agricultural surfaces, which does not produce its food simply cannot exist. We have another problem here I pointed it out during a break around these older people who can't get to the banks, I can't raise money, and we have what with farmers who have their own agricultural areas in other municipalities. Here in Neretva, someone who lives in Metkovic has agricultural areas, for example. in the Municipality of Pozerje, also in Slavonia we probably have similar situations that in other municipalities this agricultural land. People can't process their agricultural surfaces because of this collected movement right now. And you know what they tell me, died of my crown or starved to death, it's the same thing Croatian farmers say. We are also dead, as the one in Serbia said, that mortality is 100% if you are dead as well in this situation. So, the same thing we die of hunger if we don't process our agricultural surfaces or God forbid the crown is the same thing. So these aspects should be considered, and consider this. You can address it to the prime minister and to those who make decisions, it means two important problems. And here's why it's important for the Croatian Parliament to meet. Two important problems are MPs, not just me, so more MPs have talked about it here, two important problems that need to be solved, so our older people who can't get to their money and our farmers who can't get to their agricultural land. It may be a good proposal that colleagues from the opposition made if we had those areas of the former communities or something like that that would make it easier somehow because here in the area of Neretva it would certainly be a good proposal, and I believe elsewhere because there are a lot more institutions in one larger area than mail, banks, but surely even citizens with agricultural land have it in some radius than I don't know 40 kilometers. But now we've limited everything to the areas of these communities that there's a lot of them, and that's where the big problems are created. And in the end, just one reference to what my colleague Hrelja said, we're never going to introduce a state of emergency. Why? First, we had a press conference this morning where it was said that the situation was under control, even if it was much better than in a well-organized Germany, that the situation was much better. If people stick to measures and stick to them, we can't because of an incident like this older couple that the media wrote about, we can't say because of one incident that all our people don't stick to. After all, we have two significant messages from headquarters, one member of the headquarters says that simply the Croats misrepresent the measures, another member of the headquarters says the situation is excellent for people to follow the instructions. And what I can see here in Zagreb, people mostly adhere to rules and measures. There is no reason to introduce a state of emergency, the Croatian Parliament should meet precisely because of these proposals that have been presented here since this morning which are constructive. We haven't criticized either headquarters or government, but we've brought up the real problems that people have, people are coming to us, and the government can intervene and make these things right, of course, for the benefit of our citizens. Here's what I'm saying, and I'm closing this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-26-0.u195301	The GLAS representative club also applied for participation in the debate on their behalf will be spoke by Anka representative Mrak Taritas.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-26-0.u195302	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Here we are in front of us in the first reading and amending and supplementing the Law on concessions, which is already like all predecessors, and the promoter said it was created because of compliance with the directive or the requirements that were to bring this law into line. This is one law that is roofing against it will harmonize all other things and situations. We at the GLAS Club will support this law in our first reading because we appreciate that these changes that were indeed or which are proposed are welcome. In fact, when you're doing the law you can't, I have to somehow stand in defense of the proposings even though it's unusual I'm the side of the opposition, but when you're doing the law, you can't predict all the situations. Some law makes you work on your tradition, based on some former experiences, based on what it was, so I'm not surprised that when a more detailed look comes to some requirements that need to be brought into line and these demands need to be responded, mistakes don't be repeated. So that's what you should point to and what you should say. There are a few things in this law that need to be highlighted. The first is a ban on giving concessions in the field of defence and security. We're in a very interesting time. The time of the Coroner virus and then the City of Zagreb really hit an earthquake from which the city will recover for the next 3-4 years certainly compared to the damage it has done. Of course there were all kinds of jokes, that we're being followed by an ascension, that we're still missing the riding of locusts, and I don't know what we're not, and we're a people who like to joke, so there's this joke about Grandpa telling his granddaughter, so there was a coronary virus, so there was an earthquake and a grandson says you're telling me there was snow, so did it snow? But just in these moments we need reason, at these moments we need responsibility, and at these moments we need to make sure that we all do our jobs. We're not even in the assembly, that everything is normally difficult to be much more than we are now in this space because some laws that cause more attention, and some laws are that cause less attention. We in the Voice are the points and we think as long as they are, as long as they are doing other services like the police that are working and everything else and we need to sit and we need to be, this is our job. We were elected by the citizens to represent them in the assembly of the Republic of Croatia, we were elected by the citizens to protect democracy, to protect human rights, to protect the Constitution and everything else, and as long as the conditions for us to come, so that we can work, we should work. And this deal we reached at the extended presidency level to work on Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, that we can even agree to do one point but not two, but depending on how it comes, but some decisions will need to be made. I will make this link with one provision of this Law on concessions, that is the provision of Article 62 which has changed and said, it has changed, it has been deleted "if this requires the interest of the Republic of Croatia", but it remains and says "when the Croatian Parliament finds that national security and defence of the state, the environment or human health are at risk", it remains. And there is the obligation of the Croatian Parliament and there we need to know that we have, we have a series of laws in which the clear obligations that this assembly and this assembly are to repeat we in GLAS are the points as long as it can come, while it can work, until it's sodom and gomorrah, and I don't want to be a bad prophet and I think this thing will go away. Which one of us here thought, I have us something and older age, and something younger that we'll have what we have, that we'll have it at the level of the world? No one thought, but we're all adapting, so we're going to adapt, and we need to adapt. What's clear is what we need to spread from here, which is reason, responsibility and not spread at any time panic. The way the headquarters is working on our health care is absolutely something to praise and our responsibility to all of these, all of us sitting there and doing the same thing to treat it. That part, now I'm going to go back to the concession law, although, no more, there won't be another law that will be there, which we won't be able to connect to our current situation. This law has one thing that is absolutely good, and that is to do with the sub-concession, that at the time you negotiate a concession to define immediately and areas that can be contracted by concessions. This means that you will immediately know what can go into the subconcession, that you will leave that market, that you will be faster, that you will be more transparent, that you will be clearer in your conduct. I'll tell you an example we can all understand, one marina, a marina, so the marina place where it has its land part, has its sea part, has its own facilities and someone who's got a concession for the marina is actually interested in this sea and land part. Marina has a store, she has a catering facility, she's got how many anchors there are and some space that actually offers either smaller or bigger repairs and I don't see any problem or what these things should go under concession. Until now, until more laws of 2017, it has always been a challenge and caused a debate whether, if not, it will now be clearly defined and it is good that this is the case. And finally, I really want to highlight one more thing and another situation. Article 8 clearly states what is the subject of the concession and now you have here, or here we now have, I will only refer to two things, says one thing doing the activities of the line and coastal sea and river transport and providing public transport services. We're in a situation where someone who won a concession can't work. Not that he can't work, he can't work. Especially when it comes to these concessions for public transport services, so it can't do it anymore, it can't go between cities. Therefore, what should be a clear view and what should be absolutely clear to everyone, during the time it does not work, not because he does not want it or because there are certain conditions, but because he cannot work, the state told him you should not work, that is the period for which he should be released from paying the concession. So, the message that's supposed to be when you don't work, you don't pay the concession, when you go to work, we'll see from now on. We at this point through everything, through all the messages we send, through all the discussions we're going, we're thinking about today. So, we're thinking about today, we're thinking about tomorrow, we're all watching and we're tracking a headquarters that twice a day announces how many people are infected and we're all focused on this. What's expected at this point is that we all concentrate together on the day after. I'm sure that the day after that will come, I'm sure a bunch of businessmen will be ready to do some other jobs right away, maybe in some other way, we'll have to be ready for the day after. We mustn't kill those who are ready for it because there won't be any. There won't be any who will work. So I expect some other set of measures, I expect to make a good analysis, expect it to be a clear message, they, this is excellent, so this law is excellent, you have 23 things that are listed for which we give concessions. I'm not going in, I didn't mention tourism on purpose, I deliberately mentioned traffic. Those people who have a concession can't work, when you can't work, you're free to pay, when you start working, then you'll need to see how help these people really work as soon as they start working. Just in conclusion, we at the GLAS Club will support this law in our first reading. We appreciate that this law is relatively ready for another reading and we simply think that and that is one example of making a good change and supplement can always be better, we can always complain, but it is not time for big complaints. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-26-0.u195303	The HDS, HSLS and HDSB's representative club also applied for participation in the debate, President Branko Hrg will speak on their behalf.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-26-0.u195304	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So I'll start by saying that the HDS, HSLS and HDSSB Club will support the bill in the first reading. It is normal for me to say to comply with EU decisions and laws, but it is normal for us to also have to keep what is important for Croatia and where Croatia is different in some parts and it should not always be exactly as it is known that everything Europe commands us to do right away. That's exactly how we look at this bill. A lot of speeches today, and as she said earlier, it's hard today to have any discussion and talk about it without touching the current situation in the country and in the world at the very least. Well, I'm not going to argue that way, but I'm just going to tie myself to the previous speech and say that I believe that our country, our resolutions that cover so many different concessions at the time of this crisis and after the end of that crisis, will have common sense and certainly enough wisdom to look at this situation that everyone points to, and related to the concession and concession fees that people have to pay. In a specific example, I was also moved by my colleague, Mrak Taritash, when she spoke about the concession of the carrier. We have a problem with the concession of public bus liner transport not because of the payment of concessions but because of the lack of profitability. So this crisis with the coronary virus could not have been more significant influencing than it has now been a complete interruption and a complete collapse, and we need to think about different types of concession, not only that part of it that we want to charge the concession, but that if we give a concession to ensure that what is important is vital for the lives of citizens and works. As an example, I am taking the opportunity to point out this problem that came to us a few years ago in the extreme case, where public transport, where carriers have an obligation to have open lines actually dies because there are no passengers, and they themselves cannot function self-sustainable because that transport is unrestrained. What is good in this law is said to me about a little increased control, it is said about the application of the law and the public procurement, and I especially fell into my ear when the State Secretary gave an opening explanation that part of the decision would apply that concessionists who take something in the concession must respect collective border contracts in a branch of business in which they act and pay salaries according to these contracts will normally not have the right to concession. This is also the problem with the Public Procurement Act in its application, and that is usually the problem of Croatian laws, because when laws are passed in the Croatian Parliament, they go further into the process, they go to the ministries, they go into operation, and they often go beyond what the perception was and what the representatives were like when we discussed it without expecting anything out of it. I think that the general legislation is too complicated for us, that we're too crazy, that we're said to have too many administrations and that for these reasons we simply have a lot of times and ineffectiveness in the implementation of various laws. I hope with this law it won't be the case though later on they'll be on that branch... to implement, of course, concession procedures in their own way, but in any case, this law makes it more transparent, which is particularly important, which is particularly important on micro-levels. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I'm talking about local levels because we have a problem that has nothing to do with concessions, we have a problem that I was talking about when we discussed the State Audit Report. So we have no idea what's happening to us at local level because a state audit at the time of the mandate of a local self-government leader cannot come into all these local self-governments, especially municipalities where it can actually come into some maybe 25 to 30% of local self-government, and there you see these things. And that's why it's good to uphold the law, make it more transparent, but to allow it to be controlled and ultimately more aggressive and sanctioned. So, we support the Implementing Act... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-26-0.u195305	The HDZ advocates' club also applied for participation in the debate, according to representative Juricev-Martinchev on their behalf.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-26-0.u195306	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. In fact, the draft law amending and supplementing the law on concessions will support the HDZ Club. As we could hear this law is the existing law that we passed on 30 June 2017. It shall comply with the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council and shall, in fact, be more detailed from the definitions to certain provisions relating to and the conflict of interest of persons involved in the concession procedure, during the concession procedure, specify the possibilities for amending the contract under the agreement of a new assessment of the value of the concession, then the provisions on the transfer of concession and the possibility of establishing the right of competition, of course, with the consent of the concession provider. This is the roof law to be said and it regulates concessions in different and areas and activities. These activities are extremely numerous, and we have in particular 23 areas specifically defined by new sectoral laws. This is about extremely valuable resources of the Republic of Croatia from the exploitation of mineral raw materials through use of water, municipal activities, concessions on marine goods, tourism, health, etc. As I have said, this Directive, along with the very definition of an economic operator with a natural or legal person or a community of those persons, provides for and adds both to the branch and to the public body and to the community of the body, but also includes any temporary association. Furthermore, the Directive provides for a concession between public entities which is not provided for in the concession system in the Republic of Croatia, but we are instructed by the directive to explicitly state that concession providers cannot grant a concession to each other. Likewise, when it comes to defence and security concessions, our Croatian legal system does not know such grants, nor does it intend to grant such concessions, however, it was also necessary to intervene and impose into the law a decree that this law prohibits the granting of such concessions. When it comes to amending the contract, Hrelja criticised the provision where the possibility of HS being able to request an amendment to the concession agreement for not defining what the interest of the Republic of Croatia would be. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 62nd, it says that a change of contract is possible and necessary and seems to be in cases where national security and defence of the state, the environment or human health are at stake, which we think is quite enough. More clearly, the possibility of debt being made available, counterpart Mrak Taritas commended this precisely for being more liberal and was left to market conditions unlike the existing law, where it was declared that the terms and conditions could be negotiated. Thus far, it is said that it is only for the performance of works or for the provision of services in a smaller scale or for the performance of secondary activities. The eligibility study of concessions as well as the technical analysis of studies shall include from now on compliance with spatial plans. We know that any performance of works and construction is not possible without compliance with the urban plan or spatial plan or even higher order, so now it is also possible to take concessions contrary to spatial plans and it is necessary to put it in the concession justification studio, as well as in the technical analysis to take into account. With regard to the time of initiation of the procedure, the concessionr now needs at least 12 months before the deadline to initiate the procedure, unlike the existing law, where it provides for it within 9 months and if the procedure has not been successfully completed, then it may extend the existing contract to a period of 6 months again under certain conditions. It is possible to transfer the concession agreement to a third party with the written consent of the concession provider as well as the right to be heard, however, it should be pointed out that the demand of financial institutions may refer exclusively to the financial instrument provided for in the purpose of implementing the concession contract, and not on any other basis, which means that if certain credits are requested for the construction of the facility or investment in the maritime well-being, then that right may apply to that concession only, and may not be sought for the purchase of a business space at any other location or vehicle and something related to the concession may be pledged. The possibility of conclusion of a contract and a contract for a concession shall also be provided by the concession provider with a study of the eligibility of the concession in the documentation, etc. What is very important is also to point out that the concession provider can now exclude the economic operator from the concession procedure, not only as if a bankruptcy procedure has been opened above it, or if the economic operator is legally sentenced to a criminal offence or offence in connection with the conduct of a professional activity or has a more serious professional failure than these amendments to the law provide if the economic operator... is serious and incorrectly showing the facts in the transmission of the data or if it influences this procedure in an incorrect manner. Since a lot of colleagues here have also talked about the way and payment and the release of payments in these particular concession situations, I would stress once again, that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has taken 63 measures because of an epidemic of the coronary virus to cover all economic resources with the aim of preserving jobs and paying salaries and that it is the first set of measures. Now we are talking about a delay in payment, and surely we agree, if this situation persists, what we see will be necessary and released, rather than just delay certain payments. When it comes to agricultural land concessions, I would remind my colleagues that only the Ministry of Agriculture in the first package of measures provided for a sum of HRK 350 million, which will be aided to our farmers. Finally, the HDZ Club will support this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on concessions because they promote transparency, clarity of conduct and protection of competition in the concession process, and thus the Croatian legal framework of business is improved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-26-0.u195307	We now move to individual debates, for individual debates on this subject is reported by MP Ivan Pernar, who is not present, thus losing his right to participate in the debate. The next representative to apply is Representative Branko Bačić for an individual debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-26-0.u195308	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I have applied for a debate on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on concessions in order to express my few thoughts on the need to bring our law into line with the EU directive in a part where the law that was passed three years ago is not in conformity, and it is also necessary for the coherence of the law itself, and it is also necessary for further clarification of the very important contractual obligations that are prescribed by law, and they later implement the contract itself between the concession givers and concessionaires. In the first instance, it is very important to prescribe the definition of an economic operator participating in this process because there have been certain irregularities in the case of a branch, in the case of legal person status and in the case of an authorised person to sign the contracts themselves, which has slowed down the implementation of the concession law itself, and in particular the implementation of the concession process itself has caused many doubts and additional issues that are difficult to implement. What is important to point out, and what is now defined by this law is the possibility of transferring the concession. As Mrs Branka Juričev Martinchev said earlier, we are talking about a few, i.e. 23 sectors and activities for which concessions are issued under this roof concession law. There are a number of laws of lex specialis that define the treatment and concession procedure for one of these sectors, so for example, the Law on Maritime Good has prescribed the way concessions are given on the maritime good, but also on this law which has been in force for 27 years, which has experienced certain changes during these ten years above all and in the part relating to the concession... because of its need to comply with this roof law that we have adopted, I say three years ago prescribed the possibility of transferring concessions to the maritime good, clearly with the consent of the concession provider, whether it is the only area or regional self-government i.e. County or whether it was the Government of the Republic of Croatia that was bringing and giving concessions for the use of maritime goods. Therefore, the fact that we have now further explained with this law has already been implemented in one of our laws which defines the treatment of one segment, one concession sector in Croatia. Moreover, as it is a very good option to exercise a right to a concession, it is very important because it often allows the concession contract to record the right to a concession which then allows the economic operator who is the concessionary to enter into a new investment during the duration of the concession, which further contributes to the economic strength of the entity itself, and clearly helps to improve the quality of economic activity through his business. And I think it's in the interest of the concessionor himself, in any case. What seems to me to have really missed and that no one should have warned us about it, and I think that we are also in the process of adopting a fundamental law, which is an explicit provision prescribed by this law, which is that in addition to the economic basis of a study of justification, the basic act is the spatial plan of a single unit of local or regional self-government. In fact, often the concession itself involves construction, no construction without a location permit, no location permit without a spatial plan. Therefore, this link between the spatial plan and the decision on concessions and concession agreements implies that the spatial plan is an inevitable part of this law and it is indeed strange that we have not already defined that possibility and predicted that And now I'm going from [[Intruder Petrov: Thank you, time is up.]] I'll figure it out. [[Intruder Petrov: From replica.]] So the spatial plan is a prerequisite for any concession in Croatia and it is a good thing that we regulated it by this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-26-0.u195309	Thank you. Representative Gordan Maras has requested a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-26-0.u195310	Thank you very much. In your debate, you mentioned that this area of concession refers to more than 30 activities many of which, due to the new situation, are not able to carry out their activities in the Republic of Croatia, obtain income and in some way pay employees, pay their taxes and contributions. And my question goes towards you and towards the ruling majority, do you also think about when we're going to do so, and may you perhaps support the SDP Club's proposal that at this point, for these all affected by the Coronal Virus crisis, entrepreneurs, as well as in concessions or others to suspend payment simply contributes to allow people not to create debts and in some way have a perspective and to be aware that when the crisis ends, without debt, they can move on and that the state can help them in this way? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-26-0.u195311	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-26-0.u195312	Thank you. You do not need to warn your fellow Maras from the opposition the ruling majority that it is good for entrepreneurs in Croatia to be free from public giving when they are directly affected by this crisis around the crown of the virus. Not only do you not need to, but the government has done so with a number of measures that have allowed entrepreneurs who have problems in their business due to the coronary virus to be facilitated by a number of measures, primarily to protect the entrepreneur and to protect the workplace. As I said last Friday, the government adopted these measures, and today the Prime Minister announced a new set of measures next week to contribute to entrepreneurs and those who clearly have to pay public fees, in particular concession providers, to facilitate their business at a time when they do not make almost any revenue from the concession they received from the concessionor, if you want to, for example, state institutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-26-0.u195313	The next replica was requested by MP Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-26-0.u195314	A fellow Bačić here is about 23 concessions in all kinds, I would like to mention here a very important topic, which is our agricultural land. 800,000 hectares, slightly less unprocessed, of which the state's 400,000 hectares is undivided. Not given in concession to our farmers, and the law was passed two years ago. Only 11,000 hectares are divided because they need numerous consents from the county, the ministry. Why don't we take out the county? Here's what I've proposed, and I've asked the prime minister to share this land in this crisis with our farmers, and those who are processing to release concessions because at this very moment, we simply have unprocessed land of the state, nothing is done but you are braked by this law essentially on the concession of agricultural land is the brakes of the county. I gave the law to remove those dual opinions and to finally process Croatian land to be self-sufficient. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-26-0.u195315	Time's up.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-26-0.u195316	I'd like to thank my colleague Bulj. Therefore, this ruling majority and this government have amended the Law on Agricultural Land and the part relating to the lease of agricultural land and left it to units of local self-government provided that units of local self-government make a state-owned programme available. What many units haven't done is not only wrong, often as you yourself have said, the assumption is that many advances, ancestors, documents that the local self-government unit could get consent from the restoring ministry so that it could go into the process of renting agricultural land. But what you and I both know very well is that sometimes the road to hell is filled with the best intentions and then, as we would like to skip something, we can speed up something even bigger. I agree with you that it is necessary to simplify the procedure, even if you will at the moment when we are in this crisis to determine the measures that will simplify the procedure for renting agricultural land and here I agree with you. But there must always be order, there must always be a principle of justice when agricultural land is assigned As soon as you want to put it... [[Intruder Petrov: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-26-0.u195317	Representative Bačić is out of time. We will suspend this debate temporarily as they follow the statements on behalf of the clubs. Now we move on to the point. MP Domagoj Hajdukovic reported for individual participation in the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-26-0.u195319	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So I have to refer to some things purely for the public. The state of emergency isn't in the sense that the Parliament can't sit, the state of emergency is a lot of other things. I don't think I have to pick that up. We're all here in contact with both our loved ones and the people who work in the health system, who work in public services, who work in all other important services and jobs that are important to this situation because I think the absolutely situation is extraordinary and I don't see any reason for the Parliament to stop sitting. However, as I have said and pleaded on this, the Parliament should be kept in constant session while this crisis is taking place. At least in my opinion, and I would also like the government to report to the categorical, or periodical parliament, if not the prey, then at least competent committees on how to deal with the crisis. But let's get back to the concession law. I'd like to base the same thing on what some of them used to say to me, and that's farm land. First, I would like to commend that the saying again states that forests and forest land cannot go to concessions, it is one of the strategic resources. However, as far as agricultural land is concerned, I'm afraid we're not doing a good job here. I'll remind you, this majority, this government introduced, or I'd say it brought us back to the new Agricultural Land Act when it returned to the authorities of local self-government to rent agricultural land. In practice, this means that this is going very slowly, that land is not being leased, that often land is being used outside the lease, or illegally, literally by the principle that it is the first one to cheat on the ridge that this land is benefiting and benefiting, and that the land of the state, or the Republic of Croatia, has no use at all. Who's in the best interest of chaos like this, I really don't know that. To whom it is in the interest that this sheriff's way is actually made available by the same strategic resource, which is agricultural land, we don't know the same thing. We asked a lot of questions when it comes to, when we were talking about the Agrokor affair, about the availability of land that was in the concession, that is to say, leased by some of the components of the Agrokor concert. We didn't get any clear answers, it was transferred to some new companies. We also testified that certain leaders of local self-government units who were under pressure to sign so that concessions went into, to other companies, to resist. Whether it was implemented in accordance with the law or not, I can't claim here right now, but what's the fact is that agricultural land still takes chaos. And that's especially important, and now that we're going to be part of it, it's obvious, if this crisis lasts, and for now, it's going to take at least a few months, when we're going to have to rely more and more on our own agricultural and food products. Unfortunately, by systematic poor agriculture management, especially in the last five years, we have reduced our production to very low branches. My colleagues before me talked about producers who, who cannot place their products, who must destroy them because of the rigorous measures they view in the markets. Different OPGs are certainly managed by delivery, etc., but I think that land management should be stopped in order to be in, as much as possible in use or so that they can produce as much food as possible, but also to think about supply chains, i.e. that this food produced on Croatian agricultural land can then be placed on the market. Clearly, closing markets is a big problem. It is clear that this decision has not been made easily, that there have been a lot of violations of the rules that civil protection headquarters have prescribed and that this is why such a decision has been made, but we need to find as soon as possible to bridge this problem, logistics, so that there are no food shortages in the end, that is, so that the supply does not suffer. And finally, they're saying that there is no need to warn the opposition about how their work is done, so gentlemen, I think that 60 thousand entrepreneurs who are gathered on an initiative that requires the shift of the economy minister are clearly telling you how competent your competent public is, in this case, entrepreneurship is assessing and assessing your actions. We're not an opposition that only is critical [[Intruder: Thank you.]] We suggest, no one defends you. [[Intruder: Time's up.]] that some solutions [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Take over. [[Intruder: Time's up.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-26-0.u195320	Thank you. Four are requested replicas. A representative of Nikola Grmoy has requested the first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-26-0.u195321	Dear counterpart Hajdukovic, I came to you to ask if we have some sort of agreement on a large coalition since what counterpart Bacic announced last night on the show Open, which is the introduction of the state of emergency, you are calling in your statement this morning. I don't know why, what's the reason for the state of emergency if we have claims that things in Croatia work much better than they do, for example. in one super-organized Germany. Why are you going in this direction, why do you want to limit the decisions that will be made by the Croatian Parliament and leave it to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and I ask you to answer in public why you asked for this and whose initiative? Is this on SDP chief Davor Bernardic's initiative, who may have feared the situation that should be involved in the adoption and making decisions? [[Intruder: Thank you, time's up.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-26-0.u195322	Thank you. Well first of all, I would recommend that you not only read the headlines, it might go to a colleague named Bačić. The state of emergency is why, I explained it to half my individual debate and there is no big coalition, I don't know how many times I have to repeat it and what media everything. But what I was saying when I was talking about that state of emergency I was talking about is that the assembly should permanently be held. Therefore, it is not necessary to disband the Croatian Parliament and that the Croatian Parliament should periodically report on what has been done and whether the conditions should be extended or not. So, I'm yours, the answer to your question is no big coalition, in this problem we're all together. We always suggest, so we're not just here to be critics, but we're here to offer solutions. The solutions are on the table and we don't care if the ruling takes over, if they take over their laws and install the team better because Croatian citizens will benefit from it is a single, sole goal.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-26-0.u195323	Representative Bulj has requested a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-26-0.u195324	A colleague of Hajdukovic's, you made your point, that is, the SDP's position on the state of emergency. the activation of Article 17. The constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which means that the parliament would have given power to the Government and the President of the Republic, which is really what counterpart Bacic said last night, is now being built a little bit, you'll probably be talking now, now he'll be defending not to tribune the state of emergency and in the end he'll obviously agree. Can you tell exactly if this is the position of the SDP if you are afraid of taking over the government, so you want to make it easier for yourself and your party chief to overcome this crisis that is ahead of us because there are no elements at this point in time. Well, that's what the civil protection headquarters itself says, the national headquarters. What are the elements that we hand over to the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the President of the Republic of Croatia, do you really have some serious reason, but present it well and tell the public here, or is this a big coalition deal? SDP – HDZ. [[Agreement: Thank you, time's up.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-26-0.u195325	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-26-0.u195326	So I must repeat that there is no agreement here, that the only thing on our mind is the well-being of Croatian citizens. I made statements on my own behalf, I don't have.../incomprehensible/... speak on behalf of the party at least not in this case. And as far as responsibility is concerned we are responsible and how we demonstrate just because we are not the ones who are just criticizing but the ones who are proposing. So the measures we've proposed, we're sending a new package of laws into the process, we're actively taking part in public reporting on what measures should be taken, we're trying to be proactive, and I think that's a feature of responsible opposition. I haven't seen many other proposals at least not the specific ones in the form of the laws on the table, which is why I think we're acting extremely responsibly. We're not afraid of taking over power at any time. At this point, we must propose solutions that will be for the greater benefit of our citizens because what follows us after the epidemic when we overcome it, and I'm sure we will, too, will be difficult.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-26-0.u195327	The replica was reported by MP Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-26-0.u195328	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Hajdukovic, I will repeat what I just said. Therefore, Article 17. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia has two-thirds of the majority can limit individual freedoms and rights of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. We at the Club of Representatives of the HDZ have thought and thought about it, but we hold that at this time the Croatian Assembly is based on Articles 16, 32 and 50. The constitution can pass laws that will respond to this major pandemic crisis, by spreading the pandemic of the coronary virus. So far, we hold that there is no need for this, there is, in case the assembly is disabled in its work, then there are circumstances in which certain powers would be transferred to the Government or to the President of the Republic of Croatia. Until then, by virtue of the Law on the Protection of the public against the spread of the disease and contagion, based on the Civil Protection System Act... [[Intruder: Thank you.]] [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-26-0.u195329	Representative Bačić, but I really mean every time 10 to 15 seconds more. You've changed the Rules of Procedure, you've limited your lines, you've shortened it by minutes, and since you've done it, please stick to the time you've voted on. Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-26-0.u195330	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I also said in a press statement that at this point I do not see any obstacles to the Assembly continuing to be in session. But what I would like to ask you is, if we are talking about limiting certain freedoms of Croatian citizens, why then 2/3 we do not also vote on the Law on Electronic Communications because it is absolutely about limiting freedom. So it is absolutely about limiting freedom and human rights of Croatian citizens, which is no longer clearly prescribed by the law of anyone, nor how long it will apply, nor that those who are under surveillance should be informed, nor what will be done with the data after the time of observation has passed as well as that there will be parliamentary supervisory over this process. So this is all about me leaning towards totalitarianism. And that's why we need 2/3 of the majority. In addition, the profession also said that the question of how effective such methods of monitoring can be.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-26-0.u195331	Hrelja's representative also reported for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-26-0.u195332	Dear fellow Hajduks, of course, I appreciate the provision in this concession law that forest land and forests are not given to concessions, but I am asking how can you in your neighbouring municipality of Voćin, where you live in the neighbouring county, the forests are cut, the local sawmills do not have enough materials to process, and the big players have too much to do or to extract forest buildings and their saws and their distribution chains work. Can Croatian forests survive this centralised not leading and making decisions on the distribution of forest wealth, not leading to the employment of the local population? I've convinced myself that there is, that people live on that work, and that for them, life means, forests are a huge fortune, and someone else is benefiting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-26-0.u195333	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-26-0.u195334	Thank you, colleague Hrelja. I couldn't agree more. So there are a whole series of problems and Croatian forests should be focused on added value not in terms of profits, but added value for the Republic of Croatia. So, for our producers, for the local community, etc., I'm afraid it's not at this point, that they're more focused on profit and it's absolutely not good. You have set an example of Voćin, but there are many such examples, we can begin to list them, I can list them for you. But other problems are also private forests, private forests that exploit too much. Here's only in our neighborhood you've got a very, very large part of the forest going back to the former owner, it's a diocese if I'm not mistaken, there's something that's been returned to the former dignitaries or nobles. So we ran out of one large forest fund that the Croatian forests ruled over. This depends on both jobs and the well-being of local communities, but also some social elements such as heating.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-26-0.u195335	Thank you. The individual debate on this point was also attended by MP Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-26-0.u195336	My colleagues and colleagues, when we talk about concessions then we should talk about concessions as is said here, of 23, meaning what we can give in the concession, it's from water, forest, agricultural land, mineral raw materials, maritime goods, which says that in the Republic of Croatia we have a significant part of what is state-owned and what we give in concessions. I will now say and deny my colleague Hajdukovic right now when he said he was doing nothing about legal initiatives. However, I think that the MOST Club has given the most legal initiatives so far, and I personally have made a proposal here recently since this crisis on agricultural land that you were talking about was unfortunately only 400 000 hectares of agricultural land today, concessions have been given to our farmers 11 000 square meters. I've given the law is because the local self-government has, the triba make a program of land allocation, should do this, is al triba, the triba consent of the county, the counties return it. And now at this point, what do you need? Tribba kick those sheriffs out, is that your principle? I mean, we need to speak openly. This is about the credibility of the Republic of Croatia, 800,000 hectares of unprocessed land, of which 400 000 property of the state, only 11,000 hectares are divided. So not even 3%, 2-3% divided agricultural land, left in the weeds. And of course I've given the law that's in the procedure now, signed it enough to be in emergency procedure, so here's if the government is going to let in an emergency procedure here, 16 parliamentary deputies signed me, I thank them, and at this point we have no reason to talk about the concession of that thing not to solve. At least now we've seen what made us an import lobby and vermin inside the ministries. With this I call on Minister Vukkovic, the Minister of Agriculture to do something urgently and to assign this land, not to stand in this crisis. We see if the headquarters at this point works well for civil protection we see that the Minister of Agriculture is similar to what they say about the Minister of Economy Horvat, the Minister of Agriculture Code is "Alice in Wonderland". Well, under urgent circumstances, not only did I say to open up these markets, but also to share, assign agricultural land, remove the waste of these divisions, release those approvals to the e-counties, so the ministry, local self-government, when it does, I will support it. Let him find a model and a way to be in line with the procedure to shorten it, not that the system is a kosara car, everyone is held by no one, the mayor of local self-government, the mayoral department of the mayor. And that's how it works in us. This is why we currently have the meaning of 800,000 hectares of unprocessed agricultural land, and of that half of it is a state problem, it's a key problem, which is why we import, and we never give incentives to farmers again, and we never import and never produce less. So it's time to take things seriously. I'm calling, I'm calling everyone, I'm not going to talk about what happened on the marine good, I'm not going back now, it's not maybe a moment, what about mineral raw materials, the Republic of Croatia is a rich state. We have a forest, also a huge resource where unfortunately our sawmills very little get into being this, more is exported than, unfortunately, in various different ways than you get extra value through the finished product. When I see in Gorski Kotar we have saw saw mills, we have experts in the area, and eventually people went and, and the balvanies went down to Italy for example and they created finished products for our people, we emptied the areas. So it was all going wrong. If now is not the time in this crisis to see that you've done everything wrong, all Government, then when will be the moment, when will be the moment? And now we're making mistakes again where we let the trade chains sell foreign products, cheese, fruit, vegetables, strawberries of Spanish and whose I mean will all be, and while our domestics, produce our cheeses, our farmers, our orchards, our people who produce in greenhouses, for example. Here's the Castelan greenhouse, the man who fights down with a lot of problems, where he's going to sell his breakup and the material now? In what way? It is urgent to open markets and assign agricultural land, and let the Minister of Agriculture wake up from sleep and not be "Alice in Wonderland".
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-26-0.u195337	Thank you. Replica was reported by MP Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-26-0.u195338	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague, when I was saying that you should propose I know that you've proposed a lot of laws, some I've supported, I was thinking specifically about this crisis that we should also propose solutions. But you're absolutely right about forestry and forest management. We have come into a position to export raw materials, and that our millers and our industry have no opportunity at all to obtain raw materials or cannot even obtain finished products. We had a situation where the logs went to Austria and Italy, and then they came back to us like expensive furniture. So the added value is completely lost. And I think this crisis and as far as the forest is concerned, and as far as agricultural land is concerned, it's an opportunity for us to really consider the management policy of this wealth because now the crisis is going to show you how dependent we really are on imports, how much agricultural production is devastated and how much we're actually going to be in an awkward position because we can't even calm down half of our needs with agricultural production.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-26-0.u195339	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-26-0.u195340	Thanks a lot, buddy. Well, that's exactly it. So we have quality raw materials as far as the forest is concerned, extra value of our people have moved out and are creating extra value there. That is why we have proposed a number of laws, the Law prohibiting the sale of agricultural land to residents, the ban on importing, transport, planting and sale of GMOs, I personally proposed this to encourage domestic production and eco-production. We proposed, an example of the law, which is why we lost part of sovereignty because we gave everything to strangers. Concessions on water, too, is a very important issue. Why would my Cetina have someone pack water from the top of Cetina without being a stranger? Why, what's that reason? So, we have lost some sovereignty and now in this crisis we have to do everything to get back sovereignty we can Republic, if Hungary can protect agricultural land, there is no sale to foreigners, then there is no reason for Croatia to do so too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-26-0.u195341	Thank you. With this, if there are no other objections, I conclude the debate. We'll vote on it when the conditions are met. Tomorrow we will continue to work at 9.30 p.m. on the first topic at tomorrow's session will be the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Attorneyship, first reading, P.Z. No. 884. Thank you. SESSION DISCONTINUED
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-26-0.u195342	Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on concessions, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 856. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: ‘1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on concessions and 2. Any comments and proposals will be sent to the applicant to consider them when establishing the final proposal of the Law." Who's against it? Who's restrained? Keep your hands where I can see you. And who's in? I find that most of the votes have come to the conclusion that it has been proposed by the parliamentary working bodies, and the result is 114 for, 5 abstentions and 10 against.
