ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-27-0.u195343	This goes on in the agenda. The first is: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Attorneyship, First Reading, P.Z.E. No, 884; The Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia under Article. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the The Rules of Procedure of HS. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply to this item of the agenda. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. Does the Government's representative want to further explain his opinion? Mr. Justice Minister Drazen Bosnjakovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-27-0.u195344	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honorable MPs and MPs. You have before you a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Attorneyship. The Law on Attorneyship regulates the establishment and operation of lawyers as an independent and independent service which ensures legal assistance to natural and legal persons in the exercise and protection of their rights and legal interests. The draft law has been adopted primarily in order to meet the 6 measures set out in the first action plan for the liberalisation of the market for services and the Government of the Republic of Croatia has adopted this plan as of 31 October 2019 and, in accordance with the established existence of certain regulatory restrictions relating to the legal service in the Republic of Croatia. The measures are listed, in part, in line with the need to bring our legislation further into line with the European acquis relating to the attorneyship and provision of services, which the EU Commission has stated in the letter of formal notice of the EU Commission and by additional letter, as well as the official notices of 24 January 2019. The procedure before the Commission concerning these notifications, it is still ongoing and the indication of the Republic of Croatia is considered. In order to implement the aforementioned measures, or more effectively achieve the freedom to provide legal services, and to facilitate the provision of legal services in the Republic of Croatia, lawyers from EU Member States and Croatian lawyers in the Republic of Croatia and in EU Member States, I plan to allow the provision of legal services that also involve consulting services on the law of the Republic of Croatia within the branches of law offices in the Republic of Croatia. The limitation of the possibility of setting up only one office will be abolished, so at present such a provision of the Law on Attorneyship, that lawyers can only have one office, and this will enable them in principle to have more. An opportunity will be introduced to establish the working relationship of one lawyer with another lawyer who is independently engaged as an employer and a joint lawyer's office. So the lawyer won't have to be the head of the office, but he'll be able to get into a working relationship with another colleague where he'll actually be in a working relationship as a lawyer. Excessive requests will be lifted when enrolment is made to the directory of foreign lawyers. Today, we have put a lot of burden on this process with the various documentation that lawyers from EU member states need to contribute. This way, we're actually making it quite easier. Also, a restriction on the termination of attorney's office will be lifted for lawyers who for more than 6 months for no good reason do not carry out a lawyer's activity, and more precisely, the way of verifying the knowledge of Croatian law for foreign lawyers. It also introduces the possibility of using a qualified electronic signature in the business of a lawyer to participate in electronic communications, and in accordance with the procedural rules. So, this law even more precisely harmonizes our legislation with those standards of EU legislation. With these amendments, we open up a simpler approach to our market for lawyers registered in EU Member States. This law also allows our lawyers to function better because today they are limited to one office, and after the adoption of this law, they will also have the opportunity to have more offices. Here, the law is in the first reading, we'll follow all your suggestions and prepare for second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-27-0.u195345	I thank the Honorable Minister. We have three replicas. The first is Honorable representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-27-0.u195346	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. Under normal circumstances, I would like to commend this law on this debate and support all proposals. However, these are not normal circumstances. These are circumstances in which some courts do not work because they have been diagnosed with a coronary virus, these are situations where in Zagreb, the County Court, the Commercial Court and the Supreme Court cannot work because buildings are damaged in an earthquake, and you have not said a word about it. Dear Mr. Minister, I have been warning you of the problem of time-outs for days, and I have shown you that the European Court of Human Rights has suspended the course of deadlines, but yesterday you were similarly called upon by the President of the Supreme Court. I don't expect you to answer me in this replica because a minute is certainly not enough to answer, but I expect you to contact us as soon as possible after my or some other debate and tell us what measures you're taking to resuscitate the situation in the judiciary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-27-0.u195347	Thank you. The reply to the replica, the Honorable Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-27-0.u195348	Thank you very much. I agree with you that I can't tell you in a minute what we're doing, but the situation is as difficult as in all the other segments, we're taking measures of the situation as possible, as stabilized in all the courts. What the courts and the state's attorneys are doing is emergency procedures, everything we can delay for some other time is delayed. With a more systematic solution to what you've been talking about on the deadlines, we'll be right in front of you, and we have a solution that we're working on, I think we're very fast here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-27-0.u195349	The next replica is Honorable Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-27-0.u195350	Minister, here's this law that you've passed on to us Assembly attorneys about lawyers I would also refer to one important question that is now significant and it would be good for the public to know, it's a strike for prisoners who are in the investigative prison, who have no judicial verdict, in Split 20 strikes, because they fear the coronal infection of viruses that say nothing is being done to protect them, and of course there are judicial officers. My question of what you've done and why people who don't have the rightful judgments are still innocent because they're not convicted, what you're doing because yet these people are going to get most of them out of a prison of investigation, so tell the public what you've done and what measures you're taking because I don't believe that people are now strikein' for no reason. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-27-0.u195351	The answer, the minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-27-0.u195352	Every time it comes to an investigative prison, it's about people who are still protected by constitutional presummation of innocence. However, the Law on Criminal Procedure knows the Institute of Criminal Penitentiary, and that is exactly what has been applied here in Split. We're just doing what the court ordered. In my view, there is no reason for this strike, and I call this way to stop the strike and the number of strikers is smaller than it was at first, and we have indeed taken all security measures related to hygiene measures, related to the control of people who should, we have banned entry into our prisons, we have banned the use of convenience to avoid such communication and risks and the dangers of the introduction of the virus. It is that the risk to these judicial officers and officials is because they come from the outside world and there are some possibilities, but the prison system is protected and we do not have any such incident situation at all, so far it is very well functioning. We've got a few self-insulations and we're monitoring the situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-27-0.u195353	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? They don't want to. I'm opening a debate. The first to hold the debate was announced by a respected representative of Peja Grbin, a SDP representative club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-27-0.u195354	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues, as I have already said in my replica, it is a little unusual at this time to discuss this law which basically refers to a much quieter and more regular state. However, this law is ahead of us and our obligation as Parliamentarians is to say a word about it. For years, many lawyers have pointed to a very illogical practice, which is that a lawyer can establish a working relationship with a law firm, but can't go to another lawyer and another law firm. I believe that the proposed measure is very good and that this illogicality will correct even in a situation where every day we have seen an increase in the number of lawyers in the Republic of Croatia will bring little order to that market. Well, that's something to say goodbye anyway. Measures concerning the accession of lawyers from the Republic of Croatia to other EU Member States, and we will have a much higher situation for lawyers from other EU Member States to Croatia, and this is where they deal with their profession is inevitable. It is clear to me that many colleagues and colleagues, especially in today's situation, are in contempt of competition, but by joining the EU, we have accepted openness, we have accepted the possibility of free movement of people, businesses, etc., and it is inevitable that this happens on the lawyer's market as well. All in all, when we draw the line, the measures proposed by this law, I repeat, that regular time would be appropriate, acceptable and the SDP Representatives' Club in this respect has no objections and will support the adoption of this law. However, we are not in a regular situation, the Republic of Croatia is in exceptional circumstances certainly, perhaps in an emergency, we will certainly discuss this here in the Croatian Parliament these days and we should talk about it. Especially when this extraordinary situation shows special, special, particularly negative circumstances in the judiciary. The Croatian judiciary is otherwise in trouble, these problems are highlighted in times of crisis. Procedures stand, criminal proceedings especially. I read that, for example, the building in which the USKOK is located is also damaged, which leads to its ability to conduct the tasks entrusted to it by law. But as I've already said, there's a whole series of problems in the courts. For example, in Pula a few days ago, among the first cases, he was also at the municipal or court in Pula, which led to the blockade of the building. The mail stays in the boxes, colleagues can't pick up the mail, they don't know what verdicts they're waiting for, they can't protect their clients' rights. After that, as if that wasn't enough, there was an earthquake. The buildings of numerous courts have been damaged. The debates cannot be held in Zagreb, the file cannot be reached. And finally, we have a restraining order from the place of residence. Of course, in Zagreb there is no problem, you can move between Sesveto and Gajnica, you can if you need to get to a lawyer and give him power of attorney. But how is it in other places? Since it is in small municipalities that do not have lawyers, where citizens who need legal protection at the moment, for example because the employer took advantage of the opportunity to fire some workers under the exception of the crisis, the worker is in a difficult situation as to how to start his job, process and protect his rights. And we know, for example, that in working relationships for the protection of rights you have to react within 15 days. That is why I appeal to you, and I am glad that you have said this in response to my reply that as soon as possible you come to HS with a package of measures and that, for example, as is the case at the European Court of Human Rights, we regulate which deadlines will not run. Of course, this cannot be applied to, for example, detention. The detention is one measure in which deadlines must be swift and must be expedient, especially at the time when we need to sanction the perpetrators of certain specific crimes that occur exclusively in the crisis, the judicial system must work and deal with these cases. However, in other cases that are not really urgent at this time, from the owners, to some compensation damage, let's postpone the time limit, let's postpone them, will continue when the situation calms down. If there is no basis for this in existing laws, and I'm afraid there is no, my proposal is to amend the Constitutional Law at the Constitutional Court to allow the Constitutional Court to extend those deadlines, and then we can see some other things because there is no possibility of electronic submissions and electronic communications with the court there. And of course the Law on Courts to allow the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia to intervene in this situation. Such changes will be useful, protect the rights of Croatian citizens that could be lost due to the crisis and ensure that the judiciary can concentrate on those cases that are currently a priority. And that is certainly the persecution of those who abuse the coronary virus situation for their own benefit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-27-0.u195355	I thank the esteemed representative of the coat of arms. The next debate is the distinguished representative Tomislav Panenic, the Club of Representatives of the Independent Youth List.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-27-0.u195356	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues. As the extraordinary time has been said, but the law that is applicable at all times and the changes themselves should improve the state of attorney's office and exactly the state of attorney would have spoken. I will commend at this time the government that implements these changes is meaningful and positive. But I also have to say that in the work of this government, one of the major affairs that have just been tied to the attorney's office has arisen. The hot mail affair we had lawyers representing on the one hand and the government, on the other hand, represented for example. Russian VTB, such as Šavoric and Smrček. It said lex Agrokor, we had a lawyer named Tina Doleski who was representing the most hit fund on one side, on the other hand was an adviser to the Ramljaks. And then it was already an affair. And it's not that we care about it, but we can see, and when there were negotiations on the unfinished mast again, lawyer Šavoric appears as a representative of the Dutch Jan De Zero, the same one where the current Prime Minister recorded his own video, in his office, filmed the video. The procedures started were even from the HOK, but it ended with a rejection, no one lost their legal license. Do we need to welcome the state of attorney's office where, I say, we should recognise those who do their job, represent their clients and apply positive Croatian law? Should we also welcome that these affairs occur and that, especially in the conditions of the crisis, and all of the cases I have listed were the conditions of the crisis, the crisis in Agrokor, the crisis in Uljanik? What do we need now, in this crisis, to expect again that someone close to the rulings will appear in order to disrupt the entire system of attorneys, or will even appear to us some larger players who will come from the EU market, a much more powerful house that will bring additional unrest? And that's what the ministers need to say and that's what they need to be warned about, and that's what needs to be solved. Unfortunately, it will not solve this law if such conflicts of interest that arise are already prescribed by law, but we see as everything else in the Republic when a regulation is passed in its application does not have enough determination to implement and that it is ultimately shown that the law should be respected, and especially should be respected by those most in their daily work. And how can we expect the judiciary to work much better then? On the one hand there are huge references to courts from all levels of courts, from those municipal, county at the end and to the Supreme Court we constantly have situations that we listen to here and which not so little way ask us what opinion even the current policies are. When we combine such a situation with the judiciary, on the other hand, we wonder how to reward those who are positive in this, those who really do their job in a good way, who work within the framework of a positive Croatian right and who can improve their work. When lawyers, these judges, these participants of all these elements will come out and that we can finally have a comment on something positive or it always sort of stays under the rugs of these affairs that do not occur a small number of times and that have a strong and significant impact on the stability of our system. And now it's time for the minister to, with his authority and government, this one simply says that we should stop. It cannot appear like this in a way that every little bit of the system that should protect law enforcement should be the weakest link in law enforcement, the Constitution and ultimately the most important rights of Croatian citizens. As such, we will support the law, but I would also say that what my colleague Grbin has stated may be a moment more important to discuss here, so that those who follow us to see that it affects the daily life in which they now live. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-27-0.u195357	I would like to thank the esteemed representative Paninic. The next debate is a respected representative of Tomislav Sauch on behalf of the HNS Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-27-0.u195358	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, dear Minister. I join myself with the thoughts of my colleagues that this is about a principle of quality law and changes that are necessary in view of the obligations that we have undertaken by joining the EU and the whole time I was reading this law I was actually thinking as he said was a colleague of the coat of arms that possibly one thing we might have to talk about, to think about whether this is exactly the best moment. In addition to these arguments presented by a colleague of the coat of arms, what he would like to point out is that our lawyers will certainly not be in a position that they were in until a month ago. I mean, at the end of the day, as much as it might cost, one aspect of a lawyer's call that's not being considered, but they're entrepreneurs, they're in the real sector, they're doing it, and they're absolutely certain that a certain level of income is going to fall on them, and that they're definitely also going to be affected by all of these problems that have now occurred to us in the economic crisis, a recession that can come to us. Several of them came to me and wondered if this was your right time for us to further liberalise the legal services market in the Republic of Croatia. I am aware that we have obligations as a member of the EU and that is fine, but these circumstances where we are are all just unorthodox, they are on one side of the world, global, European, but we have had some more tragedies in these last few days that are really at the level of science fiction, but they have happened to us and put us in one much more difficult position than other EU members who are just as affected by the virus. The pandemic and tomorrow possibly the crisis. So, I think it's in everyone's best interest that every economic operator we have is helped at this point, not to be led into a situation that today is going to be tomorrow, i.e. when this law enters into force, there is more competition. I don't think it's realistic to expect that the law offices will now especially in this situation Croatian, I don't know, flock to Austria in Vienna to open their branches there and take bread from Austrian lawyers there rather than be the other way around. In these items, which are related to the provision of consulting services, nothing in principle changes as much as I've seen, but where I personally don't understand why, you'll probably explain it further in the final word, I don't know why you're actually throwing out one standard that has been true to foreign lawyers, and that's that when you sign up to the register of foreign lawyers, so before they start acting as a lawyer in all rights and obligations. the possibilities, that before then they must do something that all lawyers in the Republic of Croatia must do, which is to pass a judicial examination. Now, the judicial exam I personally passed it didn't, a lot of people around me passed it, we all know how serious it is, but it represents itself, it's not only there to force someone to sit at home for three months, and that what they say is harder and to pass that test but it's there for the Croatian state to say ok, you passed the judicial exam under a special law, we guarantee that you are now competent to represent the rights of people, so the citizens of the Republic of Croatia in front of the bodies, means before the courts. And now we add the possibility, so we explicitly say that these lawyers now, the new, these foreign lawyers that are entered in the book of foreign lawyers have the right to represent cases before courts in the Republic of Croatia, and on the other hand we have abolished the obligation to pass a judicial exam. And there was only one obligation left, which was before that test on the knowledge and knowledge of the legal system of the Republic of Croatia, except now the programme will come up with and implement the Bar Association, and no, I guess that's what the Ministry of Justice used to do before. Now, I don't know, I suppose the bar of attorneys will look very hard to protect the interests of their members, but yet, so far, the legal standard has been much shorter. Now, so far, there has been no possibility that this standard could possibly be reduced by someone's decision. So, both someone from Croatia and someone who comes, say, from Austria. And I don't think it would be bad if we just kept that one definition. So, that will take place as it is now, has so far been defined in accordance with the programme applicable to passing a judicial examination under a special law. So it's to be one standard under which you can't possibly go. I'm aware that it's probably not going to come up by now, I don't know, a huge flow of foreign lawyers, let's say from Austria or Germany, after all, there's a language barrier. But then again, I think that, I say, that standard isn't just about protecting the attorney's office like, say, I don't know, some kind of business, but the standard, the protection of standards, the one that guarantees you a judicial exam. Otherwise, there's no need, people finish five years of law school, we go two and a half years or how many practices, practice with some lawyer, then we're going to cancel for the Croatian judicial exam, so we're going to introduce, I don't know, an expert exam, knowledge of the legal system of the Republic. That's not good. So that's not good, that's one step back. And what I've noticed, too, is that now the lawyers of strangers who are going to sign up in those lawyers' books, that they're getting a little liberalized, i.e. A little bit of the same thing, the requirements about how old they must be documents that prove they're really in their home countries, means they're listed in books, etc. So far, these documents weren't supposed to be over three months old, and now it's being lifted. I think it's reasonable for three months, and if anyone wants to engage in such an activity, let them go to their home countries, let those papers be taken out, it shouldn't be a problem for anyone. Or I believe that's, or I mean, we do these things by clicking the mouse, too, so I don't see why it should move. So that's kind of basic, let's say, grudges. They're not big, I think they're reasonable, and if they were to, so I, on behalf of the club, can say that the HNS Club will vote for this law, but here, I appeal that they might try and, meaning these, and those details right, I think that the law will make it even better, that no one can say, let's say, I don't know that it puts foreign lawyers in a more unfavourable position and that it violates liberalisation. I don't know personally, but I believe that if I didn't know, one of us is a lawyer, that is. I'm not, I'm just a dipl. A lawyer, but someone who wanted to go to Germany to have to pass a judicial exam in Germany. I doubt, frankly, that you would only have to come and pass the exam on the knowledge of Austria's legal system. So, sorry, Germany, so here, I'd like to pray nicely if you can at least think about it and in principle, that would be it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-27-0.u195359	Thank you, Agent Sauchi. Next for the debate is the distinguished representative Dragana Jeckov, the SDSS Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-27-0.u195360	I thank the esteemed vice president of HS. Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. In addition to the expression, I consider it perfectly appropriate for everyone here in the assembly to wish good health, as well as for all who follow us. So today, in these circumstances, it's really perfectly appropriate and perfectly fine. As we had the opportunity to hear, the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia defines attorneyship as an independent and independent service which ensures legal assistance to natural and legal persons in the exercise and protection of their rights and legal interests. As such, it falls under regulated free professions, which is regulated by specific regulations. The role of the attorney's office differs from state to state, but regardless, the affairs done by lawyers are mostly the same in all countries. These are the most frequent transactions relating to the provision of various forms of legal assistance, in particular the provision of legal advice, the assembly of contract documents, wills, statements, complaints, complaints, proposals, requests, exceptional legal remedies and other submissions, and, of course, party representation. The lawyer may carry out his or her activities on his own in a joint law firm or in a law firm established by at least 2 lawyers, both as a public company or as a limited liability company. A lawyer shall not carry out activities that are incompatible with the reputation and independence of a lawyer. The basic Law on Attorneyship in the Republic of Croatia was adopted in '94. It's been 25 years since he went into effect. It is precisely this law that defined attorneyship as an independent and independent service, as I said, which deals with legal assistance to natural and legal persons in the achievement and protection of their rights and legal interests. After Croatia's entry into the EU, the European labour market has opened up for the Croatian population, making it easier to employ citizens of the Republic of Croatia in other Member States. On the other hand, access to the Croatian labour market has been opened to citizens of other EU Member States. In this respect, Directive 2005/36 of the European Parliament on the recognition of professional qualifications is important. That Directive guarantees persons who have acquired professional qualifications in one of the Member States access to the same profession and the same rights when performing that profession in another Member State as nationals of that Member State. In order to implement that Directive in national legislation, the Law on regulated professions and the recognition of foreign professional qualifications has been adopted. The relevant Law on Attorneyship should be amended in order to facilitate the exercise of attorneyship by Croatian lawyers in the Republic of Croatia and in the EU Member States, and to facilitate the exercise of law in the Republic of Croatia and in the Member States of the EU. The proposed amendments create an opportunity for the existing provisions to be amended or improved because of the need for further harmonisation of this law with the European acquis. In order to effectively achieve the freedom to provide legal services, as well as to facilitate the provision of attorneyship in the Republic of Croatia for lawyers from EU Member States, and to Croatian lawyers in the Republic of Croatia and in EU Member States, it is proposed within the Republic of Croatia, hence the establishment of a branch and which enable the provision of legal services that include the consulting services on the law of the Republic of Croatia. The proposed amendments allow foreign lawyers, in accordance with last year's market liberalisation plan, to provide legal services that include consultation on the law of the Republic of Croatia, not related to the legal system from which it comes. The lawyer from the EU Member State shall be entered in the register of foreign lawyers who may carry out a lawyer’s office in the Republic of Croatia under the name ‘law’ and with the rights and duties in the exercise of the attorney’s office which fulfil the conditions laid down in Article 2. 48th century of the 1st century of this law and, of course, if you pass the exam from the knowledge of the legal order of the Republic of Croatia. The HOC shall be empowered by its acts to regulate the programme and the way in which this examination is carried out more precisely by its acts. The programme and method of carrying out examinations from the knowledge of the legal order of the Republic of Croatia for each applicant for enrolment shall determine the chamber taking into account the differences in training of lawyers from the Member States in relation to lawyers from the Republic of Croatia. The entry into the registers of the HOC shall be decided independently by the chamber, and in any case the requested person must assess independently the existence of a standard of knowledge of the legal order sufficient to carry out the lawyership. For this reason, the establishment of the programme and the way in which this examination is carried out is entrusted to the HOC, which is entrusted under the Law on the Regulation of Professionals and the recognition of Foreign Professional Qualifications. The draft law provides for a way to carry out attorneyship by prescribing that a lawyer can also establish a working relationship with a lawyer who performs his or her own activities both in a law firm and in a lawyer who performs the attorney's office in a joint law firm. Therefore, restrictions and opportunities for the establishment of only one office are lifted and the possibility is introduced to establish the working relationship of one lawyer with another who is self-employed as an employer and to the joint attorney's office. I find it positive that the proposal also provides for a reduction of the requirements for enrolment in the directory of foreign lawyers, as well as a simplification of the registration procedure in the register of foreign lawyers. It is positive to simplify the procedure for verifying their knowledge, or more precisely to edit the way in which knowledge of Croatian law is verified. The possibility of lawyers being able to have more offices is foreseen, but one office will be the headquarters. The procedure for the closure of the lawyer's office is simplified, restrictions on the termination of duties for lawyers who for more than 6 months for no good reason do not carry out a lawyer's, a lawyer's activity are lifted. We consider the positive introduction of the possibility of using electronic signatures in business, and electronic communication, and in accordance with the procedural regulations. The SDSS representative club will support this proposal in its first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-27-0.u195361	I'd like to thank the esteemed representative of Jack's. The next debate is Honorable Representative Miro Bulj, the club of representatives of the Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-27-0.u195362	Thank you very much, Vice President, fellow Members and colleagues, the Honorable Minister. Here's what we're talking about is the law you've given on the amendments to this Law of Attorneyship. I think my colleagues have said what they have to say about liberalisation and about foreign lawyers. However, the current situation is that today we need to talk a little bit of that and ask you a few questions, and it is also given to think perhaps to some extent when this situation at this point is essentially limited to our fellow citizens. to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Or as it was said at that time that just now our people in certain municipalities, local self-governments are not able to have their own lawyer, legal counsel, and that certain deadlines are going and that within these deadlines they must either appeal or in some way do what the legal procedure requires them to do. However, there are now a number of restrictions, as is said by the possible isolation of certain and self-insulation of certain lawyers, courts and problems that local self-government has, today, we have restrictions that really examples of certain local self-government are, have no less municipalities, are literally villages that are connected and do not have, simply cannot reach their lawyer, their legal representative and at this point should bring these measures in. To extend those deadlines or to find some model, a legal model which you would like to agree on in the Government and with these measures come out because at this point, citizens will not all have the possibility to complain within the legal deadlines or to do whatever is necessary in this, which is necessary in certain procedures that are being conducted. Of course, you should also think here about the executive procedures, about the moratorium on top, that you should think about because simply people won't be able to, there won't be absolute incomes and a number of citizens calling that simply their salaries, the performances that are in the processes, that this problem will survive them if one member who worked, the other is under the roof, simply if this one is simply not going to be able to pay if this one loses his job, and we know that people will unfortunately lose their jobs, that it should mean that this situation protects our citizens that this period when, as an example, we have accepted your 63 measures of this government even though we haven't been satisfied with these measures, we've given amendments on the issue and not this one that essentially eliminates all obligations of examples to entrepreneurs, as well as in this case, does not mean a delay. But at this point, I think it takes a really broad one of these legal ones, people don't trust in the judiciary above all. And at this point when they can't even have their legal counsel, the many don't work, they don't have the money at all to communicate with lawyers, and even physically they can't access lawyers, and even lawyers are basically at this point people who are also possible to be either infected or in some way isolated at this moment from any action, and so the whole courts may be this way, that in this way they will be isolated that they won't simply work. And now the question is, what do you do now? Do you have any way, because the deadlines, if it's 15 days of appeal, if it's 30 days of deadline, I don't know what's going on? Are you taking these measures, I'd like you to tell us here if it's very important at this point that our citizens, is that what they expect to hear? Here, we're all parliamentary representatives, I don't know if any of us have received any similar invitations.../incomprehensible/... so on the 10 calls you'll see here e-mails on all the club council representatives came to 10ths, if not 100ths where people are just warning about these current life problems that we have to give certain measures. As time goes on, these 63 measures are obviously not enough, and these measures should simply be coordinated in the way it happens on the ground. Yesterday I'm here, let's say it's now headquarters and accepted, what's good, i.e. partly accepted so that these speakers can also send messages that at this moment we must protect Croatian citizens, legally in this case. I was saying here yesterday that under urgent market opening, and here's some market, because our agricultural producers will literally have to pour milk and throw fruit, throw strawberries, everything that comes to us, so here's how I'm calling you to take the necessary measures immediately or urgently bring them in if our people are not only threatened by health, they're threatened now and existentially, most of them and in this fear of existence, we need to send these measures and messages to them, and I think you're going to talk about a matter like I said about the moratorium or I don't know what about the procedures of the appeal deadlines, by the moratorium, in terms of the execution, the execution of some kind of plan to bring here. It would be good if you, as justice minister, sent these messages from here and said what you're working on, and that's for the safety of the citizens who are now in isolation. We all invite you to stay at home, and in fact their deadlines are going, their deadlines are going either to the final or to any other. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-27-0.u195363	I thank the esteemed representative, Mir Bulj. The next is the distinguished representative Marija Jelkovac, the HDZ Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-27-0.u195364	Good afternoon, Vice President, respected ministers, respected colleagues and colleagues, I warmly welcome you all, and I would especially like to take advantage of the occasion and welcome everyone from the national headquarters to our local headquarters who are truly committed to ensuring the best condition and protection of all of us in the country, as well as all our fellow citizens and those who work hard, and those who follow us from their homes, let us remain all who do not have to go home because this is in the interest of protecting all of us. Here's even though we've had a chance to hear here from some colleagues that maybe it's not the time for this kind of bill, so somehow I might even be the opposite attitude. I think that even in this time, we must try to maintain some sort of regular state, at least as much as possible, so at these intervals between the passing of those urgent laws that are really important and the intervention for the action and calming of the situation that is present, also at these intervals between the adoption of such laws, I think we must work and discuss those laws that concern some regular and normal life. One such proposal is also this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Lawyership. As has already been said, the Law on Attorneyship is very important because it regulates the activities of the attorneyship as an independent service that primarily protects the rights and legal interests of all natural and legal persons in the Republic of Croatia. These amendments and amendments to the laws have been first and foremost joined in order to comply with Council Directives of the European Parliament and also to implement the measures of the first action plan for the liberalisation of the market for services accepted by the Government, so it is very important that this law, which in some ways promotes and regulates some new circumstances of the behaviour of this law enforcement service in the Republic of Croatia, which will be a step in some matters in relation to the current regulation, is indeed discussed today, and when possible. As far as this proposal is concerned, it is important because it enables our lawyers in the Republic of Croatia, and also outside the Republic of Croatia in EU countries to make it easier for lawyers, but also for lawyers from other EU countries, it also makes it easier for lawyers to carry out in the Republic of Croatia. What has already been said, which is the newspaper that introduces this proposal to amend and supplement the law, is above all that these lawyers of other EU Member States within the branch offices in the Republic of Croatia will be able to provide legal services which include a service of consultation on law in the Republic of Croatia. Furthermore, only one office is abolished and an opportunity is introduced for a lawyer to establish a working relationship with a lawyer, another lawyer who performs his own legal activity, but also with a joint lawyer's office. Excessive requests shall also be abolished when enrolment is made to the register of foreign lawyers and the restriction of the termination of the attorney’s office for lawyers who, for no reason, do not carry out a lawyer’s office for more than 6 months. There is also a way to verify the knowledge of Croatian law for foreign lawyers, and the programme under which it will be determined by the chamber. The possibility of using electronic signatures in the business of lawyers is introduced which is very important and I think it will also contribute to a more efficient implementation of the lawyer's activity as regards the amendments and additions to this law and its implementation, it does not require additional funding in the Republic of Croatia's budget, and since these amendments and additions will indeed contribute to a better and more efficient implementation of the legal activity and lawyers in the Republic of Croatia and also foreign lawyers in the HDZ club will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-27-0.u195365	I thank the distinguished representative, Maria Jelkovac. The next debate is the distinguished representative Vesna Pusic on behalf of the GLAS Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-27-0.u195366	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. We at the GLAS club just to say a few words about it, also think that in these really difficult circumstances it is necessary to combine intervention laws, intervention measures with as much normal life and regular work as possible. I already said that here on Wednesday when we discussed the Prison Act. Of course, all intervention measures, intervention laws should take precedence, but not to the extent that it is possible to create an atmosphere of panic. It takes as much as possible to contribute to that and that life takes place in those dimensions where it can be normal. However, we heard in the media yesterday that the government had passed a whole series of intervention laws or bill proposals and I expected that today, of course, we would, of course, be expecting today when we were expanding or adding new points to the agenda that we would get those points that the government was discussing yesterday, but they are not. And I have to say that I'm worried, does that mean they're being delayed, does that mean that these intervention measures are something that goes by without the Parliament and without the Parliament's insight and without a parliamentary debate? So this support of normality doesn't go so far as to give up parliamentary insight into intervention measures. These measures if the Government or the proposals of these measures were discussed yesterday and decided on them at its session, they should absolutely come to the Assembly meeting and we expect them here and expect that we will also expand our agenda. Now, as for these amendments and additions, it is by what it is seen to see the harmonisation of the rules for lawyers with the fact of Croatian membership in the EU and with EU directives. One thing that is further introduced which is certainly contributing, let's say the reduction of the duration of the procedure is the possibility of using the authorized electronic signature instead of the famous signature and the sealed documents, it's certainly good because we often use one side of electronic communication, and then physically carrying a piece of paper from the computer to the room-to-room computer, which is what the health system is known for, and I think the judicial ones, so that these innovations are certainly good. The legal services market is liberalised, so such as all colleagues and colleagues who spoke before me and said Croatian lawyers will be able to do better in other EU member states and vice versa. There's no limit to just one office anymore. Foreign lawyers may provide advice on the rights of the Republic of Croatia. It's defined in this new way of checking knowledge. It was, I must say, interesting to hear the remarks that my colleague Saucha made about the judicial exam, and since I don't know, I'm asking the minister, my assumption is that this is how it's regulated, it comes from reciprocity. So we regulate it so for foreign lawyers, as for our lawyers it is regulated in other Member States and that, therefore, the criteria are defined in this way. But I'm not sure, so that's why I'm asking. This law also abolishes the automatic termination clause for those who do not work for more than 6 months without a formally justified reason. One topic that is not the subject of this law, but speaking of attorneyship and speaking of liberalisation of the lawyer's market, and speaking of the possibility of lawyers from other Member States working in the Republic and representing clients in courts and legal proceedings, I ask what about one topic that we from GLAS have often talked about and which is very abandoned, and in these conditions, if anything, it will be only becoming more and more tragic, and this is a question of free legal assistance. When we change the law on attorneyship, it might not be bad to think that as a condition, as some integral part of the work of every law firm, determine at least one small segment of free legal assistance, because in these conditions in which, if I do not repeat everything that my colleagues have said, people will be even more difficult, accessibility only because of the limitations of movement, but also because of all the consequences of this crisis and when we no longer have these intervention measures as far as the coronary virus itself is concerned, when people face the economic consequences, with, on the other hand, the consequences, they do not know, the destruction of houses, homes, which occurred due to the earthquake in Zagreb, such an intervention measure would be truly welcome at this point, and if, the law profession is certainly one profession that does not suffer from poverty. Therefore, this particular period might be the right period to introduce some kind of minimum participation obligation to provide free legal assistance for a lawyer’s profession. Here, the GLAS Club will support these changes and additions, but would suggest first that the government send us to our debate what they discussed yesterday and secondly yesterday, to consider this possibility of free legal aid as some little stronger obligations for all who have a license. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-27-0.u195367	Thank you very much, MP Pusic. We've closed the club debate. We're going to an individual debate. He is the first to have a single debate, the distinguished representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-27-0.u195368	Thank you very much, colleagues and colleagues. Mr. Vice President, everyone who follows us in direct transmission. First, let me refer briefly to what my colleague Pusic said at the beginning. It would be good to discuss certain laws that would help citizens and the economy in HS as soon as possible. The government's meeting yesterday did not make any more significant proposals on the matter, only to delay elections in the units of some local self-government. We discussed the return of our soldiers, so unfortunately we still have no concrete proposals and concrete legal solutions that should come to HS for discussion and I would only warn all of us here, and the Croatian government in particular, there is one of the ministers and gave information to Croatian citizens, that the German Parliament had adopted a package of measures two days ago that most of the EU's parliaments are doing this, worth 750 billion euros and that if they took the equivalent of the power of the Croatian economy in relation to German, it would mean 12 billion euros to help the economy and citizens in the Republic, and we need, as we know, a whole set of laws to change and adopt a new budget so that these funds can be alocated and paid and I don't think that Croatia should just wait to get help from the EU, however, it is a good signal that we will help to solve all the damages that are caused by the Republic, but we need to be a little and more proactive, so the club for the representatives of SDP will probably give our citizens in the future through thefuture , which we will be able to make thefuture , and thefuture , so that we can be able to make thefuture , so that we can be able to move through thefuture , so that we can be able of oureconomy , and thefuture , so that we can be able to go through thefuture , and thefuture , so that we can be able to go through thefuture , so that we go through thefuture , so that we can be able to go through thefuture , so that we go through thefuture , so that we go through thefuture , so that we go through thefuture , andwe 's and we't with thefuture , andwe 's andwe 's andwe 's andwe 's andwe 's andwe 's andwe 's and we'tgo. As far as the particular law on attorneyship is concerned, I will absolutely support it. I think that the way in which the profession works and the law in the Republic of Croatia and in the EU must be harmonised and in some ways liberalised, allow people to carry out this activity in accordance with EU standards. And what would remind you of a debate last week that in these circumstances many procedures in the Republic of Croatia cannot take place in a normal way. When we talk about law enforcement, we need to be aware that many of the lawyers are in isolation, that many of some of the lawyers and infected, that it is very difficult to practice judicial practice, there should be seen by the Minister or the President of the Supreme Court and the judicial authority in the Republic of Croatia how to define and regulate it in times of crisis because many of our citizens cannot even exercise the most basic rights that should be related to their own actions or processes which, which are being conducted not only against them but also in civil disputes, and I think we should take care of that. Unfortunately, we have not seen any concrete proposal here today that would send a message to citizens that their rights will be protected and that they will be able to exercise their rights under special conditions in a way that does not diminish them. Because of course I can't, I can't, I can't protect my rights at the time of this crisis if I can't function normally and if the law offices can't function normally, unless the judiciary normally works and all those deadlines that are binding on Croatian citizens are very difficult to meet. This is a proposal perhaps for the Minister of Justice to consider at the next government meetings in order to give some suggestions and suggestions on how to regulate these problems at the moment, which most probably many of our citizens have, given that the judiciary in the Republic of Croatia does not work in the best way possible, that we have very many disputes and that this takes a very long and very long time in Croatian courts. I think that's one of the problems we should be taking care of here. But I absolutely support this law and, in some ways, again I am asking the Croatian Government to move forward with concrete laws that will help the Croatian economy and Croatian citizens to deal with this crisis as soon as possible. And after this crisis [[/Intruder: Thank you.]] As successful as possible. [[Intruder: Time]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-27-0.u195369	Thank you very much. The next debate is the esteemed representative Ivan Pernar. He's gone. He's losing his right to argue. The next debate is distinguished representative Marko Šimic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-27-0.u195370	I would like to thank Vice-President HS, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, MPs and MPs, distinguished ministers, Mr. Bošnjaković. My colleagues and colleagues, we are facing today's Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Attorneyship, which is an act of 19 March 2020. He arrived at HS for a hearing. We have heard today from previous exhibitors on behalf of clubs and individual debates and on the purpose of this law, which is to comply with the European acquis, and to implement the provisions of the directives in Croatian legislation. We have also heard of the definition that the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia defines attorneys as an independent and independent activity carried out by lawyers, and as such belongs to and regulated free interests. The jobs conducted by lawyers in EU Member States are similar to those carried out by Croatian lawyers in the Republic of Croatia. I will list only some of them, which are giving legal advice, putting together submissions for the court, drawing up other papers for use in legal traffic, representing the party before the court, and other legal aid operations. The aim of these implementations is, in fact, to liberalise the market and enable foreign lawyers from EU member states to carry out their job as a lawyer, a job for which they have acquired a degree, education and qualification in the Republic of Croatia according to the laws of the Republic of Croatia, as they do in their countries which are members of the EU. We've listed and mentioned four main acts here today, so I'm going to count them down and I'm just going to say briefly what this is all about. Directive 5/98 of the European Community which allows, therefore, the right to carry out a lawyer’s activity as an independent or non-permanent activity in a Member State is different from that in which a qualification for the exercise of a lawyership has been acquired. My colleagues said earlier that this directive was prescribed, so there are certain conditions. I'm not going to go into an individual discussion again in detail. I will also mention Directive 25/2013, which speaks of the right of business creation and freedom to provide services. There are also important Directive 123/2006 and Directive 249/77 aimed at facilitating the effective achievement of the freedom to provide legal services and other services in the field of EU member states. In fact, what did I want to mention in my individual discussion here? I've heard from many predecessors who have discussed a few things that I would like to talk about here before you, and is this really the topic where we hit the time of debate? Well, I think it is certainly because in these difficult times for the Republic of Croatia we must show citizens, the people that, to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, people who live in the territory of the Republic of Croatia that there are topics that we can agree on, that are certainly topics that are for the benefit of the people of Croatia and that are of interest to the Croatian people and that we are here for them and that we are working, therefore because of them. This topic is actually talking about something that is current today, but it will certainly be more relevant when the economy is launched, when economic flows are launched, when our economy breathes again and some kind of life, so that under this topic we show optimism that some better times are coming. It is important to stress that lawyers who will register in the Republic of Croatia and already have registered in 2018 show us statistics that we have 13 lawyers who are registered in the register of foreign lawyers, we have six Croatian lawyers who work in EU member states. It is important to note that people do not actually fear this because these lawyers are mostly specialised in certain branches of law, this is about economic crime, labour law, some corporate law, commercial law, and I believe that such people are certainly, this possibility of registering foreign lawyers in the Republic of Croatia will certainly give investors another, another additional legal certainty in investing therefore in the Republic of Croatia, and also Croatian workers and Croatian companies operating in the territory of EU member states will give one legal certainty because there are a lot of companies and a lot of workers who are as sent out and who work in the area of EU member states. And it is therefore important to send them a message that their lawyers can represent their companies and workers in the Republic of Croatia, and also show Croatian companies and workers that they have the same opportunity on the EU market Thank you, I will support this bill. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-27-0.u195371	I thank Representative Simic. Next debate, distinguished Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-27-0.u195372	Thank you, Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, this law is good, it could be accepted in the first reading, maybe if it has some kind of amendment. The only question is, was he needed right now? Here, a colleague from HDZ says, and in exceptional conditions, we have to act like there are no extraordinary conditions. So we don't have to, we don't have to, will the lawyers from Germany come tomorrow and open branches here? I'm sure he won't. I can't come first because the borders are closed. But do we have more important issues in the judiciary that we should solve? We've got a lot of them. There is no solution to the matter of delays, running deadlines, from some claims running tight interest, and courts can't work for objective reasons either there's an infection or they can't call the party because it's from another municipality, so the reasons are objective. And here the citizens will have damage, great damage. So we don't pass this law, they don't have any damage. We could have left him for later. The Croatian Attorney's Chamber, I don't know if you know, has changed the collective contract with the Association of Prosecutors, the lawyer's interns, reduced their fees. The state will give the lawyers 3,250 kuna and now instead of them increasing the state's legal compensation to their trainees who work for them, they will actually take advantage of this situation. That decision has been made, a treaty has been amended without a congregation, so it should be declared nothing, nothing, because this is an example of how someone abuses the situation for their own benefit. And it mostly comes from a very well-known law firm that mostly deals with performances. These are the things we must warn of, which we must look out for ministers not to happen in society and to prevent, to prevent damage to citizens. You have announced a package of measures, I welcome and look forward to them because in crisis situations we cannot act as if there are no crisis situations. We need to respond to the crisis situation. I have no objection to this law, as there is no SDP club, I have heard other clubs and it will certainly be adopted, it will receive support, but here I kindly ask you to come out with a set of laws to see all these problems that I, I am not a lawyer, I can't even predict what can happen in the judiciary. Three courts in Zagreb do not work, whether it can be organised by electronic means, I have heard that the Trade Court is so equipped that the judges can all work from home. Whether it's true or not, I don't know, but if it's true, then there's no reason not to work, so many people do, so let them do, if they can. This needs to be looked at, but these are the measures that we need to take, in these extraordinary conditions as soon as possible, to bring the system into operation so that it goes to the benefit of the citizens as much as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-27-0.u195373	Thank you, dear representative Stazic. The next debate is the final debate of the distinguished representative Tomislav Panenic on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Youth List.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-27-0.u195374	Ministers and finally what I'm going to tell you, your co-workers and your government associates, and that's the matter of security, is the most important thing right now. It's not just the safety of the infection, it's the feelings of the society that's being created, and that's why this law is on the trail, and that's why we're going to say once again we're going to support it. What is important now is that at these times of crisis, not everyone is solid, but there are a lot of those who want to take advantage of this situation and deal with various crimes. Now, many of our citizens are just relying on new technologies, cyber systems that try to solve their daily problems, discussing new models of selling on-line sales, how to access our market, and it is important that those changes to the laws that you are planning in the next time just be rigorous about such cases, not being what in one crisis is the need to use certain informational ignorance or other, and we see that there is an increasing percentage of what is happening and I fear that our citizens will encounter a number of problems, and let us not allow our judicial system to respond in a crisis to just such problems, and that is something that is ahead of us because every new time brings new criminals, which needs to be answered quickly and efficiently. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-27-0.u195375	Thank you, dear representative Panenic. Lastly, on behalf of the promoter, Honored Minister Drazen Bosnjakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-27-0.u195376	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, distinguished MPs and MPs. I thank you first, everyone for a constructive debate and what I can actually see, the support of this law is definitely of all clubs and the question of whether or not they need it, I fully understand everyone who has said that at this point there may be much more important things, however, the Assembly regularly ambushes, we have our own procedure, we have our own plan and we do according to it. But let me, since everyone has opened certain questions about the moment today, about the problems we're facing to say a few sentences and about it. First and foremost, the message is that the judiciary is also working under such difficult conditions of the judiciary working and working on the basis of good governance by the President of the Court of Justice, working on the basis and recommendations of the President of the Supreme Court, and working on the recommendations made by me. The judiciary is an independent branch, one area where in principle, we can't interfere in any way with the executive government, but I have given a whole series of recommendations and I see that they are being followed. First, it was important to say that we should do those emergency procedures. When I say emergency procedures, I mean procedures where we protect the rights of minors, where we protect ourselves as a society against perpetrators of criminal acts, these are the items where there are elements for detention. It's important stuff and it's happening and it's doing it. Everything we can postpone, the motion is to postpone, and that happens. Because what is important between us individuals, perhaps at this point and in this social context, can be in a certain period of time and delayed. A great deal of concern is expressed here for deadlines and I can say as far as deadlines are concerned, as less decisions from the system itself are now coming out, so there are fewer needs to respond to them in the team, so on. Pre-exclusive binding deadlines, so the volume is already smaller. What I have announced here, very soon we will come with a system law which we will look at to extend these pre-exclusive deadlines and yesterday, the day before yesterday I had a meeting with representatives of the Croatian Bar of Law where we have detected this issue, but there are various normative actually, normative constraints in our system, you know about that decision and a recommendation not to enter and change other laws and we are looking for that solution that will actually be in the Constitutional Court sustainablely. I think we found him, and we'll be right in front of you to regulate the extension of those pre-exclusive deadlines. There were also speeches about the performances. It's a difficult time and also one of the recommendations was to go with a delay in the performance that is not necessary. In doing so, I don't mean the executions, for example, where a minor child asks for an alimony, but a whole series of executions can wait for a better time and according to these recommendations, for example, our Public Bookmark Chamber has made a decision, they take suggestions for implementation based on credible documents such as in the last few years there are 700 thousand in the system, however, according to recommendations, they said, they don't go out. So, there's no such errandping at this point. There aren't even those who do the courts, and that's kind of, I mean justifiable at this time. When the situation is normalized, then we can, clearly, talk about it all. It was about electronic communication. You know that this very last-term government has been working very hard on electronic communication, that's something we're welcome to do. And our lawyers are communicating with courts by electronic means and what you were also talking about, a part of the judges because we wanted to reduce the number of these physical contacts within the courts that we don't have any parties, but that one part of the officials and judges are doing things outside and that's exactly what's happening by electronic means, they can do judgments in completed cases, and what's also happening. It was about working for these, for the earthquake that happened. On Sunday morning, I visited Zagreb literally every building, to see personally on the scene of the situation. You can see today already yesterday were actually the skeletons at the County Court building in Zagreb which was badly injured and we have made a plan where we will use space more rationally. And within the County Court in Zagreb there is a part that will be able to be used, but there is, for example, a Municipal Criminal Court in Zagreb that has not really suffered in particular. 3 The most difficult buildings have been hit by the County Court of Zagreb, the Commercial Court of Zagreb, the Supreme Court, and I would add in fact the State Attorney's building in Gajevo and we will redistribute everything because we have some space on Kennedy's 5 thousand square square square which is arranged and we will combine the rational space we have, allow everything to go to its own during. It was also about free legal aid. Free legal aid, we have a law that works, but not just that law on free legal aid. We have, in a way, free legal aid and criminal law on the principle of representation under official duty, so those defendants who can't afford a lawyer, they get by law, so, lawyers, defense attorneys by official duty, and those costs are borne by the budget then. Also, lawyers have in the Law on Attorneyship, have a certain obligation and have procedures where they also represent in certain cases pro bono and also, it works and I think that system is fine. As far as the law itself is concerned, there were words whether we laid down the criteria, whether the trial by the foreign lawyers should be taken or not. I don't think so, it's actually about including lawyers from other EU member states who are already lawyers, and now that we're putting them in the justice system, that wouldn't be good. Today we have a provision of the law that says that their knowledge is being checked under a special law, which is exactly the law. We thus make it easier and give power to the chamber to create a single program, but it is indeed a basic program, not to carry out a test as in the judiciary. There have also been words and related to the functioning of all our judicial bodies throughout Croatia, Zagreb has been particularly affected today, but we respect all of those municipalities and cities where there are municipal courts and we insist on this very electronic communication wherever possible because we have created conditions and every day we are much stronger in these communications, and this is precisely what is happening at this time that this gives us results and that it basically creates conditions that we can protect our rights and interests both as individuals and as a legal person, but also as a society to protect ourselves from those who just want to take advantage of this situation to profit. So here I am announcing these laws that will regulate these open issues of deadlines, and here we are in some way trying to make the judiciary and in these conditions that are difficult and that have affected every segment of society to function and to be of service to everyone. Once again, I would like to thank you for this very constructive debate that has given certain frameworks, not only regarding the amendments to this law but also for the full functioning of the entire judicial system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-27-0.u195377	I thank the esteemed Minister Bošnjakovic. We've got three replicas, the first distinguished representative of Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-27-0.u195378	Ministers, you've talked here about the recommendations you make to everyone in the judiciary by lawyers, judges the whole set, but the fact is that here they need strong measures, here they need clear and messages from people that just now people don't function based on decisions made by the National Civil Protection Headquarters can't function normally. You have an example that can happen, here's an example of headquarters in Sinj city headquarters where one of the infected are all isolated, so it can happen in certain judicial bodies courts where everyone will be isolated. That is why they need urgent measures. The suspension of the examples of moratorium on the ground, the suspension of proceedings, the appeal deadlines are in trouble because people will not all have the same application of their representatives' ability to do so need strong measures, not just recommendations. Your recommendations are good, they are desirable, but we need clear measures that will be on the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia. When will these measures be before us representatives? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-27-0.u195379	I thank the honourable representative. Answer, Honorable Minister Bosnjakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-27-0.u195380	I agree completely with you, I don't really have anything to replicate. And we are aware that at this point we are acting on the basis of recommendations, on the basis of awareness, the responsibilities of all those who respect these recommendations and we have announced that we will come with some special reference to these deadlines that we have talked about that we will come with a systematic solution that will not be recommended but will have stronger normative power.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-27-0.u195381	Thank you. The next replica, distinguished representative Zeljko Glasnovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-27-0.u195382	Dear Minister. In life the form always follows the function. We were able to set up night courts long ago for non-criminal crimes that work 24 hours a day. The judiciary must function whatever the situation is, I don't know why we are at the bottom of the EU on law enforcement, and everyone says we have good laws. How can lawyers function in a system where 10 times the law changes in one business cycle, it's unrealistic. And now it's time for a synergy for you to start in cooperation with UskoK and others to... bank accounts outside,... Oil and other malfeasances because slow justice is not justice. That can't wait. Keep those laws simple, people are confused. People call me every day in this mess of law enforcement, people don't know what's going on, how lawyers are going to work. We formally comply with the laws with the EU, and we do not implement them. Question, one example of the return of the seized property, we tap in place. It's just a smoke screen.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-27-0.u195383	Thank you, dear representative Glasnović. The reply of the Honorable Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-27-0.u195384	Thank you very much. On these remarks, we may say that we have courts that act as on-call, especially infraction courts that respond to those situations that come as sudden. And as for normative activities, any normative activity here that is ahead of you promotes the system, so this Law on Amendments to the Law on Attorneyship will allow liberalisation, will allow for simpler functioning and for our lawyers who, for example, see one of the important changes that will be able to have unlimited number of offices. Today it is reduced to one, and when they increase that number of offices, they will be closer to the citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-27-0.u195385	Thank you. The next replica is the distinguished representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-27-0.u195386	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you said something about preparations for the entire judicial activity at the time of the crisis. I wonder if you can tell us here as a minister that you will suggest that during the crisis, the process of enforcement against citizens is suspended, especially because citizens cannot achieve revenues or the economy is not working and cannot pay their bills and could happen that we have an expansion of the performance in this next period which would certainly not be good? And I'm curious, is that what you're in charge of, are you thinking about, or are you going to suggest something like that at one of the next government meetings?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-27-0.u195387	Thank you. Answer, Honorable Minister Bosnjakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-27-0.u195388	Thank you very much. In fact, today we do not have an expansion of the performance, as I said in this presentation in the final, the Croatian notary chamber has made a decision to take this exercise on the basis of a credible document, but these performances do not go out and these tasks are waiting for me to say better times. And she also went away a recommendation respected by municipal courts, that all those performances, and in particular the executions, which relate to the handover of property in possession, do not need to do so now, and it does not go out from the courts. We practically stopped these measures. However, it is a good thing that this is about recommendations because they are not all the same to you, there are conclusions where, for example, a minor child asks to be paid child support to have something to live on. In such situations, the execution should go. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-27-0.u195389	Thank you to Honoring Minister Bosnjakovic. We've exhausted the debate with this, so I'm closing this debate and we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-27-0.u195390	Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Attorneyship, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 884. The motion is Government, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: ‘1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Attorneyship and 2. Any comments and proposals will be sent to the applicant to consider them when establishing the final proposal of the Law." Who's against it? Who's restrained? And who's in? It's not 129 for sure because one part of the MP didn't raise his hand for any of this proposal, so please, now we're going to make an exception, who's for nothing to raise his hand. So, no, there weren't a few MPs here, so it wasn't safe to be 129, but, yeah, yeah. Mostly most of the votes were about 120 for, yeah. Now we move on to the agenda, rather I would just remind you that we agreed that on behalf of the club representatives speak for 10 minutes, individual debates last for 5 minutes, on behalf of the clubs two representatives can sit in the hall and if they will speak more then they will change so that there are no more than two representatives from each club present in the hall. We are now starting with the first point: - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local Elections, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 886 The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172 and 204. Rules of Procedure. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent manner. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings, and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. Minister, you're gonna have to wait 'cause I see your colleagues called, I guess, for a break. I've seen a fellow Bull, a colleague of the coat of arms, and you've already replicated, well, don't confuse me at least wait for him to leave. Here you go, Minister.
