ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-02-0.u5353	The next statement of view is on behalf of the Association of Representatives of the Home Secretary, the distinguished representative Milan Vrkljan.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-02-0.u5354	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues. In recent days, the Croatian information space has been silenced with information in health care. There have been several very difficult situations as you know this accident which at the personal level, which at the level of the system in Čakovec, but at the same time we have learned from our minister's statement that the Croatian health system in four months is in debt for 1.5 billion kuna of a new debt. I remind you that the past government in this same composition has left the Croatian health system in 10 billion kuna. Today, only when you look at large systems, large hospitals, KBCs and for example one hospital that was determined to be a covid center, KBC Dubrava sees that Dubrava spends 25 million kunas each month extra, creates a new additional debt over the limit it has received. And in the same hospital, a whole series of patients who were scheduled to go into surgery, check-ups, searches got messages and e-mails to delay their surgery, and at the same time when all these procedures were delayed in Dubrava, 60 patients with coronary virus were treated in four months, watch out for 60 patients, and it all cost the healthcare system an additional 25 million kuna every month. I call on the Minister and the Government of the Republic of Croatia to convene a thematic session of the Assembly and to clarify urgently what measures should be taken in health care to stop this because this trend in healthcare that is happening threatens the bankruptcy of the Republic of Croatia, and on the health system it has already bankrupted. There's a good story in this whole story. Two days ago, we learned that our family doctors were able to order patients through an e-route to a hospital inspection system. It is reportedly later that this system will also be used for searches that will be recovered as information. That's great information, that's great news. However, it's interesting one of my patients asked me yesterday how it says it, Doctor, I'm hardly a maligned patient and I don't want my neighbor to know about my illness, how you in the healthcare system guarantee me that my confidential personal data are completely secure and protected. So here I am now calling on the president of the HDZ Club to invite Minister Beros to speak to them personally, and here explain to all of us how he made a completely secure system in which the personal data of patients suffering from severe malignancies were protected. So if we really managed to do this, then the same club of HDZ calls its thematic session and accepts the proposal of the Homeland Movement of Miroslav Škora that our citizens, our voters at the level of all Croatia and the diaspora have the right to vote electronically, was one of the main thesis of you in HDZ that the data that could thus be collected would be potentially compromising for each voter or, in order to know, could know who he voted for. So it's interesting now that my Mara under Velebit has to be protected and has to be enabled or disabled to vote electronically, and someone who has a severe illness would be perfectly normal for his neighbor to go to the computer and print his data and there with another neighbor discuss how many days he has left. Here, I call you to balance, so if it's so safe to protect the ability of our voters to vote electronically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-02-0.u5518	Next statement of view on behalf of the IP, Smart and GLAS Club, the distinguished representative Anka Mrak-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-02-0.u5519	Thank you, well-respected Vice President HS, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. There's this curse that God gave you to live in interesting times, so I have to say that as far as global and local, we can't say that our times are uninteresting, even more. But in this free speech, I'm not going to talk about it, but I'm going to talk about something that didn't last very long, and that's when our prime minister returned from Brussels in a way that's been acting like malt not to bring 20 billion euros with him in one bag. Unfortunately, as it usually happens in Croatia, because of the ignorance and incompetence of the HDZ government threatens us to run out of part of these European billions for recovery because these billions that the prime minister boasted he did not bring with him, far from it. And we warned then that the high criteria and complex procedures needed to withdraw that money could be a major obstacle, especially since we depend on the knowledge and ability of the HDZ government, and that is not something that has never given us much confidence. It is a government that has no knowledge or interest in keeping up with the EU's Green Plan, and billions from the EU, the recovery mechanism and the resilience that Prime Minister Plenkovic had in his time praised for bringing them from Brussels, not only are they on a long stick but the way things stand is likely to stay there. So we should look much wider than this assembly and listen to what they say and listen to what they warn us about. The National Competitiveness Council has informed us that Croatia is the last in the EU to compete digitally and has also stressed that it is particularly poorly prepared for the future. So it's the same again. Not that we're around the average, not that we're somewhere in the middle, not that we're among the worse, but that we're always the last. At the same time, Prime Minister Plenkovic of the UN Biodiversity Summit boasted that Croatia was receiving 28% of energy from renewable sources. When this speech was being prepared, it would have been good if the data had been used. The data of Eurostat in Croatia could be used, which said it was 2004. Croatia reached 23.4% of the share of renewable energy sources, with it reaching 29% in 2015. So we ask the question, what happened? Are we going back, have we stagnated, have someone misprepared the prime minister? What's going on here? Because what I must stress is that this government of Prime Minister Plenkovic has not yet adopted and has not sent into the parliamentary procedure a low-carbon strategy that should be the basis for plans to use renewable energy sources. You see for yourself the agenda that we have, you see for yourself in the debate what it is, imagine if this one strategy, the low-carbon development strategy came to debate in the Parliament to discuss it, let's see what it is, but you can't take a step further without a strategy, so as long as it's gone, there's no step further. The European Commission has recently recommended to the Member States that recovery plans, which will finance European money, primarily include investment in renewable energy and digital technology sources, invite them to start delivering plans this month. When you hear that, it's clear that we're writing well. And now it's a question for the HDZ government, whether they care or have a lot more to do than come up with plans to invest in green technologies because that way, neither does European money in this crisis nor with green development do we count better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-02-0.u5520	Thank you. Now we're going as agreed to deliver the position of club representatives. The first statement of views on behalf of the Representatives' Club of the Independent Lists Bridge will be presented by the distinguished representative Marin Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-02-0.u5590	Honorable Vice President HS Mr. Sanader, Mr. Bukovac, distinguished MPs, distinguished MPs. I refer from this honorable place another appeal, return the children to the hall, allow the DIFs to teach in the lower classes of primary schools. The covida pandemic has caused a severe crisis in sports, and we as a state must change the paradigm of the entire system. Let this crisis be an opportunity for us to build a system that will allow sport to be available to everyone. The DIFs, the professors of kinesiology, must teach gym class in the lower classes of primary schools. I don't know if you know the distinguished MPs, the distinguished representatives that our kids are motorized and generally medically abandoned from 1st to 4th grade. We've never had more fractures, injuries in history than we've had in recent years. Why? The reasons for this need to be carried out professional debates, but what is necessary to enable professors of kinesiology to teach physical in lower classes. I don't know if you know that children give up sports every day, citizens of the Republic of Croatia on a daily basis give up every recreation. For example. Yesterday, a friend of mine testifies that before this pandemic, 30 of them were one fitness group, today they are trained by three. 10,000 amateur athletes, I'll repeat another 10,000 of our kids, our youth awaits the decision of Minister Fuchs, he's the one responsible, he's the one who can bring the children back to the hall with a feather move. I recently talked from this place about this problem and the Secretary of State himself for Sport Mr Tomislav Holding here was sitting here and he said yes, it is a big problem we urgently need to enable the children to return to the hall. What's going on? How is it possible that in our society, for example? In the Rijeka Ring children must train in school sports halls in Kastava is trained, but let's go south to Sibenik is allowed to train children in schools, in Rijeka is completely forbidden, how is that possible? How is it possible that in some cities it's allowed in others it's not? I don't understand. What are the epidemiological measures? Corona does not enter Sibenik, but enters Rijeka. This is where he comes in, he doesn't come in, what's going on? Who will be responsible for all the diseases that will bring us the seating lifestyle? Are we going to turn as a nation into some abandoned sitting nation? Well, we've always been adorned by beauty and sports power. Are we going to turn into a nation that doesn't care about health anymore, about sports? It should be clear, the share of sport and recreation in our country's budget is only 0.02%. We colleagues are at the bottom of the European scale, which is exactly 13.3 euros to you, and Hungary stands out 150 euros. And then I get a little hypocritical when we look up to the great successes of our athletes. Of course, Kostelici, the whole team of our top athletes, so they were successful I would say despite the system, and not the system, and we need to allow the children to train free in our halls, we need to hire the DIFs, professors of kinesiology, the system must allow them to have every child involved in sports. You know, I believe you know everyone who has kids how much parents spend on monthly finances? They didn't have the means. The covida pandemic has further destabilised the financial situation of many families and if you have two children, you pay 300 kuna karate, 400 kuna football school, so if the child has some musical talent and wants to play more music, then parents have to single out over a thousand kunas, and if they are lucky they have 5,000 kuna monthly receipts. It is not the society of righteousness, it is not the society of honesty that we want to function here in our Croatia. And the key question is, are we going to help our parents, help our children get back to gym sports, and what are we going to do as a state to change the paradigm of sports? Sports must be free for all those who want to play sports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-02-0.u5625	Next, the latest statement of view on behalf of the Green-Left bloc's Green-Left Club, the distinguished representative Tomislav Tomašević.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-02-0.u5626	I thank you for your words, Mr. Chairman. Today in free speech, I want to talk about free artists in the context of support for the coronary crisis. Today, I want to draw attention to a very complicated and materially restrictive situation for art production in Croatia, especially the most problematic for so-called. Free artists, i.e. professional workers in the field of culture and art, but who are not constantly employed in cultural institutions and institutions. Namely, the Register of the Croatian Free Artists Community lists 1,374 people who have such status, free artists, it is not a large number if we talk about some financial burden, it is otherwise theatre, music, film, art artists, but who are not constantly employed in theatres, concert halls, galleries, festival directorates, although they are currently producing most of the programs for all these institutions and in fact programs that all these institutions have. HZZ will remind continued support for the preservation of new jobs in activities affected by the coronary virus, but free artists have been excluded from this calculation and received support for only three months in March, April and May this year. After that, the support stopped as if everything had gone back to normal, and we know it wasn't true. In fact, the damage caused by culture due to the pandemic of the coronary virus is far more extensive and long-term and although the Ministry of Culture insists on the fact that the institutions of culture are reopened and working, I would like to remind them that they work in a very, very limited capacity. Namely, the audience coming to watch the programs, as you know, is limited by its number which then has a significant impact on the revenue from ticket sales, so the revenues to all cultural institutions have also fallen radically, and that means that many projects of these cultural institutions have been delayed or completely cancelled. This certainly has a major impact on free artists since cultural institutions, if they order new projects at all, do so extremely in a reduced scope and when they do so, are projects of a very uncertain outcome. In both economic and epidemiological terms, for example, in the case of someone from the creative team of the project being implemented, the cultural project is getting sick, the project is forced to suspend because of the epidemiological situation leaving artists without any income and basic protection. All this leads to professional free artists being thrown on their knees. I want to believe that both the Ministry of Culture and the Government of the Republic of Croatia thinks that they deserve at least the same amount of protection that their colleagues have in cultural institutions and institutions that I remind them of, although their actions are limited during this crisis, they still have the epidemiology, they regularly get paid and their existence is not threatened in this regard. And they also regularly continue to have different aid from many economic operators who have been constantly receiving this state aid since the start of the epidemic precisely because of the root crisis. Public tenders were called by the Ministry of Culture in September, however, for the existence of these free artists do not actually compensate for the radical loss of income they have faced since the beginning of the pandemic. This situation requires two solutions, a short and long-term solution. A short-term solution primarily rapid and adequate reaction by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, thus extending support for artists and cultural workers who, during the duration of the pandemic, have been compromised and existentially threatened, and on the other hand, demand and a long-term solution, and this is the work of a completely new adjective let's say a solution to protect professional free artists by modelling many other EU member states, which, just as such a solution, makes it impossible to destabilise this very sensitive culturally distinguished scene. And with such a solution, it will no longer be possible to strike free artists in the circumstances of some external new crisis. In conclusion, I just want to remind myself that culture with art and culture and art with education and science is the foundation of every society and social development and that we really cannot allow it to always be in the last place, and hence free artists to be in the last place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-02-0.u5627	Here, we've exhausted the club stand. We will continue the session on Wednesday, 7 October at 9:30 p.m. by taking the club's position. Have a nice weekend. Session interrupted at 12.15 hours. The next statement is on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, a respected representative of Radoje Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-02-0.u5720	Dear Vice-President of the Assembly, colleagues and fellow MPs today, I would like to talk here in the Croatian Parliament about the injury of Croats in BiH, or about the systematic play of the Washington and Dayton Agreement to the harm of Croats who wish to take away the right to co-determination in BiH. I'd like to talk today in a conference about years of labeling lies, slandering an entire nation. I would like to talk here today about a systematic attempt to impose collective guilt on a whole nation in BiH. I would like to talk, in fact, about a long-standing attempt to defile our birthplace, to degrade BiH to permanently abandon it. Of course, I won't talk about it all because of the time I have, and even more because of what I know, no matter how I say it myself, those who do it won't hear it, and even if they hear it, they won't understand it, and it'll be just a cause for a new attack of labels. I will show here today only in one example how the amendments to the Federation's constitution want to achieve all of this, and about the functioning of the home of the peoples of the Federation as one of the most important institutions guaranteeing the equality of the people. The Washington agreement, adopted in Washington, adopted in the constitutional assembly, set out that clubs of the people, Croats and Bosniaks number 30 members to make equal decisions in the House of Peoples of the Federal Parliament. This provision has been amended and a provision has been adopted to reduce the number of envoys to 17. Envoys to the House of Peoples are selected proportionally, as much as from the county congregations, as the people live in the county. This amendment is also set out in each county to elect one envoy to the House of Peoples, to the Club of Peoples. What does this practically mean is an example of Posavina and Gorazda. Namely, in Gorazd, he lived in '91, according to the census. 81 Croats, and in Savina, close to 45,000. This means practically that one vote from the Croatians from Gorazd is worth 521 votes from the Croats in Posavina. Of course, 81 Croats from Gorazd cannot elect their envoy to the House of Peoples, which requires several thousand votes. So the Bosniaks, with several thousand votes from Gorazd, elect a Croatian envoy to the House of Peoples, who doesn't have to be a Croat, who only conveniently can plead as a Croat, and that happens. Why does this matter? Because this change allows Bosniaks to choose more than 1/3 of Croatian people's clubs in their counties. And why it's important to speak the following information. Until then, the electoral constitution set out that most clubs were proposed by the president and vice president of the Federation. These amendments allow 1/3 to propose a president and vice-president of the Federation. This practically means that 1/3 of the envoys elected by the Bosniaks are proposing the president and vice president of the Federation, confirmed by most Bosniaks in the House of Representatives, and then such a president and vice president of the Federation proposes to the government that reaffirms the House of Representatives. This practically means that without any Croatian vote can be elected president and vice president of the Federation,... the federal parliament and the Federation government. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] What is good is that the Constitutional Court has ruled that this choice of envoys is not legal, that it is not constitutional. But what is very dangerous, which Bosniak and political parties do not want to implement this decision. What is even more dangerous is that in public space between Bosniak and political parties, there is no longer a right to the equality of the people of BiH, but is increasingly talking about the need for the right of the majority to determine what is good for the minority. So here I am using this opportunity to welcome here the inclusion of the leadership of the Republic of Croatia, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, President Milanovic, to help us solve this problem. I use this opportunity to thank them on behalf of the Croats from BiH, so they supported us to at least try to get back everything we've been taken away from us by changes, to try to preserve equality. I am taking the opportunity to thank them on behalf of the whole of BiH, all of its citizens because I am convinced that only BiH as a state is governed by three equal constituent nations along with others can be stable, successful and modern, and this is what BiH is convinced of for the purposes of all its citizens, it is, in the interest of both the Republic of Croatia and the whole of our region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-02-0.u5790	The next statement is on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, the distinguished representative Andreja Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-02-0.u5791	Dear Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues today I will talk about another problem faced by healthcare professionals specifically by doctors in the Republic of Croatia. It is a matter of judicial power in favour of the doctor for inadequately calculating overtime. And I immediately ask, how and when will hospitals pay off the verdicts to doctors who have received litigation? Why don't the directors of the health care institution respect and treat the judicial judgments of the law? On 9.12.2019, the Supreme Court adopted its legal position on this for the benefit of the doctor. Following this comes the first-degree court rulings brought by legal services in many hospitals fully aware that they will lose the dispute in the second-degree judgment. It's a clear verdict of the Supreme Court. In this way, debts on the basis of further judicial and legal costs and interest that are growing increasingly are unnecessarily accumulated. Who's responsible for this, who ordered it? It should be noted that upon receipt of the power of judgment, the obligation to pay is prescribed within 8 days of the exercise of power. In order to collect debts awarded by powerful verdicts with this kind of management, doctors will be forced to seek the conduct of institutions in which they work and thus likely to continue problems in regular business. I recall that the sad period was from 1.12.2013 to 1.12.2018. For the period from 1.12.2018 to 1.4.2020, when the redefinition of overtime was made, the second period continued to be miscalculated. The part has not yet been sued, and no ministry has contacted any of the medical associations to agree on the return of that part of the debt. All of these have been given written warning by the ministers of work, finance, health care and prime ministers on several occasions. According to the statement by the President of the Medical Union of the Republic of Croatia, the latest letter was sent on 7 September of this year to all of them. This letter also states a violation of labour rights during work under the terms of the pandemic. For example, forced vacations without any solution to the annual vacation, the suspension of a doctor at his salary during work in the reserve during the spring wave of the pandemic and the non-payment of all overtimes carried out in accordance with the legal provisions and instructions of the Minister of Health. Problem of inability to use annual holidays from 2019 for epidemiologists, infectologists etc. These days, we can see from the media the allegations of Minister Beros that negotiations with the Ministry of Finance are just in progress on how hospitals will pay for it. However, we believe that this really must be actively involved by the state because it will be additionally burdened to the hospital limits of the HZZO in most health institutions. And in the end, it's outrageous that for six years, nothing has been done to solve the problem of the doctor's representativeness. This government did not resolve this in the previous term, so we wonder whether it will finally allow healthcare professionals and the law to negotiate for their rights and working conditions themselves, and not for them other health professions. Problems accumulate, disputes are not resolved, and doctors are more and more unsatisfactory every day. Both doctors and nurses are missing in the Republic of Croatia. In response to my question on the current morning, Minister Beroš said he would be aware that doctors would be missing from the tender for more than 5,000 doctors in the coming period. So obviously he's missing us. Who will report to these competitions, who of young people is even motivated to stay in Croatia under these conditions? The problems we warn about should be addressed urgently. And the doctor's patience comes to an end once. It's not enough just patting our shoulders and clapping. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-02-0.u5792	Thank you. The following statement of view on behalf of the National Minority Representatives Club, the distinguished representative Veljko Kajtazi.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-02-0.u5816	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected colleagues and colleagues this week on September 27th, again, the conflict of our two friendly countries Azerbaijan and Armenia was widely activated. The subject is close to me. Since I was an active member of the Croatian Azerbaijani International Parliamentary Friendship Group in the past term and I visited Baka in late 2018 and participated in the International Humanitarian Forum under the auspices of President Ilham Aliyev. From this country, we have signed a series of friendly cooperation agreements which would set out the Zagreb Declaration signed with Azerbaijan in 2013 that we agreed to expand and strengthen our cooperation, and would particularly highlight point 3 of that agreement, which highlights the importance of a peaceful resolution of the conflict between Armenia and Azerbaijan in Gorski Karabah in line with the relevant UN Security Council resolutions and the three principles of the OSCE summit in Lisbon on the basis of respect for sovereignty, territorial integrity and integrity of state borders. I believe that, in this context, as a friendly country, we must take a clear position by caring for friendly relations and common interests from both countries and without question respecting the principle of sovereignty, territorial integrity, non-violence of state borders from Azerbaijan in accordance with the relevant Security Council resolutions 822, 853, 874 and 884. I would like to say to this occasion that I am greatly sorry that the conflict has escalated and that the issue of co-existence and borders in 2020 is being resolved by a conflict which last days refers to 10 unnecessary civilian victims, which infrequently violates the Geneva Convention. Current reports confirm that the target of attacks in the cities of Terter, Deskesan, Fizuli and Naftalan are many homes of civilians, civil infrastructure, hospitals and administrations of innocent buildings. In Naphthalan, a total of five family members died. The peaceful resolution of all those open to Azerbaijan and Armenia must not have an alternative, and the fact that in Gorna Karabah, the international recognition of Azerbaijan's territory must not be caused by the conflict over the fact that the vast majority of its population are ethnic Armenians. As a country that has not long ago experienced the horrors of war, but also a country which, in addition to great military experience, has also had a significant experience in peaceful reintegration and peaceful settlement of territorial problems, I believe that we must not remain indifferent and refer to this conflict only to the fleets of peace and respect for certain documents. It must not be indifferent to civilian deaths in a conflict that will certainly not be resolved by violence and we must focus on further strengthening our cooperation and at European level which is defined in the context of the Eastern Partnership in which our country and Prime Minister Plenkovic himself has actively participated several times. In this context, it should be said that at this point, we must also highlight the main objective of the Eastern Partnership, which is to strengthen the political and economic integration of the six Eastern European and South-Kaki countries of the EU partners Armenia, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Georgia, Moldova and Ukraine. I hope that this conflict will end as soon as possible and that we will continue to work together to strengthen common relations, relations with the EU, but also to strengthen democratic processes and European values within their societies. This involves, of course, the absence of any violence or conflict. As a member of the Parliamentary Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, and a representative of 12 national minorities, including the Russian, Ukrainian and Turkish national minorities, and in the context of the international agreements that we have signed and the EU's interest, which we are part of, I call on all colleagues and colleagues and the Government of the Republic of Croatia to take a clear view that the peaceful way of resolving this conflict is the only way and that our friends in Eastern Europe and the South-Qaqua region should not reach for arms in solving this conflict. It also reiterates that the territorial integrity of the Republic of Azerbaijan that we recognise must be respected that the Geneva Convention It must not violate you that violence and the loss of civilians must stop immediately. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-02-0.u8093	The first item of the agenda today is: - Amendment of the statutes of the Croatian News Agency - consenting Director of the Reporting News Agency on the basis of Article. 21. The law on Croatia reports to the news agency. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Information and Information and Media. The government delivered an opinion. She's with us. Branko Gabriel Vojvodić, director of the Croatian News Agency, will give us an introductory explanation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-02-0.u8094	Honorable MPs, respected MPs, Vice President of the Parliament, good morning, I want everyone. I am here today to ask the Parliament to accept amendments to the statutes of the Croatian News Agency, HINA, before I would say just a few introductory words about HINA that we are not exactly going to talk about the statute. So HINA was founded in the '90s, exactly 30 years ago and functioning in accordance with the HINA Act. We obtain income from a contract with a founder of 65% of total income and based on a contract with subscribers or on the market, mainly the media market, within 35%. The annual contract with the founder, which is in our case the Ministry of Culture and Media, is concluded each year under the Law on HINA and the Agreement establishing the basis for the conclusion of a contract for the purchase of the right to use information services of HINA between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Public Institute of HINA. HINA is making funds based on this contract which has its own information services which you probably know because I assume you all use them, gives them to Croatian state institutions, educational and scientific institutions, institutions in culture, non-profit associations, defenders' associations, Croatian media in diaspora, etc. These other 35%, I'm talking to you, we're getting on the market by selling our services to media and non-media users. What we are here for today is a change of statutes because HINA has significantly raised the quality, speed and width of its service in the past few years, and from 2014 until today, slowly from a news agency, has changed to a multimedia agency modeling other European agencies, and we are pleased to say we have done much faster than the agencies in the region and somewhere on average like other agencies in Europe. We know that because he had very close cooperation through our roof association with all European agencies. Today, we can say that HINA has reached an almost maximum number of users in view of, of course, and unfortunately of the restrictions imposed in this respect by a relatively small media market and a beautiful language, but there are not many speakers. Today, at affordable prices, we offer everyone in the Republic of Croatia a significantly improved show, news from the world, photo, audio and video services, infographics, announcement service and we are present on all these modern social media platforms, while fully fulfilling our role as a public service and the founder's intention to encourage pluralism in the Republic of Croatia as a national agency. In recent years we have also invested significant resources in the technological development of the agency, and today we can say that we are solidly technically covered and able to monitor all the challenges of the digital market and the needs of our customers. One of the best evidence of this was impeccable, in my court, the functioning of HINA during the Covid crisis and the earthquake that hit our capital. We broadcast an average of 230 news daily, more than 2 hundreds of photos, 10 audio contributions, several videos, we have more than 150 commercial subscribers, of which the largest number of media and approximately, equally so many subscribers are based on a joint subscription contract with the Ministry of Culture and Media. In order to expand its offer and raise the quality of services, and therefore, we hope to increase revenue, as well as pairing with competing photo agencies, I am talking about private photo agencies, HINA has acquired an unmanned industrial aircraft, educated most of its photojournalists for recording and managing that aircraft and registered as an operator at the Croatian Civil Aviation Agency. In the meantime, we have also asked to become part of the new regulation on air recording, which has accepted the competent Ministry of Defence, and since 3 July this year HINA has been included in this Regulation for targeted air recording for the purposes of reporting on all events that can be carried out exclusively by television companies with national concessions and now HINA. What remains to be done is that HINA's drone could take off, and since HINA cannot register additional activity on its own as a commercial company, and air recording is considered to be a special activity, it is considered to amend the HINA Statute, and what only HS can do, and that is why we are proposing it today. It's worth saying that there's a lot of demand for air footage today, they're an inescapable part of television, video and film industry, and the number of companies doing this is very limited. So HINA would shoot drones, not only enrich its offer, but, existing users, but also be able to offer air footage by order. That is why we propose to the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia to accept the amendment of the HINA Statute and so on. 10 HINA Statutes in the section in which the activities of HINA are listed add the activity of ‘air recording’. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-02-0.u8095	It's over. You can go to the scene because there were no replicas. Does the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? I think so. - Mrs. Crescent. Natalija Martincevic, chairman of the Committee on Information, Information and Media, just a moment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-02-0.u8096	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, the esteemed director. We discussed this item yesterday at a meeting of the Committee on Information, Information and Media and I would like to inform you that of the 13 members of the Committee, 12 supported this proposed amendment of the Statute, while it was, therefore, one abstention. As you had the opportunity to hear from the principal, the aim of this amendment of the statutes is to provide better and better quality information and air recording to a drone, which today is no longer a novelty in the media market but is a standard and it is important that by voting for this change of statutes and here, so in the Assembly we allow the purchase of so-called. A drone. I would like to point out that several board members are in session yesterday, and, as I fully support, warn that such a device will certainly not be enough. One of my goals and as chairman of the board, but also as representatives will be equal treatment of all regions in all areas, though, here when we talk about the media, therefore, equal treatment of all regions in the media. The remarks we have on this would mainly refer to HRT, but HINA is extremely important here and we must be careful that even when reporting, even with these, thus supplementing the quality of reporting related to drones, news does not revolve around Zagreb or around larger cities. That is why I should certainly support the initiative and ask HINA to think in this regard that in due course more of these aircraft are obtained to ensure that all Croatian regions are represented equally in the media. In part, the board's session discussed the work and business of HINA, and I must say here that most members, or all the members who made the call, did not all argue that they had a positive view of HINA's work and business, but there were several constructive suggestions and legitimate remarks. One of the legitimate remarks was the fact that the remuneration of employees is not in line with the incomes of other institutions, as well as the market and economy itself. Since 2008, when their incomes have been reduced they have not changed, it is certainly not stimulating for employees, who are all mostly VSS in the HINA itself, and it is also not good for the arrival and attraction of new quality personnel. It is also important to say, the committee also said that the statutes of the agency have not changed since 2001, and such a statute certainly cannot move forward with the times and needs of a modern media. And the very fact that the Parliament must decide to purchase a drone speaks enough about how HINA cannot have rapid, appropriate reactions that are particularly important and necessary in the media market today. So these are just some of the thoughts that we will, of course, discuss when we will discuss the report on HINA's work, which I believe will soon be on the agenda. And just briefly, I think it is important to mention the representatives, but the Croatian public is aware of the fact that HINA showed precisely at the time of the crisis caused by the pandemic of the virus and the earthquake in Zagreb, which significantly damaged the HINA building itself, that the serious system and the serious public service that was providing without major problems to the public, without greater problems for us to be aware, so we did not see if the problems and existed in their work and reporting. So they provided accurate and timely information and, of course, free of charge, which is extremely important in times of emergency. So, the board supports the amendment to this statute and I ask the representatives to accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-02-0.u8097	Thank you, too. Does the government's representative want to give an additional explanation? No, I don't. Thank you. I'm opening a debate. The first is on the daily work of Mr. Miro Bulj, who will give a position on this law by the Representatives' Club of Independent Lists. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-02-0.u8098	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues. Dear principal, representative of the Ministry of Culture, respected citizens who follow in front of small screens. I would say here that by reading a little legal, i.e. The statute of a small change that Most, I did not believe several times, read that it would vote and debate in the HINA Assembly on the National Reporting Agency that it would discuss in the Assembly. Today every private photo club or private in the house has a drone, and we will discuss one drone that will be here in Zagreb. I would also point out that the Republic of Croatia is not only Zagreb and its surroundings. I believe that your capacities and your people on the ground can do this job and report with new technological opportunities from these areas outside of Zagreb much better and much more quality compared to the technological progress we have. As I said this change refers in essence, you said in your presentation what HINA, HINA was after Tanjug a new Croatian public service in creating a modern Croatian state that played a major role not only in covid because the covid was obviously the only crisis behind us, which is in our consciousness. However, there have been many major crises, mainly in the creation of an independent Republic of Croatia, so the role of public service must be noted, not just to mention the covid, who is now a covid all in the world, as if Capak, Beroš and all around it were the only ones in the world. HINA has a much greater importance for me and a historical role in the Republic of Croatia, mainly in establishing if it was really not there at the time, there was a Belgrade news agency that naturally sent information to this difficult time i.e. at the time of the formation of the Republic of Croatia as it suited it so that it was created in the difficult moments of the creation of the Republic of Croatia. I would also once again ask our fellow representatives that HINA, which is connected to the number of other agencies of the same character in Europe and beyond, that we are today discussing whether to buy a drone. This could have been given in the report, and that's why I accept these amendments to the statutes, but we're bringing ourselves so much space to me with absolute things. I would prefer to talk here if we had talked when HINA came about people doing their job honorably, how many you have on the ground, how sure they are, whether they are on a contract or in permanent working relations, and mostly I repeat out of Zagreb because we must once accept that it is not only Croatia Zagreb. We have problems in two-thirds of Croatia, we currently have here in my area 25 schools that have disappeared, in the Imot area too, in Slavonia literally delete villages and that should be reported. Mostly this vault is on local portals, something in TV attachments, something very small or national television as much as it can carry on its specific channels, but very few actual facts. Mostly we focus on Zagreb, let's just say we focus on who put the record in the club Slovensko 9 and, of course, we don't write about ministers anymore, we don't mention that Butkovic played on the map that he has a money counter. Well, I don't suppose it's a ticket counter, the money counter counts, as far as I know, I don't know if it's a flyer or a cherry, but no one mentions the prime minister and his role anymore, it's mostly about who's telling who's what, who's the nicknamer, who's choban, who's who, and there's no mention of focus where the money is. I'm just saying this because information agencies like HINA and public services have to hit the essence and the core, and not those who are going to turn away the key to the story with some less important and side effects I've noticed in the last few days because I don't see any more Prime Ministers, nor the Minister of Environmental Threatening and Threatening the economy of Coric, I don't see them at all, they don't even remember. Most of the names are called funerals, funerals of everything they do for money, and they don't mention these ministers, I think the representatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the distinguished principals were at the club who were dealing money. And that money is divided, it will ever return that money, so just like this, it can be manipulatively directed at our colleagues from the Parliament and the President of the Republic, and forget about the government and the ministers, in fact, who have the money and who set the criteria. And once again, I believe that drones are needed, that the Croatian news agency must have this technological progress, I believe that you have quality and capable people, I am mainly repeating and out of Zagreb, because I see no reason not to have the same report from Slavonia, Dalmatia, from Istria, it is irrelevant from which area and I believe that we are going to work on it, and the drones are something that is quite normal today. Well, people are shooting privately today with drones and much smaller privates and individuals. Here, once again these changes encouraged me to tell our colleagues how much they're under the political stalemate, I'm not talking, but politically, I mean you just have to get a majority here to get that drone. Today, in order for HINA to get a drone, we have to have a majority, one drone, one you said, not two, can I at least 5, one for Slavonia, Osijek, one for, here I am now giving the amendment one for Split, and not another one for Split, now we will have 6 days here, the amendment can buy HINA for Split one drone, I think I don't even think this is a banalizing, here I suggest right now that one Rijeka area, Osijek, Varazdinian, one means Split, Dubrovnik, Zadar, and I think we're discussing here a drone in the Croatian capital, the National Reporting Agency. Do you get the absurd? No, it's so prescribed, it's not up to you, so I'm not saying that this is up to you or your employees, but the fact is that the political puck is in your hands that you have to literally sow a decision with all your work and effort, with all your 230 daily information that you give to the public, your cooperation with other news agencies, other countries, but the fact that HINA is not only Zagreb, or we will pass through the Zagreb news agency. So we have to make that decision, because this is how it's been decided that we're going to discuss a drone, which tomorrow, if I can buy a camera, if I can buy a cell phone, if you have the right to a cell phone, the tributary, literally bananad, but the fact that this act speaks in which we absurdly, absurdly live, in absurdity. How much politics wants to hold public services under, and we won't talk about HRT because it's a topic for us. So here's how much, here's how much I've suggested that when we're talking about this, at least for now we buy 5 to 10 here, so let the colleagues agree, 5 to 10 drones as long as it takes, it would be good for you to come out and say how long it would take for the drones to work in the entire region of the Republic of Croatia, not for HINA to be just a Zagreb news agency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-02-0.u8099	Thank you, too. As you've seen, I've let you speak to the end, we're talking about changing the statutes, unfortunately the principal has to submit it to the assembly because it says so, according to the law, that the change of statutes requires parliamentary approval. I agree with you that one so small thing shouldn't even come to the council, maybe even on the board, but it can't make us talk, that we're getting out of the picture because you did it, because you did it. That's what I'm saying you did and don't give me, okay, okay, here you go. An article?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-02-0.u8100	I will look back on Article 238, although you have injured many other articles. I would ask you every morning when I enter the Assembly to write to me exactly what I'm going to say from A to Z, if you think it's a assembly and a parliamentary representative then it's really us, I've stuck to an absolute subject and I've even said a few examples I've even praised the work of HINE but politics is above all public institutions so unfortunately they have to ask this amendment of the statutes on one A drone, let the public know, about a drone that privates have. [[Intruder: Thank you very much, time.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-02-0.u8101	Time, and this one I have for you is next. It is on the agenda to change the HINE statutes, not the quality of HINE That's why you didn't stick to the subject under Article 238, so you get a warning. [[That's what I was talking about.]] Let's move on, Mrs. Dark, Anka Dark Taritash, Club of Representatives of the IP, Smart and Glass, forgive me, but I don't see this one without glasses, just far away.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-02-0.u8102	Thank you very much. No, I don't understand it all with glasses and no glasses, Vice President. Nice greeting to all, the esteemed Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed director, the respected gentleman from the Ministry of Culture, colleagues and colleagues, the Party's Club of Representatives with the name and last name, Smart and GLAS will support the proposed amendments to the HINE Statute. HINE Statute, whether one word is changed, 22 words must come to the meeting of the assembly and so on. The Law of Hina states that Hina can, not only get a drone, but that much more importantly, she has met all the conditions that this drone of the sea, can and must be managed. In this statute, it doesn't say whether Hina will make one drone or 100 drones. They'll get exactly what they need for their work. In order to be perfectly clear in the statute, it says that, therefore, the statute is complemented by this, and the Hine decision depending on the financial possibilities will be the number of drones, so maybe you can get 100 drones if you can, so that's what needs to be made clear and that's what this is about. But what is important, then, is that the Statute of Hine introduces air recording as one of the activities that Hina is involved in. In order for Hina's team to be able to deal with, not only should the statutes be changed, but everything that the director said had to be done should be done, if we had listened carefully, she had to get the proper certificates, she had to meet the appropriate conditions. You can't get a drone and start playing and shooting from the air, especially it's very sensitive, regardless of what we're members of the EU, you know that we have a border with some other countries, with third countries. When you're recording about the border, it can always cause some other conflicts, and that's why it's good that all the conditions are met, and it's good that when it's done before HS, it's just like that. We can change the laws, we can change everything, but at this point that's the way it is. What you... It is not disputed, which is that the agency should and must move forward with time and technology development. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] What the letter N stands for in the name of Hina means is "novel". That means that she's from, what we've all witnessed, from a classic newspaper turned into a multimedia agency. Expanding the range of services and using new technologies are the only way to survive on this demanding media market. Especially given that Hina has been doing business and is doing positive business in recent years with a steady growth in market revenues. As important as it is to move forward with technology, I don't think we should spend too many words, we've seen for ourselves in this situation, which is interesting for us in 2020. In the beginning, we seemed to have these two 20.20 figures conveniently, that it would be one handsome year, and now we're already wondering who was waiting here in 2020 compared to everything that's happened to us. Well, among other things, it was really hard to talk about, not talk about the pandemic of the virus. And it was in this pandemic that we saw how much our news agency was exactly the key tool that enabled how normal the functioning of the conditions that turned upside down literally overnight. Even though we have been really serving for decades and are surrounded by computers and digital technology and all possible variations on the line of communication work, only the crown literally threw us all into this new, almost scientific, fantastic world, Zoom, WhatsApp, Viber, on the line of meetings, work from home and all that suddenly became "new normal". It was also the case with Hina, especially because she, I must stress it every time, as all of us in Zagreb and the surrounding area have suffered the consequences of the earthquake in which the Hina building in the centre of Zagreb is badly damaged and I think it is mostly unusable today. And what, and there it has proved to be, in fact, how important restructuring is, but it is important to say that what is now usable, Hina renewed her own resources and that after she was taken over in huge debt, and all of these good results were carried out by the current Hina administration. Positive business and growing share of clients on the market, what in these difficult times kept them stable above water. Otherwise let me, since I mentioned the Hina building that was damaged by the earthquake, a little depression where I really mentioned the earthquake in Zagreb, it's been six and a half months since it's been done around the city, except for what people and organisations and companies have done, as well as Hina itself, and instead of the oblivion walls, it's still staring at the huge holes and warnings that have been put on the first day after the earthquakes that have already crashed, and they've already faded completely. We discuss clubs here and we need to discuss and discuss well. But we have to mention another club of two politicians who failed to organise themselves after six and a half months, failed to make one brick in the City of Zagreb move in that one whole restoration, which is the club Andreja Plenkovic and Mr Milan Bandic, but I will return to Hina. I'll be back on lockdown and crown. [[/Intruder: Dark-Taritash, let's stick to the statutes, please.]] Absolutely. They have done theirs, many of the Hina's projects, clients, especially these small local portals have fallen into difficulty, making Hina have to adjust to the new bill and come out to meet her colleagues. [[Intruder: Please]] At the same time, the total number of news has increased and there is one interesting data, and that is that the number of news on HINA's free health portal has increased even by 685%. Since we can't really talk today without talking about the subject of the crown, you've seen that the breaking news on all the portals is that the man who was one of the most, the most talked about how much the crown was fiction, he liked it himself, and that's Mr Trump, who is also, must be in self-insulation. So, the crown is present, the crown is something that is and should be talked about and it should be talked about when we talk about Hina for the simple reason where we have all been, as with the appearance of the crown, rapidly increasing the number of false, hard-checked news and information. And that's a situation where it shows how much public service like HINA is important. He's an important correction, and that's the point where we have at least the kind of control that doesn't spread lies and panic. After all, here in the Parliament, really none of us, nor politicians, nor journalists, and I trust the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, should explain how important HINA is for our information as well as for the spread of news from Croatia around the world, and all of whose jobs are directly daily related to the dissemination of information, I also know that the speed and quality of the work done by journalists, photographers and other HINA employees are something we can rely on. Not once, I'm sure that every one of you like me, after the press that was, asked that he was a journalist of HINA because if he was, then we know that the news will be broadcast. If it wasn't, we know it was a different press. In the conditions of this small and poor media market and in a language that has very limited reach, as also mentioned in the opening presentation, it is important that HINA enters all possible niches that could provide it with at least the current growth of revenues on the market, therefore from those commercial users. That's why we need to get a drone, how many drones they're going to get, it's going to depend on financial opportunities, but what's important now is that the people who are going to manage drones are educated, that all the formal needs for their work are done, and that's the only one left, and that's this change of statute that we're changing in order to actually become part of HINA's work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-02-0.u8103	Thank you, too. I remind you once again which is the point of the agenda, one small item on the agenda of a small change in the statutes. Mr. William Matula, Green-Left Block Representatives Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-02-0.u8104	Thank you, Vice President. Ma'am. Director, Mr. Ministry representative, colleagues and colleagues. It's really a very narrow topic today and it actually reads because that supplement in the statute actually reads is adding activity, meaning only the following, air recording. And now if we're going to stick really very tightly to it, actually, yes, we won't even have something to say too much, but yesterday there was a committee where we're not so lucky to keep the subject this tight, it was a pleasure because this reason to say something about the national news agency that was before that was the theme of this House, I had the opportunity to watch it, when they were there but really difficult and big problems. Now, at this point, I'm going back to this tight topic. The narrow theme among other things speaks and the following is what I know about the information because I asked around, because we know people, so that's people, more than 120 journalists and photographers are in these or over 123 or how busy they are. And we know that people have been looking at the board and the principal, it's been asked before, that question, not now the question that we're dealing with by law, but then the other permits that came to the point that now it's just another obstacle to this tiny change in the statute that we can influence, I'm not going to say too much about what might have been before, but the truth is that we're slow, but imagine just the fact that we had HINA, which is really, at this moment, a public institution, really credible information, which really conveys all of our other newspapers especially like all of our services commercial, news services that still live on something else, mostly more and more than just a faca of news, and then what they first pass on to have at least some point of firmer and that's HINA. So she's really impartial and imagine that we had this drone, that HINA had this drone, the morning that this terrible earthquake happened and that HINA was because the difference is of course, Mrs. The director explained to us yesterday that they certainly have and are alone with their resources to buy drones, they returned nine million kunas from that huge debt that they have and now they have 3 million and something that I know are now in plus, but it is also about preparing these experts who are not only the drone operators at the same time, which seems to be a small child today, but it is here that these are not ordinary cameras, but they must be professional cameras that will send a picture that when they exchange it especially with external agencies and that would be possible for us to have this morning, and I am convinced that what the Prime Minister is praising and we understand that there is a safe and compassionate Europe for what happened to us that morning, however, I am convinced that HINA could carry this horror throughout the world, and that this would be much clearer and more credible with these details and with the credibility that HINA, and in this community agency in Europe, I am confident that we would have been able to help with this budget. So that's the reason. The agency, as we learned yesterday, has the money to get the drones themselves, but here's one of the ones we've been announced is expected to be next in Split, which means it's going to go through the cities, but very important to have a really trained professional who is the same, who knows all these rules and regulations how not to do any damage, not to go in any wrong direction or power lines etc. What the esteemed representative Mrak Taritash said, of course not to go into space and not to record perhaps parts of another country or some neighbouring country which should not either, but also to make it quality-scheduled, is all that going with these professional requirements. Now, I want nothing but congratulations on what you've done in these last six years, which has led to you now finally adding this service. And I end up with this speech that it is an example of a public institution with journalists in 33 or how many correspondence throughout Croatia, with very small salaries. These are all highly educated people, the average salary is 7,400 kuna, that these are journalists and agencies who are in this forest of growing fakenews and various polarised and ideologically truly dedicated media, not to say the same to you, those minor private media that have turned from the ruling media today because they have to turn it into the newsletters of the Government or the ruling party. We understand and it's on the market, you're obviously the best bidder, I understand that, but what I'm sad about is that HRT for a billion and 300 million kunas that we've all given for subscription is in an informative sense for years so bad a service, I'd say almost a embarrassing service and that we don't find a way to fix it. So in this sense, what we're giving about 20 million kunas for HINA, of which they pay the VAT of course, and they're left with 16 million and several hundred thousand kunas. I would warn, the truth is not in this topic, but it is indicative that it matches exactly the same number that the Zagreb Holding gives for the rental of those cars, among other senseless expensive cars. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-02-0.u8105	So now I repeat the amendment of the HINA Statutes once again, Mr Goran Ivanovic will speak in front of the HDZ Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-02-0.u8106	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, Madam Director, distinguished MPs and MPs. Here's one item on the agenda that when you read it like this looks quite harmless in terms of debate and debate opening, but when you get a little bit into the scale of things then you see that there's something to discuss and that this might be a good opportunity to talk about some things that are related to HINA as well. I knew little about all this as a member of the board, so I had the opportunity to hear from the principal a little bit that she even knew me the way HINA works, which is what it means for HINA to have this part in its statute when it comes to air recording. Yesterday there was a very high-quality meeting of the Media, Information and Information Committee where all the board members agreed that it was good. HINA is a national news agency and if we take with HRT the only media in the Republic of Croatia whose work is regulated by a special law. This is very important for the highlighted and on the board we made a very quick decision that, of course, today's air recording is the standard we need to have, it's specially regulated by special laws, it needs to be trained by people. I'd like to say maybe one thing, if it weren't for the amount, we're only bringing here a change that needs to be entered in the Trade Court that HINA has the right to film from the air. Whether it will have one, two, three or five aircraft I don't think it's the subject of debate, it will, of course, be decided by the board and director, but in any case something that will enrich the media space in our Republic. So I won't take up too much of your time. Problems or this change is very simple, there will come a time when we will discuss the work of HINA and then we will have opportunities to discuss it as well as the report of the Croatian HRT for 2019. There have been nice discussions yesterday on the board, that is, when we enter into the measure of things, when we want to discuss really what the subject really is, what is the essence of this story and I think that in this time ahead of us we will, of course, have an opportunity to discuss it. Perhaps only one here, the recession that I want to stress here, if we take the historical view of these 30 years HINA exists, has had all kinds of problems, today HINA is doing well with these 20 million kunas as much as it gets from the Ministry of Culture, of course, to return the part through the VAT back to the budget, when we know that no serious news house in the Republic of Croatia, and even beyond can be practically without the HINA platform and serve the HINA platforms for what's going on in the Republic of Croatia and let's be honest, of course, HINA as such is the promoter of Croatia in the world, when it's not just news that they're related to politics, but are related to a lot of broader topics. So here, along with what Mr. Matula pointed out, of course, the earthquake has also done great damage when it comes to the HINA building, people have taken care of these things very quickly, think about maybe these things, 123 are employees of HINA, mostly highly educated persons, whether they are adequate incomes and wages and that is part of, perhaps the subject that will be part of the debate when we discuss HINA as an institution, but here, I want this supplement of the Statute, HINA of course to increase its visibility, both in the Croatian media space and in the European and that what is being transferred, and when it comes to air recording, it is done professionally as HINA does. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-02-0.u8107	Thank you, too. Mr. Zeljko Pavić will speak in front of the Club of Representatives of the SDP. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-02-0.u8108	... Mr. President... [[You can't hear the speaker.]] esteemed parliamentary representatives. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'll try to explain to our colleague Mr. Bulya, one answer to his, his questions about the number of drones through his debate. Yesterday, on the Committee on Information, Information and Media, we decided on the request of the Director of HINA to amend the Statutes of HINA in Article. in which the HINA activity is defined. The principal was requested, approved by the government and yesterday accepted by the board to expand HINA's activity, which is air recording. This addition of the Statute is another proof that trends are being monitored in HINA and that as far as possible, better and more comprehensive information is being made available to citizens with the aim of obtaining full information and showing the situation related to individual events or events. At the meeting of the Committee, not only was the request for the addition of the statutes accepted, but a whole series of praises for the work of HINA was presented and several proposals were made to increase the efficiency and safety of work, so it was proposed that as soon as possible the additional drones were obtained so that the recording from the air from HINA was covered by the entire country. Based on the presentation of the director, several problems have been observed that are currently present in HINA, and the first problem is related to air recording because there are currently not enough personnel who could do so in the territory of the entire country, which points to the fact that HINA is ready and willing to follow technological trends, but it is necessary to monitor this in the human resources section in a way that employees are educated as much as possible, and in line with the requirements that bring new trends in reporting and news work. In addition to this problem, another problem has been identified which is related to technology, and this is a problem related to the installation of computer equipment, in particular the server at a reserve location, i.e. accommodation... a location that should become active if Zagreb and the location where the servers are currently located are hit by an elemental disaster of catastrophic proportions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As we know, it happened in the spring of this year and the building where the servers and other computer equipment were located, damaged in the earthquake, and after the earthquake, it was supposed to move the server to another location, which was done quickly, quality and efficiently, and in a way that none of the users of the service even noticed that there was a shift in equipment. In addition to this problem, two new problems arise that are not only related to HINA but are related to the functioning of other companies whose founder is the Republic of Croatia and to respect the laws and regulations. On Tuesday, we witnessed a fallout from a teleoper's communications system that caused major problems in the work of many business entities, as well as emergency services, fire departments and police. The failure of this teleoperator caused the unavailability of 112, 192, 193 and nearly six hours. This means that our citizens couldn't get an emergency service, a fire department and police all the time. The reason for this is that these services are used in outgoing calls by multiple teleoperators, but in incoming calls only T-Com services which unfortunately did not work. Now you're probably wondering what this has to do with HINA and the observed problem in HINA. It is the fact that the communication and information technologies sector did not comply with the provisions of the critical infrastructure law and it is evident that no risk assessment has been made in accordance with the provisions of that law or those assessments have been made unqualityally. According to the terms of the CRI Act, the infrastructures related to the provision of audio and audio-visual media services are also included in critical infrastructures, and as we know HINA has a photo, audio, video and multimedia services, as well as the design, manufacture and planning of databases, which means that its systems are included in critical infrastructures. The problems resulting are evident that no risk assessments have been made for HINE critical infrastructures or have been done in a satisfactory manner, so there have been problems with serial equipment located in an earthquake-related building and no equipment has been installed in a safe and remote location that would take over the system crash. And now the equipment is placed in the system of a teleoperator's hall at a location in Zagreb which is in no way in line with the safety requirements. Since risk analyses and sectoral plans to secure the operation of critical infrastructures with the provision of supply of goods or services for sectoral critical infrastructures from their own circle, we conclude in cooperation with competent regulatory agencies that these authorities have failed in the case of HINE as well as in the case of emergency assistance, police and firefighters. The second problem identified was that the agency which should provide support to state-owned enterprises and institutions in the field of information technologies did not in this case do its job for which it was established. And to sum up, we think that HINA, as well as a series of state-owned companies, see them as independent units doing business and acting well, but when it comes to mutual co-operation and coordination, as well as control by the central authorities of the state administration, we conclude that this still needs to be done seriously. Our club will vote in favour of changes, or additions to the HINE statutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-02-0.u8109	Thank you very much. We have two injuries to the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Scoro.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-02-0.u8110	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Article 232 has been injured. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, the speaker can only talk about the subject under the established agenda. So not only did the fellow MP who was now speaking, but all the representatives who spoke mostly did not stick to the subject. The Department of Homeland Movement Club thinks this is one situation where we need to get a drone, there's nothing to discuss, it's just that we use this drone for useful purposes and we don't chase citizens around and get into someone's privacy. I'm sure the Rules of Procedure have been hurt. [[Intruder: Not a replica.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-02-0.u8111	Thank you, too. I am obliged to answer and give you the right, except that we have let everyone speak to the end, and I have taken one position, Mr. Škoro, that if the problem we are talking about is related to technology, and in 90% of the cases, it is related to technology and such things that I will allow, then I have only given one, one, one injury to the Rules of Procedure because we entered the controversy after that, and I have allowed Mr. Buljo to speak to the end. So you're right about what you said. I will, I will not stop anyone, and the warning will only be obtained if it enters the topics that are far from this change of statute, and these are topics that do not relate to technology. If there's anything else you want to say? All right, all right, but you're right. Mr. Shimičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-02-0.u8112	Here, thank you, Vice President. Article 238 was injured, and the honourable representative was actually speaking beyond the subject. This is about Article 10, supplemental of Article 10 of the Statute of the Croatian News Agency, which means that this distinguished home will vote this Article 10, where it is said that the news agency will be able to record and photograph from the air, nothing else, all of what people here are saying is actually in the expert literature said time thieves. We could solve the whole thing here in 15 minutes, we're discussing 55 minutes. [[Intruder: Thank you, time.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-02-0.u8113	Mr. Simičević, I think I've answered that same problem, Mr. Škori, that you're both right, but this one, since we could talk about the drone for two minutes, now I'm going to give you my word right now, about the drone we could talk about 2 minutes if, if the debate moves around technology and then I'm going to let you talk about it all the way. Mr. Miro Bulj is the only one who has an individual discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-02-0.u8114	Here, distinguished principals, colleagues and colleagues, this pay phone here is what is our tool to give our views. On behalf of the committee, a colleague of the board said that one drone was being obtained, understanding that it would be for Zagreb as far as I have figured out at this point and that we parliamentary representatives were discussing what HINA should have and what 120 people deserved and what the national agency needed to have. There is a great role in Croatian history these 30 years HINE and, of course, that we as a body need to discuss it legislatively, I wish a representative of the Government who here is wise to remain silent. We're talking about how glad I am to have a drone, I'm glad we have new people's education and new content of profit and I can't wait, here's my colleague Skoro just said that he's off topic, that with these HINA drones the whole world shows processed Slavonia, all the fields processed. I'll enjoy it, I'll enjoy it when these incentives are given for cattle in Dalmatia on cow's crumb when those fields are taken. I will support this roundup, but I am saying that the agency and 120 people must be evenly deployed, of course Zagreb, of course Zagreb is the capital and he must have it. However, I only wanted to point out that we should not forget the rest of Croatia, it is in line with this topic. If we are already discussing this perhaps a benign change that is very important for our agency and the public, of course, and the possibility of reporting to the news agency and new tools received by news agencies, which the news agencies have long since played, have a number of other media that are much smaller, smaller, no smaller, and also those who are under the government's tools, which the government pays, which the county pays from its budget funds, to write exclusively as newsletters, that's a good, newsletter government. And the agency as a public service triba allow it to make, I say, that it makes decisions beyond these minor changes, that all technological possibility is that here through the board, through the profession, through the Ministry of Culture, such changes do not come to the Assembly, to make such changes, but to allow legally all technological innovations to allow Croatia all in accordance with its business and action policy to be aligned with the most modern news agencies... I believe that this change shows how much we, as a legislative body, hold a passage around certain things, and I will not speak executive power, not only taking the agency here, but otherwise and indeed 20 million kuna compared to a billion and 300 million kuna, what citizens pay with HRT, the Croatian news agency is a news agency that conveys the news crediblely in the forest, mainly that is my position, and the triba support their work. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] And this wasn't a criticism, this was for us to think, is if the board president said, the president here to be discussed on the board that there would be only one, of course, that I, as a parliamentary representative coming from Dalmatia, must say that, that is my obligation whether off the subject or not, there we will make a rule that you in the party's presidency, in Parliament's presidency, prescribe to us parliamentary representatives exactly what we should say, but it's not a parliamentary representative, it's not a parliamentary representative. The parliamentary representative is the one who has to apply certain things to these changes or some others and give some suggestions to think about. I propose to the board, to you in the government, to enable us in the assembly to make all technological changes based on policies within the reporting agency that they make these business decisions themselves, and we are those who can increase resources, as well as the Ministry of Culture that can enable them to achieve this, to be the most modern and transparent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-02-0.u8115	Stay here. Since you've been referring to, not something I've done before, I'm the last person to determine in this assembly what to say and that's why I always let everyone talk to the end. But by sticking to the subject, you're sticking to the subject now. Sticking to the subject, that's one thing. And secondly, after taking a stand, you can talk about it whatever you want after that, yes, but now I'm going to give you replicas. You have 4-5 replicas.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-02-0.u8116	Can I answer that?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-02-0.u8117	Actually, no. Actually, no.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-02-0.u8118	It's in line with the subject because the drone debate...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-02-0.u8119	You can't actually talk.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-02-0.u8120	The board president said she'd buy, get... One drone at a time. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-02-0.u8121	I can't, Mr. Bulj, you know, you're, you're a fox and you know you're the last, so if I give you a second violation of the Rules of Procedure now, that you'll, anyway, it's the last debate, is that, well, you don't care, so I won't give you an injury to the Rules of Procedure but I'll give you the opportunity to respond to the replicas, and the first line was asked for by Mr. Škoro.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-02-0.u8122	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Bull, I think you've received a second warning. You said well in your presentation, so it's definitely a matter of form and content here. We've been discussing form for an hour, the question is whether you should get a Hina drone, absolutely yes. The future of many human activities lies in drones, in drones. But I'll remind you, and you're a witness to that yourself, and we've talked about it, that there can be abuse, abuse of drone use. And that's what happened in Croatia and therefore, that's what we might have to talk about at some other occasion, so not when it's a matter of form and a change of statutes, which is in any case very unusual and least unnecessary. But when it comes to content, when the question is what will be recorded with this drone, to which purpose it will be used, will it be used to say that it was above Slovenia 9 which you often like to mention or say whether there were abuses when drones were used... Citizens who have been speculative of covid, that's an interesting thing. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[Intruder: Thank you, time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-02-0.u8123	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-02-0.u8124	In this section, a colleague would agree with you that, especially in this last part, drones can also be used in the illegal part. Perhaps that area was not legally defined, the farmers were being filmed fertilized in self-insulating their vineyards, fields and penalties, while at the same time the archile and the banch and the money were being distributed in Slovenia 9 which you have now mentioned with the ticket counter i.e. The money counter was shared and I hope that the money will still return to the Croatian people, the taxpayers, and that this money will be used for much better purposes at this point that was shared by public companies or favouring public procurement. And I know that this safe space stands to be arranged, that space with this other law is a threat to both national security and internal security. It's an internal policy. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-02-0.u8125	- Mrs. Crescent. Martincevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-02-0.u8126	Dear Representative Bulj, I, therefore, made it clear in the committee's statement that yesterday we discussed the need to change the statutes with the idea of obtaining a drone, we discussed it, I also said that several representatives of the board pointed out the need to ensure more drones so that all of Croatia, therefore all of its regions were equally represented in the media space, it was the committee's initiative, I put it out on behalf of the board today and we believe that HINA will accept our suggestion and in time, or as soon as possible naturally obtain a number of drones. Also, your second observation that it is absurd to talk here and discuss the acquisition of a drone, I agree with you, I have also stated in my presentation, but the situation is such that we are working here to amend the statutes, changing or supplementing the activity, it is seeking a change of statute and the Parliament decides on it. So we just couldn't avoid the situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-02-0.u8127	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-02-0.u8128	Dear colleagues, you as chairman of the board and I was just listening to what the board was discussing because the committee was certainly more open and on the board this topic was discussed with the esteemed director, certainly much more quality because here it is cramped, here whether you say you need a drone in Dalmatia, immediately says off topic you are. If it were to be filmed from a craft, let's say my beautiful Cetina, Sinjsko polje, Dinara because it is as difficult as it is Zagreb, it is, Zagreb is the capital of Croatia and should be and fathers but we have 2/3 of Croatia that are absolutely forgotten and this periphery is forgotten and I wanted to stress it, in the perspective we allow the director and the administration and her colleagues to have the opportunity to carry it from the field and that situation, right. And I agree with you, i.e. At the outset, I said that we should make it possible, as a legislator, as a founder, not to discuss this at all, there are more important things in HINA and more positive and better things to talk about.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-02-0.u8129	Thank you. Mr. Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-02-0.u8130	So I'd just try to answer Mr. Skori and my colleagues from HDZ, unfortunately they're not here, it's that I've tried to draw attention to it if successful drone videos are done and there's a disaster, if that equipment that's going to support drones is not going to be legally placed, we're not going to see those videos and actually at the moment of some disaster, then the citizens are turning to the media and the media is going to get information that and how they continue to act. If we don't have the support properly supported and in HINA, that's why I've turned the principal's attention to what else should be done to get it to the level at which it should be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-02-0.u8131	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-02-0.u8132	I'm always to argue because HINA is very important. It is a public service, and it is certain that it is personal to me as a man from Dalmatia, from my Cetina region, that a statement from the chairman of the board when she said one will be bought, of course in the perspective of perhaps another, I would like the whole field to be covered because if there was a huge earthquake and a threat that happened in Zagreb, we have in Dalmatia fire, there are a lot of these things and elementary disasters and threats that also affect other parts of the Republic of Croatia, yes, and a lot of nice things that can talk about our landscapes, historically, culturally, traditionally and that we can record, let's say that there's a nice video of Sinjska Alka, that has HINA, all the media would pass on, it's tourist and other important things. That's why we need to discuss this, give HINA the opportunity to, obviously, want to follow trends, it's progressive, to allow it with the statute that they can make decisions on technological development.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-02-0.u8133	Thank you. - Mrs. Crescent. Dark Taritash Here you go, ma'am. [[Intruder Bull: In accordance with the law.]] Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-02-0.u8134	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Representative Bulj, you said on several occasions, we're only discussing this one point. The fact is, we discussed in this House some amendments to the law that had been amended in one article. But as long as it is a legal obligation that any amendment to the HINA statutes must come to the Assembly, it will come. So maybe this is an opportunity to think about it and make a suggestion that HINA's statutes don't come to the Parliament. It's up to us what this debate is about to go into. But the one that's bound by HINA is to come with an amendment to a provision at the Parliament. That provision does not say one drone, 100 drones, writes another new HINA activity that we have been simplified to discuss about the drone. Whether or not it will be one or 100 drones, it will depend on HINA's business decision but on what we adopt, it can deal with this activity and it's important to say.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-02-0.u8135	Thank you. Thank you very much, I'm sorry, Mr. Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-02-0.u8136	Dear Vice President, I'm actually asking for a revision of the Rules of Procedure to be added to an article that, if a representative or representative doesn't understand what it is, they would be assigned an assistant under official duty. I demand an amendment to the statutes of the Rules of Procedure. [[Intruder Radin: But you did not call for an article.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-02-0.u8137	Okay, that, I mean, answer me, please answer the line because it wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure. It wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-02-0.u8138	I'd say colleagues that she's right here, we have an obligation as founders, as bearers of this act. This body would discuss this, however, here, I propose here first of all to the Committee, the Ministry of Culture and the representative of the Ministry of Culture to propose to this Parliament that technological development is in accordance with the law and all that it should be, that these things be possible for HINA herself because I do not know what will appear in the media innovation that HINA can decide for itself and of course that it will come to the Parliament, you are obliged to report to the Parliament, so that we should not waste so much time on these things, here I am consensual and colleagues would say, you will not write to me because the undertakers of Slavonia, those who managed, will not forbid me to talk about what I am going to talk about and what I understand and I do not understand. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-02-0.u8139	Thank you. Time. - Mrs. Crescent. Grman Kizzwat, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-02-0.u8140	Thank you, Vice President. Well, I really don't understand that we've only been discussing the purchase of HINA drones for an hour. So the money's there, people are, as far as I can tell, certified to be able to manage those drones and we're all in agreement, and we're also over an hour discussing the purchase of drones in the 21st century of 2020, and we're discussing how HINA is going to make drones. Shouldn't that have been done? On the other hand, when the report comes on HINA's work, then we can discuss some things and agree with colleague Mrak Taritash that it is simply necessary to change the rules of procedure if they can obtain some technological innovation for their work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-02-0.u8141	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-02-0.u8142	So in this case... agreeing with you from the first last sentence you said. We are discussing something that should have been the Agency's business policy is we will certainly have a report, and this would have been a tribal on the parent board and with the Ministry of Culture to allow it to be defined precisely through some change of this statute to allow HINA's development and acceptance of new technological innovations is really talking about this today in 2020 before the end is a little funny. But, well, let's argue we have a pay phone. Maybe we can come to a common conclusion. I can see that they're a little all agreeable.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-02-0.u8143	Thank you very much. You don't have any more replicas. Mrs. Branka Gabriela Vojvodić will have the final word as director of HINA.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-02-0.u8144	Thank you very much. Thank you, everyone who's been arguing. I will be very brief and will not steal your time, since it really was about one supplement, the statute of the device because the statute of HINA was brought by the Croatian Parliament and therefore the Croatian Parliament must change it. It wasn't about the number of drones, it was about the registration of the activity, which is the air recording. So, it's already on its way to Split, I'm also from Dalmatia, Representative Bulj, so I'm glad and if I hadn't been glad, I hope we'll move on then, but of course we have to keep in mind and have qualified people for that job. We have 33 correspondents within Croatia, so we are not a Zagreb agency, we are a Croatian agency, we are a national agency, we promote national interests and we want to stay. What I'm extremely glad about is that at least it's my impression that Parliamentarians think we're working balancedly, that we're working fast. I assure you that we follow technology and otherwise the decisions on the technological progress of HINA are not made in the Croatian Parliament, HINA has been fully technologically improved. This was one detail due to the national classification of activities, we will continue to be professional in the interests of the state in the interests of our citizens. Representative Matula said that it was a shame that we didn't have a drone on the day of that sad earthquake, and that's true, that's what we're sorry about, but here's the Pelješki Bridge, all kinds of good and bad in Zagreb. Alku's hard to film because there are special regulations when it comes to gathering people, you can't fly exactly what you want, and besides that, it's not just about flying, it's about recording and broadcasting, so we're going to do it by law, and I hope the Parliament votes this. Thank you all very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-02-0.u8145	Thank you. Stay here. Mr. Bull, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-02-0.u8146	Thank you very much. Dear principal. I'd just say that if you didn't take up the time of the parliamentary deputies, we'd be paid to discuss and sit here, so on the other hand, if you'd gotten the impression of some of the unnecessary debate, I think they're wrong. As far as I'm concerned, I'm glad you mention that there will be more drones, of course there is a need for more financial resources, people, training, training and so on, but I referred to the board, to the board president who said there would be one drone in Zagreb, I referred to it and opened the debate. However, all praises to our agency as a public service, and I expect that you will get the opportunity to follow the business and development technologies once through the amendments to the statutes that we will all make together to make easier decisions for you, and you will certainly give us a report so that it will be much easier for you and we will not take away the time for you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-02-0.u8147	Thank you very much. Would you like to answer? No, I don't. There's another replica of Mrs. Martincevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-02-0.u8148	Given the fact that a lot of MPs today have warned of the fact that we are really discussing the acquisition so now turns out to be about getting a drone, and that in an hour and 20 minutes I have also warned in my presentation that the statute of the Agency has not changed since 2001 and that such a statute can no longer go into step with the time and needs of a modern media, so it is my question to you, will you change the procedure of amending the statutes to avoid such situations, but to update the statute itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-02-0.u8149	You want to answer that? Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-02-0.u8150	So HINA's statute is closely related to the HINA Act, which is already quite old and in the ministry as far as I know and in agreement with us from HINA, we are considering amending that law, and this would also change the statute that has become obsolete in many things.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-02-0.u8151	Thank you very much. We don't have any more replicas, so I'm closing the debate, and we'll vote when the conditions are met. Thank you very much. Before we move to the next item of the agenda, I would like to report to you that, with the club's position, we will begin at the end of the debate of this point now which is to come. So there could be one before. - Rules of Procedure on the work of the Committee on European Affairs – Confirmation is submitted to the Committee on European Affairs on the basis of Article. 64. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate was conducted by the Legislative Committee. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? This is Domagoj Hajdukovic. Would you like some? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-02-0.u8154	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, you have a Rules of Procedure on the work of the Committee on European Affairs, which the Committee unanimously adopted at its 1st session held on 28 July 2020. The Rules of Procedure have been adopted as the Chairman and mentioned, on the basis of Article 1(1) of the Rules of Procedure. Paragraph 64 is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, which states that the Committee on European Affairs shall adopt a Rules of Procedure on its work which shall be confirmed by the Assembly and published in the National Journal. Allow me a few words about the need to adopt Rules of Procedure. The European Affairs Committee was established by Croatia's entry into the EU to exercise Parliament's powers in European affairs in accordance with the usual parliamentary practice in the Member States of the Union. The powers and the work of the Committee are laid down by the Law on the Cooperation of the Croatian Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Croatia in European Affairs and the Parliamentary Rules of Procedure. This makes us a unique committee whose work is regulated not only by the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament but also by the law. Since the Committee performs a number of specific tasks, the Rules of Procedure of the Committee on European Affairs shall be subject to more precise arrangements and procedures laid down by law and by the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament. In fact, the Committee on European Affairs is authorised to carry out European affairs on behalf of the Assembly, which means that specific working relations are being established within the Committee which we wish to establish for these Rules of Procedure. The beginning of the new meeting of the Croatian Parliament has been seen as an opportunity for the adoption of the Committee's Rules of Procedure, especially since the Assembly has circled its experience as the national parliament of the EU Member State and our parliamentary dimension of the Presidency after the completion of the parliamentary dimension of the Croatian Presidency. Now allow me a few words about European affairs in the Parliament. Most generally speaking, the implementation of European affairs involves the activities of the Assembly arising from Croatia's membership in the EU. Depending on whether the Parliament, or on its behalf, acts directly towards the European Commission and other EU institutions or the Government, which then participates in decision-making in European institutions, European affairs can be shared in an indirect and direct manner. Indirect implementation of European affairs concerns the procedures through which the Council oversees the government's activities in European institutions and is primarily about considering the position of the Republic of Croatia, on EU documents as well as on national positions for EU Council meetings. The direct implementation of European affairs refers to direct communication between the Council and the EU institutions and implies a percentage of the verification of compliance with the principle of subsidiarity and political dialogue with European institutions, primarily the Commission. The procedure of the Parliament or the Committee on European Affairs in the indirect and direct performance of European affairs in the largest part is prescribed by the law on the cooperation of the Croatian Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Croatia in European affairs and the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. As the Rules of Procedure were drawn up on the work of the Committee on European Affairs, we kept in mind that wherever possible, provisions already in place in the Co-operation and Parliamentary Rules of Procedure were not repeated. Following the opening act containing the basic provisions and laying down the areas of work of the European Affairs Committee to be set out in the Rules of Procedure, the following shall be the part stating the powers of the President, the Vice-President and the members of the Committee. In this section, I would point out that we are in art. 5. count the rights and duties of board members, after which it shall be determined that members of the committee in the order of public scientific and professional staff shall have all those rights other than the right to decide. In the past experience with this so-called. external board members have shown that there are times when there is a lack of understanding of the role of outside committee members. Rules of Procedure of the Parliament in Art. 57th states that the working bodies of the Assembly may be appointed by public and scientific professionals who have all the rights of a member of the working body other than the right to decide, and we call them so much as external members. However, since the Rules of Procedure do not later state the rights of members of the working bodies, foreign members have sometimes called for the rights and duties of representatives in the Croatian Parliament, which is of course not true. We want to clarify both the action and the external members of the Committee on European Affairs by giving a clear indication of the rights and responsibilities that the members of the Committee have. In the work of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Committee on European Affairs on the way the Committee works, we focused on specificities in the work of the Committee in the indirect and direct performance of European affairs. So among other things, Art. Seven. The Rules of Procedure shall specify in detail what the document with the DEU marking, the number to be given in accordance with the procedure in the Assembly. It is the opinion of the Republic of Croatia on proposals for legislative and non-legislative acts of the EU and other documents of a political and legal nature brought by the EU institutions which are included in the work programme to consider the position of the Republic of Croatia. The Rules of Procedure of the Assembly shall specify in which way those positions are indicated, so the DEU marking, while the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Committee shall specify what the document contains, the format of the label and the publication of the document on the website of the Assembly. Furthermore, the Rules of Procedure of the Committee shall regulate the availability of documents directly to the Assembly by the EU institutions, the process of supplementing the work programme for the discussion of the position of the Republic of Croatia, the co-operation of the Committee on European Affairs with other working bodies of the Assembly in European Affairs, cooperation with members of the European Parliament elected in the Republic of Croatia, the procedure for proposing a report on the work of the Committee and the public of the work of the Committee. I am particularly emphasising co-operation with the working bodies of the Parliament as a key to the implementation of European affairs and the work of the Committee on European Affairs. At yesterday's meeting of the Committee, we amended and updated a work programme to discuss the position of the Republic of Croatia for 2020, and we are particularly pleased that many working bodies have shown great interest in participating in the discussion of the position of the Republic of Croatia on EU documents. Next, in Art. 13. We organise the participation of the Committee on European Affairs in political dialogue with the EU institutions. Political dialogue is an informal instrument for the exchange of written opinions with the European Commission launched by former Commission President Jose Manuel Barroso. In a broader sense, political dialogue, however, includes meetings with representatives of all EU institutions, as well as the participation of representatives of national parliaments at committee meetings and the European Parliament's delegations, as stated in Article. 13. Rules of Procedure. Finally, we are still stressing the provisions relating to the membership of the European Affairs Committee in the conference on European, Union, pardon, EU parliaments, etc. A goat. In this regard, Kozak is the oldest interparliamentary cooperation format in the EU and the only interparliamentary conference institutionalised by the basis, the basis of the contract, the EU's contracts, Protocol No. 1. on the role of national parliaments in the EU. The European Affairs Committee is a member of COSAC and regularly participates in its meetings 4 times a year. Rules of Procedure of the Committee in Art. 15. edit, in art. The 15th is arranged to determine committee delegations at COSAC meetings, as well as to carry out professional and administrative tasks for the purposes of delegations. Due to the current epidemiological situation meetings are currently taking place through a video conference, and the first... The video conference was held during the Croatian Presidency on 16 June this year in the format of the presidential COSAC's extraordinary meeting. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] And in the section concerning membership in COSAC, but also in general, we have abstained from regulating the work of the board in the event of an outbreak of infectious diseases or the danger of epidemics and pandemics, and in this regard we follow all the recommendations and instructions, as well as decisions of the Assembly Presidency. Finally, the Rules of Procedure of the Committee on European Affairs are the result of the accumulated practice of doing European jobs in previous meetings. From its establishment to this day, the Committee has had the opportunity to participate in almost all procedures involving national parliaments, and through this practice it has been more clearly shown which areas should be further regulated through the Rules of Procedure. We believe that this objective has been achieved by the text that is before you, and we propose to the Assembly to confirm the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Committee on European Affairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-02-0.u8155	Does the committee reporter want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening the debate, the first to hold a debate came the distinguished representative Marko Pavić on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-02-0.u8156	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the HDZ Club, I can say that we will support this point and this Rules of Procedure, as we have also supported the Committee itself. What should certainly be pointed out is that European affairs are national affairs, that most of the acts we bring here are also transposed as directives and regulations of the European Parliament and of the Council. This Rules of Procedure defines, in addition to the basic things in which the Committee works, defines and documents, how to work with EU documents, the position of the Republic of Croatia in which we exchange documentation and communicate, a COSAC conference which is a conference of this conference, or conference of the Committee on Union Affairs of the EU Parliaments. As such, the HDZ Club will support him. Yesterday we also brought in a programme that is quite ambitious, which monitors European files and initiatives and legislative, not legislative and all proposals from the European Commission. I also thank the chairman of the Committee in the former composition of Domagoj Milosevic, thank you and the new president, I believe that this Rules of Procedure and way of working of the Committee on European Affairs will improve the co-operation between Zagreb and Brussels, as well as benefit Croatian citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-02-0.u8157	The next debate is, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-02-0.u8158	Thank you, Mr. Vice President HS. On behalf of the Club of Representatives and representatives of the Green-Left Block, I request a break of 15 minutes or 10 if it is maximum business, in order to further consult on this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-02-0.u8159	All right, I'll approve a five-minute break. We'll leave at 11.07. It's 11:00 P.M. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 11.07 HOURS]] The next debate is on behalf of Green-left bloc MP Bojan Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-02-0.u8161	Dear colleagues and colleagues. The Green-Left bloc club and representatives on the proposal of the Rules of Procedure have no objection and we will support its adoption. However, in the context of this debate, we believe that there is something to be said about how European affairs are being run and how we are talking about the EU in society. For days, the Croatian public has been discussing the problem of the existence of a social club for leading people in this country where the elite behind closed doors and far from the eyes and ears of the public makes decisions on the lives and everyday lives of citizens and citizens of Croatia. Members of that club are not subject to rules that apply to others. The public was quite unanimous in condemning the concept itself, as well as the participants of socializing in that club and that is understandable. Politics. Decisions concerning our society must take place in a public debate process that is transparent in each part of its public debate and the public may participate, be informed of what is proposed, rebel if it disagrees with something. That is why it is understandable that the Croatian public's reaction to the Slovenian 9 camel was so bitter and angry. However, what if I told you that Croatian Prime Ministers and Foreign Ministers, including Andrej Plenkovic, have been involved in something similar for years, but completely ignored or accepted by the Croatian public, and the decisions made in this round have been affected, not only by the lives of citizens and citizens of Croatia, but also by the lives of more than 440 million citizens and citizens of the EU. I am talking, of course, about the EU Council and I want to say that I was a little unfair in my analogy with the club in Slovenia 9, since this body is perfectly legitimate, perfectly legal and absolutely necessary, at least while the EU is still looking for its way into the future. But I'm gonna say something about it a little bit later. A similarity with Slovensko 9, at least when it comes to Andrej Plenkovic, lies in the fact that neither the wider Croatian public nor representatives and MPs in HS actually know what positions he will represent at EU council meetings whose proposals and values will support, who he will support for high duties in the Union institutions. The Croatian public, and we in the Assembly, learn about all this only after these meetings have been completed, and the official report comes to the Parliament sometimes with several months of delays. Croatian journalists and journalists who follow EU council meetings, our prime minister must hunt for statements in the Brussels halls, and in response to their questions, he often shows a mockery or frustration by the fact that, behold, he now has to answer some stupid questions about things that few people understand anyway, in his opinion, of course. Between the EU councils and clubs in Slovenia 9, there is a difference between heaven and country, of course, but the difference between democracy and the citizens of Croatia between participants in the Slovenian 9 and Andrej Plenkovic talks when going to the European Council is very few. It's a very similar mental framework. This is the year in which a big conference on the future of Europe should be held. The decisions taken at the conference should determine the direction in which Europe will go and provide answers to some important questions about its identity. Whether it will develop into a Federation, whether it will become a community of countries that are in a loose union, participate each to its own extent. Will it become, will the Union be less political and more economical, will the borders remain open among the Member States? Are we going to expand the union or not? Will the payment of money from EU funds be conditioned by respecting common values and the rule of law? This and many other issues should theoretically find their answer at a conference on Europe's future. I believe that the voice of Croatia must be heard at the conference. And in order to hear the voice of Croatia, we need to have a very broad public debate in Croatia on this subject and we need to do it in a whole series of ways, through the stands, through the writing of writers, philosophers, politicians, journalists and social scientists in public media through the debate in the Parliament, Croatia is an inseparable part of Europe, and therefore its position must be voiced, and the message clearly and unequivocally. This will not be possible if the executive authority and its top representatives are satisfied with surveys showing that citizens are not interested in European topics. And they accept that information as something that plays on the hand of elitism, which, unfortunately, they are prone to. No, we have to expect better and more from them, precisely because many of them are, and this is true for Andrej Plenkovic and Zoran Milanovic, people who really know more about the EU than average and know all its strengths and weaknesses. They must encourage debate on our place in the Union and on the future of the Union, their mission must be to, for example, participate in the next elections for MPs and MPs in the EU parliament to be closer to the one for HS, not the embarrassing 29th and change percent as it was in 2019. Therefore, we call for the debate on these topics to be more open, democratic and for all participants and participants to make a constructive contribution. Europe will be as good to us as we try to make it good. If we act like her margin, that's exactly where we'll be. If we are not interested in her, our representatives there will feel no obligation to involve us in decisions in which they participate. The Green-Left bloc club and representatives will be active in European topics and we will do our best to include all citizens and citizens who have given us their trust in the elections in public debate. The EU does not exist outside of us, nor because of anyone but us, our engagement will reflect it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-02-0.u8162	We have one violation of the Rules of Procedure, distinguished representative Marko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-02-0.u8163	Thank you very much. Well, I'm surprised that Mr. Glavasevic injured and spoke out of the question when you have the opportunity to have a free speech after this. And when we talk about European jobs and you were sitting in the SDP government that lost a billion euros, you could have fought 10% of cohesion that you were active. What didn't you do then? Prime Minister Plenkovic secured Croatia 22 billion euros and not in some strange halls, you lost along with Prime Minister Milanovic a billion euros. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-02-0.u8164	Okay, but here, a large number of MPs are speaking out of the question, if they were to give, if they were to break it up, they'd have big problems, and that's what these voters are gonna see, so they're gonna end up assessing it. Okay, the next debate is on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent List, Honorable Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-02-0.u8165	Thank you very much. Dear Proposer, colleagues and colleagues, here are the citizens you watch in front of small screens today we are discussing the committee's work. amending the Rules of Procedure and the work of the Committee on European Affairs, which is fine and should be discussed. However, our citizens of Croatia who are in the EU may have expected laws here, if they do not have them, we have the opposition, not to watch at 11 o'clock as we shut down the assembly and go home on Fridays until other people can. I personally have proposed 5 legislative proposals, my club has several serious legal proposals on agriculture and on everything, sharing agricultural land on a number of topics that we do not have to agree or agree on, but the opposition has been making numerous proposals and chairing if you have nothing and if the Government has no initiative and if the Government has no possibility we parliamentary representatives chosen want to discuss the legal problems that our citizens have against. We've got a number of suggestions right now, and we're not going to go home when I'm done, and on behalf of the committee president, we're going home. So I think about this many problems where it's embarrassing that we don't have any more themes and that we don't work all day at least within hours. As for this proposal, of course, the Assembly would have to control not only the European affairs of the Croatian Government of this proposal, which is, unfortunately, changes to the Rules of Procedure, but unfortunately, what is being controlled by the Slovenian 9 and that decisions are being made there and by energy strategy, because the Plenkovic premium is giving us a report here, which is ok with the European Council, the distinguished colleague of the club, the chairman of the committee, the esteemed colleagues and colleagues, the fact is that the focus has now turned away from the statement of the narrator I don't know what all the statements were made to me, which the prime minister was also saying to the cultural Brussels shepherds, I don't know everything he was saying here, but it's gone from the main topic. Mostly in Croatia, a deep state works, we as a parliament and this amendment of the Rules of Procedure gives us the opportunity to put the assembly legally, legally prescribed by this committee's commitment to the Rules of Procedure. So it's a legal change. However, when we see how at this point it has turned away from the important statements of the narrators and the most important how the ministers of key management of energy and environmental resistors, the economic resistors with those who are setting up public procurement for cash, dry cash bought jobs in state and public companies, then we see how our state works. We have much more serious issues to discuss, not to lock the assembly at 11:30. I'm talking about the agenda point please I still have [[Intruder: Stick to the agenda, please.]] That's what Furio Radin, vice president of the assembly, also told me, I would ask you every morning to sign up for parliamentary deputies to write them what you're going to say, talk about the subject, talk about amending the rules of procedure, talk about the legal obligation to enter into the Rules of Procedure, to control, primarily control the work of foreign affairs, that the committee is being executed, unfortunately we see and we can see that the policy of ministers who have to implement energy policy, environmental policy, sustainable policy development, traffic policy where the huge money from our citizens' European funds is being paid into funds, in our budget, taxpayers, that this money is being weighed down, i.e. to be bought through public procurement with dry cash. [[Intruder: It is not related to the point.]] National policy, national security, internal policy and foreign policy have been compromised, so as now the prime minister is going to come here, half his ministers in the club of the head of a strong JANAF, a strong public company, and now that he is going to go up to the European Council because he is making decisions. Does it bring through the surveillance procedures, this work of the board that's in charge of foreign policy and how we're going to allocate funds to us when people see people getting 2 million kunas and the color of these pipelines in JANAF six times, seven times it's just important to emphasize it here. We must do this as parliamentary representatives in the context of the topic. The parliament is a body in which it should be decided, not club Dragan Kovacevic, not club Dragan Kovacevic, Mr Sanader. So this is where it's decided, it's decided by the ministers here, not by dry cash. So I'm talking about the board's rules of procedure and it's being applied, you know, if you've read the law they're looking for, you don't even know what it's about. [[Intruder: Sir, we're talking about the Rules of Procedure on the Committee's work.]] Here In this regard, it is the law that requires the committee to oversee the foreign affairs of the Croatian Government, and what is not in the Rules of Procedure, and we are now introducing it into the Rules of Procedure, I am saying that this committee must, by law, oversee the government, but it does not oversee this committee of the Government but the club in Slovenia 9 because there are key people who should be implementing policies mainly of the means that we boast that we get from the Ministers of Transport, Infrastructure, Minister of Environment and Economy, the sustainable development of huge money, and not that we have the managers of waste such as Mariščina, Lečevica, down here you know what is happening. [[Intruder: Are you...]] So this committee of these amendments to the Rules of Procedure should be a body to oversee the foreign affairs of the Croatian Government and foreign policy. And you're laughing at it, you're laughing, you're laughing, you're laughing.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-02-0.u8166	What I'm going to laugh at, you're twisting the debate and you're making a clown of yourself, from yourself and from this assembly, that's a shame.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-02-0.u8167	What are you laughing at? That's what you're like. You want to tell me, come on.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-02-0.u8168	Here, talk about the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-02-0.u8169	Come on, talk, we'll listen to him. Are we going to listen to him, colleagues, instead of me? I think these incursions by the vice president as just now and Vice President Radin want to draw attention to some far more irrelevant matters. I once again express dissatisfaction, Vice President, please refer this to the Bureau of Parliament to discuss, we have legal initiatives if there is no power we have legal initiatives from the opposition, we do not want to agree but we can discuss examples of the division of agricultural land because we are now completing our working hours before noon. And I believe that this assembly has key problems, I would like the assembly to work only half an hour without making decisions in Croatia, for example in clubs such as at Club Slovenska 9. And that's funny to you, and here's funny to former Minister Pavic, what he says you can hurt the Rules of Procedure, but I'll give you two minutes. I don't know if you're laughing at a mustache, maybe you were there, too, I can see that all the time when you mention Slovenian 9 feelings, feelings...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-02-0.u8170	Don't comment with the MPs, please, stick to the debate, don't communicate with the MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-02-0.u8171	Here you go. I'd just ask the vice president to finish my speech so feel free to let him sign up we'll give the replicas on behalf of the club to finish this. These changes were supposed to be whether the legal obligation was passed in the Rules of Procedure, and what happens in foreign affairs and in the Brussels halls is not realistic, we are calling for European policies, and in fact we are here today, we have a completely different policy here today which has nothing to do with the EU and what is happening in the Republic of Croatia with some law, with some European representation, with some personal me, when it came into the EU, supported the way we are entering the EU, and I see these that have promised us stars since we entered the EU never more difficult and never worse. And when I say worse, why? The worst is when Croatia is empty, the worst is when 2/3 of Croatia is empty and the worst is when the laws in this case are the competent committee that should be supervised, which should oversee the Government of Croatia's foreign policy to make cases happen here in foreign policy also this Sabelak, a man who lost his job i.e. who is persecuted for the truth. And I would once again say that the foreign policy, pro-European policy, the Brussels halls that represent themselves here are unfortunately reduced to Slovenia 9 where it decides everything, about jobs where people who have their companies fail because they are not competitive, and they cannot be competitive because they are much more competitive than public procurement of transparency, but they are paid bribes in such Croatia and for such Croatia we have not fought for, and my fighters are also underground. That's why we get serious and don't let the jammaras in the pits run the state by these clubs. And that's not funny, that's half of the Croatian Government's resources. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-02-0.u8172	Finally, on behalf of the promoter, the honourable representative, Domagoj Hajdukovic, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-02-0.u8173	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here, allow me at the end of a few words and observation on speaking terms. In fact, we are often insinuating terminology, European jobs are not foreign affairs, European affairs are internal affairs, Brussels is not something far away, abstract and meaningless, Brussels is our second capital, so we decided to refer to the referendum, so we have defined ourselves as a strategic state we want to belong to that round of countries and therefore we need to treat European affairs. At times, European business is not the most transparent one is often talking about the deficit of democracy in the EU, but there is therefore this committee, and this committee and its mission is precisely to oversee European affairs that fall mainly on the government, to make proposals, to be proactive, and while I am the chairman of this committee, I will try to make as many representatives as possible, and not just board members involved. As far as the work programme is concerned, he may be a little ambitious, but regardless of which, even if some opinions or acts of the Union are not included in the work programme, they are sent to the home working bodies regardless so that every working body that wants to discuss some acts can do so or will receive timely information from us when the Government passes it on to us. The topics ahead of us and this year, by the end of this year, but especially which will dominate in 2021, is the conference of the future of Europe and the future of the EU. I would also like to do the same, and I would like to invite all MPs to participate in this way, we will try and give our pain through the cosmetic format, but also in other ways, because this is a conference that will decide on a lot of things in the Union and direct the Union in decades that come first in ways of making decisions, more transparent action of the Union, but often simplifying the process within the Union itself in order to be more comprehensible, but also to make decisions faster and easier. This is a debate that requires the participation of both the EU Commission and the EU councils and representatives of the EU parliament, as well as representatives of national parliaments, NGOs, the academic community and citizens themselves, at the end of which they are citizens of the Union. Also, the topics that will be on the agenda, first of all from our national perspective, are entering the Schengen area, introducing the euro, expanding and security situation in the Western Balkans, so we have a lot of issues that we want to discuss within the Committee and beyond. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I thank you for your constructive discussion and support, not only the Rules of Procedure but also the work of the Committee on European Affairs, but also the work of the Committee in general. I would also take the opportunity to thank the president in the previous meeting, counterpart Domagoj Ivan Milosevic and all members and members of the board, as well as members and members of the board and vice-presidents now, colleagues Glavasevic and fellow Milosevic. The Rules of Procedure may, of course, be amended as necessary and will be complemented on a continuous basis by taking into account the needs of work that will arise in the future. I am particularly looking forward to continuing my cooperation with the President of the Parliament and the parliamentary working bodies, and what I have seen so far... Encourageing that this assembly of parliament wants to be much more involved and much more debated on European topics than it has been so far. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I also note that, before the publication of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Committee on European Affairs in the National Journal, a language lesson and nomotechnical adjustment of the text will be carried out in cooperation with the Committee on Legislative Affairs and the Office for the Preparation of Publications Acts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-02-0.u8174	We have three replicas. First is Honorable Representative Davor Ivo Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-02-0.u8175	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. While Germany was divided, they once asked Conrad Adenauer why they chose a smaller place, Bonn for the capital. He replied that the Germans always remember that their capital is Berlin. So, speaking of the capital, of course, our capital is and always will be Zagreb. But I agree with my colleague Hajdukovic, European affairs are also our Croatian affairs, that was the point, and in this respect I believe that the work of this committee is extremely important for Croatian citizens as well, because the legislation that has been passed at EU level, the good part, almost even in the majority part of the one that affects our legislation, so much as, here, I would also like to emphasise and praise a good cooperation we had in the past term, and I believe that this will continue now in the Committee on European Affairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-02-0.u8176	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-02-0.u8177	Thank you, fellow Stier. Absolutely, and you've always been constructive on the board, I believe that's how it's gonna be. Maybe I got a little off on the wrong foot when I thought of another capital, and I think we need to start to understand the Brussels policy and the Brussels corridors, as they call it, exactly as they call it, as something that matters to us. Why? The Croatian attitude must be heard, the Croatian voice must be heard, because many topics are being decided on, I will not tell the halls, but in the EU Parliament, in the EU Commission, on the EU Council, therefore we must be more proactive, we must be louder, we must be more involved. And we have to have one enlightening note, too, because people often confuse the concepts within the EU, they don't know what they're about and what the processes are and what they're about, and what are the far-reaching and long-term decisions they're making there. So we've got a lot of work to do, and I believe we'll do it together in quality.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-02-0.u8178	The next replica is the esteemed representative Marko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-02-0.u8179	Thank you very much. Well, I'm glad you pointed out that European affairs are an internal policy. It is clear and can be seen by the number of legislative initiatives that are being transposed in this House. When I said an ambitious programme, I thought commendably and as well as the chairman of the Committee on Regional Development and the EU Funds, I will be equally cooperative and we believe that we will have excellent cooperation. We need to be more ambitious in Brussels, we need to be more proactive, we have seen what this means at the previous WHO when a small item in the multiannual financial framework that countries that entered before 2013 can get 10 additional percent of cohesion, meant the loss of Croatia's billion euros. So, and that's what I answered Mr. Glavasevic. We need to be more cooperative, more proactive in Brussels and the Croatian public more clearly and quality and communicate more with the EU.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-02-0.u8180	Time. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-02-0.u8181	Thank you very much. Well, I didn't take it as a bad thing when you said ambitious, though, I just wanted to point out that all the working bodies, whether they sent answers or not to a question about modifying the work plan, or the work programme, will be able to participate in the discussions and be able to consider the documents they are interested in. And I agree absolutely with the proactive and we as national parliamentarians can have a very good influence in Brussels and through our political parties,.../incomprehensible/... national what some like to call political families in Brussels. But also by our direct work, first of all, I am talking about the format of COSAC, but also a whole series of other formats and the Committee on Foreign Policy and the Committee on Defence and your Committee on Regional Development and EU Funds, so we too must actively engage, communicate more with both the Government and each other and contribute to Croatia's real clear and firm position in the EU.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-02-0.u8182	The last replica, the esteemed representative Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-02-0.u8183	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. And thank you for the presentation of colleague Hajdukovic. You have touched many of the points in which he was actually speaking, we have spoken more on the committee itself than here in the assembly today, but I would like to underline one aspect which, I think, seems to be underrated, which is that EU democratisation, democratisation of decision-making, democratisation of the way and the governance model is one of those central issues concerning the future of Europe and underestimating it, and one elitism that currently exists and is the subject of criticism in the EU, so that is what all of us together can lead to the collapse of one of the best political economic projects, peace projects in the history of the world, so that's what this is all about. And I think the openness to criticise our officials must be much greater than it's ever been before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-02-0.u8184	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-02-0.u8185	My colleague Glavasevic absolutely agrees, so not every criticism is malicious but we are actually trying to improve our attitudes, we are trying to improve suggestions, attitudes, etc. The democratic deficit is the EU's most frequent criticism, so when we talk about a particularly modern political and historical discourse, the democratic deficit is something that is most often undermining. How do you get to that? The Conference on the Future of Europe is thinking about dealing with these issues right now. What is good is that the European Parliament is much more visible, much greater powers, but of course it is not enough. We need to consider what kind of union we want, and we need to be aware, now I'm going to allow myself a little bit of my professional part as a professor of history, the EU has created as a project of elites, but it has long gone beyond these frameworks and now it needs to become something completely different and I'm actually happy that we will also be able to participate in such an important discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-02-0.u8186	Thank you. We've exhausted the full debate with this. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
