ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-27-0.u9634	Good morning, respected MPs and MPs, in accordance with Article. 226.St. 2. Rules of Procedure... 4th session with 13 new points. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] The proposal to supplement the agenda has been submitted to you by electronic... Art. ... [[You can't hear the speaker.]] The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal should be decided, that a particular law should be adopted by an urgent procedure. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] If any of the representatives have objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the case of the adoption of the law under points 1 and 2 of the proposed amendment, these are points: 1. Proposal for a law supplementing the Social Care Act with a final draft law and a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the financing of units of local and regional (regional) self-government with a final proposal for a law. If there are no objections, I shall establish that the proposal for the implementation of the emergency procedure is accepted in accordance with Article. 205. Rules of Procedure. How appropriate. The 225th century 4th century. There are no rules of procedure of written objections at the remaining points of the proposal for the completion of the agenda, i.e. all the proposed items are included in the agenda of the 4th session. Now we're going to vote. First, a proposal to launch a trust issue with Tomislav Ćoric, Minister of Economy and Sustainable Development in the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The promoter is, is, is fine, okay, the promoters are 40 MPs and representatives in the Croatian Parliament. I see in the air the hand of fellow Petrov, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-27-0.u9635	Dear President of HS, I'm looking for a break on this first item. The only chance that Croatia has a future is to finally deal with corruption and, as the start of that reckoning, I see that the Prime Minister is finally not defending the compromised ministers, his people from confidence in HS. At the same time, you defend compromised people, you have an understanding of fraud, and you complain, you cry that you have no money for entrepreneurs and workers. It won't work. You're saying you need to go into more severe epidemiological measures. You can also damage entrepreneurs and workers, bring a moratorium on loans, on interest, don't complain there's no money. You have an understanding of fraud, you have understanding of theft, you have understanding of corruption, okay, but then finally after 30 years and 27 amendments to the executive law, you bring a fair law, you bring a fair executive law, and it's not our problem that you've signed our amendments, you've adopted as your own, our amendments, we're going to make any amendments to the executive law that goes a little bit towards the better status of completed and blocked citizens, but we think the time has finally come, it's already been, to pass a normal clean, fair law. For what you do with the ends is pure racquet and double standards. Citizens if they're late, they get bills, the state, the state has the right to be late for 20 days, 200 days for wholesale drugs, which is why we're all paying for more expensive drugs and, like, everything's fine. It's not right because they're double standards. Double the standards you show in everything. You have no right to do so and you have no right to defend corruption in this House.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-27-0.u9636	Here's a colleague of Tomašević's.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-27-0.u9637	I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Green-Left bloc's Green-Left Revocation Club regarding Minister Coric's recall. In fact, Minister Ćoric has become a burden, not only to this government but to the whole state, because he is headed by the most important resort for Croatia's exit from the crisis, for recovery, for increasing resilience to new crises, for the withdrawal of old and new European funds. He had already shown himself to the very statements of, when he said he was no expert at all in that portfolio, and apparently he had not learned anything about environmental protection in 3 years. On the other hand, even the Constitutional Court suspended me from applying the Waste Management Regulation. On the third hand, it is obvious that he has favored the investor in Krš-Padene and annulled his predecessor's solution to the alleged DORH address, although there is no official evidence about it. He also drank and ate at the club, an illegal bureau of directors of a public firm who is obliged to control as a resolute minister. So, it could still be listed, but it is obvious that the Croatian public is already, although the government obviously still has confidence in Minister Ćorić, the Croatian public said that there is no more trust in Minister Ćorić because Minister Ćoric is the most unpopular minister in this government, so the Croatian public has already decided however this vote goes. And just to take a brief look at the embarrassing statements of HDZ MP Hajdukovic during this debate, just to look back on the shameful statement by Minister Coric, who told my colleague that he was a hysterical activist, just so I could look back on the disgraceful rejection of Vice-President of Parliament Reiner when I warned of the unequal treatment of the opposition and the ruling majority, this is not a dialogue and this is not a picture of HS which I think we all want to tell the Croatian public. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-27-0.u9638	Thank you very much. Comrade Bačić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-27-0.u9639	Thank you, Mr. President. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, I am looking for a 10-minute break to show again after 2 days of debate on Minister Ćorić, for the first time through Interpelation, and second time through the launch of the responsibility issues, how Mr. Ćorić is doing his job well. And that in those two days that the opposition tried to show and prove illegality in the work, they failed. What they have succeeded, the opposition in these two afternoons shows, which is that on the Croatian political stage today there is a coalition between the SDP headed by Mr. Pejo Grbino, the Homeland Movement headed by Mrs. Vidović Kristo, Mosta headed by Mir Bulja, the Sovereignist headed by Mr. Zekanovic and the Workers' Front, i.e. Cominterne, as Mr. Bulj yesterday called the Workers' Front headed by Mrs. Peovic. So, nothing else in the past ten days we've been able to see here in the assembly except that coalition. As for the Executive Act to which Mr Petrov was called, and he mentioned it to me, Mr. Tomašević, we have shown by intervention to the Executive Act that we are deeply concerned at this time with the severe economic crisis of the conditioned pandemic of covida-19 that we are also concerned about the health of our citizens and that we are also concerned about the health of our economy, and we have made it very clear that during the spring we will discuss the entire Executive Act in order to resolve this trauma in a Croatian society that has not been resolved so far. In that sense, I am looking for a break to show once again that HDZ is behind Minister Coric and that everything he has been shown for these days is not true and that he has failed to prove himself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-27-0.u9640	Injury of my colleague Zekanovic's Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-27-0.u9641	The Honorable President of HS. He's injured, of course. In 238, I don't know what Mr. Bačić said to me this morning, and he obviously has a problem with the world-wide coalition between HDZ and SDP, and this would point out that it is signifiable that Andrej Plenkovic is reintroducing Croatia into a lockdown after the elections in HDZ. Perhaps we can expect to see the earthquake in Zagreb again in a few days, and he would have asked you, why did you disable all these missions a few months ago, and now you can suddenly make it possible? Of course I'm up for this scenario.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-27-0.u9642	Comrade Zekanovic, you could have asked for a break, this is now a violation of the Rules of Procedure on your part and you get a warning. Comrade Miletic, I see you're looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-27-0.u9643	Dear President HS Mr. Jandrokovic. Injury of the Rules of Procedure In 238, Mr. Bačić's oxymoron will still turn out to be a bridge in coalition with HDZ because we will support the executive law. It has nothing to do with reality after all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-27-0.u9644	It's also a reminder, unfortunately, because this is a replica. It's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here's my colleague Bulj, another breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-27-0.u9645	Thank you very much. He's been injured. colleague Bačić, 238. otherwise spokeswoman for the beauty of reality. You are in a coalition with Kerum where you compete with concessions, you are in a coalition with Bandic di the interests of Croatian citizens of Zagreb. You broke the Dalmatia in the coalition, you're in coalition with Vrdoljak around the wind power plants, you're in coalition with Mr. Kovacevic. Who are you in the coalition with, Mr. Bacic?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-27-0.u9646	Thank you very much. It's also clear. Comrade Škoro, please take a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-27-0.u9647	Thank you very much, Mr. President HS. My colleagues and colleagues, I request a break on behalf of the Homeland Movement for 10 minutes for further consultations on today's vote of these ten points. I have not participated, nor will I participate, because it protects me from my Christian education, and in particular I do not like it when I am objected to by the democracies in these appetizers who are brought up in this House and to hide their own incompetence, their own trade-insolence coalition, their heads are stuck in the sand, that's what they do, and they're making themselves up. The level of communication you use is at the level of small children and reminds me of a reader in which person A asks person B, do you have cheese, and person B responds no, but my brother plays the violin. It's the level of your communication. Your colleagues have already given you enough respect for everything that solves you, but what is important to say that the Homeland Movement will always be a constructive opposition. I'm the first man to publicly say that with your party president and your Prime Minister I simply don't want to cooperate, and his arrogant behavior and his style gives me the right and that's how it's going to stay. What is important, we will also support in this vote everything that is in favour of Croatia, the Croatian people, but we will not be supported and we will be abstentioned by the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Executive Procedure, because it is a cosmetic law, we need to make a complete solution, and you and I know it very well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-27-0.u9648	Thank you. It's okay to take a break. Is anyone else picking up? If I don't suggest we go to the vote so we don't leave the assembly room and the other rooms where the vote takes place.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-27-0.u9712	The next statement of view is on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club of Martina Grman Kizivat.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-27-0.u9713	I thank the vice president of HS. My colleagues and fellow MPs. Today, in my presentation, I will look back on an absurd situation that happened to a nine-member family from Zagreb. So in the earthquake of many of them, the house was torn down, until the earthquakes in the house lived the six - member family on the floor of a house of four young children and on the ground floor parents and sisters of fathers and children of the same age. After the earthquake, this house got a red mark, to tell you this is their house collapsed after the earthquake. So the house is definitely not for housing. On 14 May, the Government of the Republic of Croatia takes a decision on the financing of rents for residential buildings that are not for housing. After that information, this family goes into the collection of documents to be able to submit a request for a financed rent. Then their agony starts for the second time in only a few months, they start to collect documentation, and then they realize that their house is incorporated into the system under an orange label, which means they have no right to rent. They start calling all institutions to correct the error and to be able to submit the request in time. It's only 27.7 this year that they get confirmation that the house will still get a red tag. They're getting confirmation on 12.8th, and they're handing over 13.8. Then they got an answer to be a little patient because imagine the vacations were so easier to do. Once they have not even received a solution in 1.9, they start calling all institutions again and then they get the answer that there is a possibility that they will refuse a solution because imagine, their request is not submitted on time. So how could he have been committed at the time the system failed? Then in despair 17.9., they send an e-mail to Mr. Horvat to explain all the problems, and then on the 21st 10th, I ask the question, Agent Question to Minister Horvat, and imagine neither they nor I have answered the question so far. Of course, this family has not received a solution to be granted so that they have the right to rent or are refused so that they can seek or complain about that solution, status quo. And now that I, gentlemen of the HDZ and your coalition partner in the City of Zagreb, ask you, who works in the offices of the City of Zagreb and the Ministry when they are unable to correct the mistake? Who works in the cabinet of the minister when they are unable to respond to the mail or are unable to prepare an answer to the parliamentary question? And I'll bet they got paid for it. Sure. How can this four-member family with four underage children welcome a dignified Christmas when they feel forgotten and abandoned by the system? Would any of you live in a house like that? You have the opportunity, gentlemen, to correct this injustice, to make it as easy for them as Christmas, so that they can live with dignity as Prime Minister Plenkovic said when he announced the decision, he wanted all citizens to feel dignity and to give them a safe home and accommodation. You've got a chance to fix this, or you're gonna act like a Grinch, and you're not gonna do anything about it. Here, Mr. Sanader, this is a picture of a family home that's been destroyed, so see if it's for the apartment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-27-0.u9793	The next statement of view on behalf of Green-left bloc advocate Rada Boric's club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-27-0.u9794	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. There was an opposition to the violence from the assembly benches and from the speaker of the assembly yesterday. Two days ago, on the very day of fighting violence against the women of the Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Ante Sanader, he blamed the victim of Representative Hajdukovic for his violence. For Minister Ćorić, women who have reason to question in the interest of the public are determined, hysterical, i.e. They're talking hysterically. Vice-President of the Parliament in that, of course, he doesn't see anything controversial, said to pull the devil by the tail. Now, it's interesting whether he characterized it with the devils we've moved towards the tail, so we get such answers, we know that President Tudjman saw some other devils, or should he really recommend to HDZ then to invite an exorcist, friend of former HDZ parliamentary representative Damir Skara, to whom the trial for the rape and sexual harassment was continued just a few days ago. What's interesting is that the trial is closed to the public, that's what the prosecutor asked for, if the lawyer asked the victim to testify again. So the lawyer asked the victim to testify again, something on the trail of what we heard here, it's the victim again, and the rapist needs to be protected from the public. Often, women wonder why they didn't report abusers earlier, why they were spiced with beatings and humiliation for years by hiding bruises, why they didn't report sexual blackmail from their bosses. Women can't be trusted, it's enough to say that it's not enough to report one woman, to report two women, 14 women in the HUP reported the abuser. 14 women have been charged with criminally organising the takeover of HUP. So much for believing women. Yesterday, the prime minister shut up about the violence that is happening in this assembly. He boasted that on the International Day of Combating Violence Against Women, Care for Women Victims will be increased. We've seen what that concern looks like in the budget. We've seen what that concern looks like in the budget, and we know, even though it should have already been done that 6 counties don't have shelters for women. There aren't even 2 million kunas in the budget. So we heard that shelters will be financed from the EU. Well, that's inadmissible. We heard from the prime minister, too, and we were surprised because even this constituency board, this House, asked for a report on the national phone line. We thought she worked out how long she was promised. Yesterday we heard it was about to open. We've been looking here at a pandemic time to provide women with temporary accommodation while they're in self-insulation because no shelter from the few can receive them so as not to endanger other women or children. Here's the one, the amendment was rejected, and that's what the Prime Minister shut up about. We won't provide a pandemic vaccine with a budget like this. We will not provide a vaccine with this kind of speech in the assembly, from the pay phone, or from those who run these sessions.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-27-0.u9886	[[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 12.58 HOURS]] The first is the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns, distinguished representative Marko Milanović litre.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-27-0.u9887	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleagues, dear colleagues. There is a European country where, throughout history, political freedom, culture and even a name has been taken away, but despite all the troubles they have encountered, it has maintained a sense of pride and self-awareness. The people survived, preserved and cherished their history, culture, heritage, and customs. During his history, just like Croatia, the Ukrainian people experienced terrible injustices, destruction and planned systematic destruction, and the biggest tragedy of the Ukrainian people was commemorated tomorrow, traditionally last Saturday in November. The Holodomor took 7 million lives from the Ukrainians in the early 30s of the last century. During the 20th century, Ukrainians made of the naturally wealthy Ukraine an economic giant who fed almost the entire Soviet Union, just as Croatia did in Yugoslavia. After the arrival of Stalin to power, the national-aware Ukrainians suffered growing taxes, tax charges, restrictions and robbery of private property in favour of strengthening industrialisation and the development of socialism, and after resisting systematic robbery, were soon declared enemies. The Ukrainians are deprived of land, cattle, and more frequent food with goals to meet the state and export needs. In confiscation of property, comrades and friends, they used regular police, secret, even military. Many have resisted such decisions by state authorities, but resistance after a brief procedure has been radically extinguished and a desperate struggle has begun by the Ukrainian people against the repressive policies of the Socialist-Communist authorities. In 1929, the state press declared the majority of Ukrainian peasants and took away 73 rural households, and after 5 years they published a list of 200 thousand households that they had divided into 3 categories. The first category was anti-Soviet activists, who should be shot, imprisoned or expelled. The second category were wealthy exploiters who would lose all their property and be expelled. And the third group were politically harmless enemies of the state who had to be strictly subordinated to official authority. Tens of thousands of peasants were shot. 75 grand, so-called. State enemies were deported to some of the numerous labor camps in the east, where most of them died under inhuman conditions, and the peasant leadership was executed with the aim of preventing further unrest. But not all these monstrosities have stopped the resistance of many of the ethnically conscious Ukrainian peasants, who opposed forced collectiveisation. The following 1930, at least 850,000 peasants who were killed or released to the eastern labor camps were deported to the eastern work camps. But that wasn't enough for the authorities either. The Socialist-Communist repression continues. Private ownership and maintenance of family economies due to pressure and tax burdens have become unsustainable. Taxes for private farms were set up to be higher than income, and almost all the country was owned by the state in 1932. But that wasn't enough for the revolutionaries either, so they left the army and the police forcibly taking away food and increasing the mandatory yield of grain. After these horrors, Ukraine was gripped by mass hunger. People died daily on the streets, and the state came neatly for its own, or Ukrainian. Ukrainian villages have become mass graves, and peasants have been assigned so-called "majority." internal passports, and they were banned from fleeing to the Russian cities in order to seek food and help. Thousands of families were killed in fugitives in search of food and help. Generations and generations died in torment because of a distorted totalitarian system that, under the exception of equality, mutilated the Ukrainian people with its genocide. Holodomor is a civilizational disgrace that we need to be an example of where we are guided by socialism and communism policies, and it is a pity that in this honorable home on the left of our assembly we can often hear similar messages. In my personal name and on behalf of Croatian sovereigns, I would like to express my deep regret for friendly Ukraine and for all Ukrainians and the Ukrainian community in Croatia. Glory to Ukraine, God and Croats.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-27-0.u9950	Next, the next presentation of the position on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, the distinguished representative Nevenko Barbaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-27-0.u9951	I thank the esteemed vice president of HS, respected colleagues and colleagues. Allow me to dedicate these five minutes to the situation in BiH, and for the 25th anniversary of the Dayton Peace Agreement and the position of the Croatian people in BiH. The pension agreement was aimed at stopping conflicts, aimed at creating a functional state of three constituent nations, guaranteed respect for all human rights and freedoms, for all its citizens. The really mentioned agreement brought peace to the space of BiH, a key issue today, 25 years later, is that the peace agreement has brought us still with the promised, signed. The question of all questions is what is the situation of the Croatian people in BiH 25 years later, what are our perspectives, our future. Unfortunately, BiH is today a country in which little works, a country in which poverty, political instability, economic misery, the country from which everyone is evicted. There is no democratic or intellectual potential, no political will to build a state designed by the Dayton Peace Agreement, with the clear objectives of a functional democratic, economically prosperous country of three constituent peoples of BiH as part of Euro-Atlantic integration. I can't, and I don't want to deny the failures, the mistakes that we Croats have made over the past 20 years, believe me, it's not easy and it's easy to live politically to survive in so many... environments, the environment of so many opposing interests of the goals in the environment of the unhidden Serbian Separatism that all these years are openly talking about, about the environment of an even more dangerous hidden Bosniak unitarism that has only been talked about for the past few years. In this environment, it has certainly made a significant contribution to the international community that plays a significant role in BiH, has great powers. They're just international representatives playing... The Dayton Peace Accords and signed annexes certainly under the influence of the centre of political power, making the position of the Croatian people in BiH the most difficult by their decisions, complicated national relations, produced instability. I will remind some of these decisions, there are, above all, over 100 amendments to the Federation Constitution, so I will impose the decisions of the High Representative which created the way for one of the biggest problems today, which is the legitimacy of representation, so it is entirely contrary to the principles of the Dayton Peace Agreement. Such decisions have enabled more Bosniaks to break the electoral law by forming two Federation governments, the Alliance and platforms with Croats in these governments without more significant support from the Croatian electoral body, there is a phenomenon of the election of Croatian presidency members in the person Zeljko Komsic who does not represent anyone in BiH in three terms, least of all Croatian. Failure to accept such a scenario by Croats is sanctioned over 100 shifts from its political representatives with a ban on political action, is charged with spectacularly arresting and replacing a legitimately elected Croatian member of the presidency. Who else remembers the bandit incursion at Herzegovica Bank? Does anyone know where the money is from the same bank? Does anyone know how much damage the bank has done to Croatian companies, the economy in general? And yes, no one's given any answers all these years, no one's been convicted, no one's guilty, no one's apologized. That is not all, we are deprived of various other freedoms, such as the freedom of faith, the example of serving St. Masses in Sarajevo for victims of the Bleibur tragedy are being denied our right to Croatian language, an example of the Croatian channel in Croatian, etc. In a country where in the 2013 census, 97% of its citizens are declared to be members of one of the constituent people, and only 0.7% or only 30,000 of its citizens are not declared nationally, one man, one vote, advocated by the civil model of choice. The key question is, how do we proceed? How to kill separatism, unitarism? What middle road is that? What kind of BiH do the Croats want? Certainly as a functional and prosperous state, equal peoples of its citizens, a country modelled by Western democracy. We look forward to the almost consensus of the Croatian political scene, we look forward to the priority of all the priorities of Croatian foreign policy stable BiH, we look forward to the support of the Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic and these governments in general to Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, particularly. The Croatian people cannot, will not, must not give up BiH is the state of the Croatian people.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-27-0.u10079	The next presentation of the position on behalf of the Representatives' Club of the Independent Lists Bridge, the distinguished representative Marin Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-27-0.u10080	Dear Mr. Sanader, Vice President of HS, Mr. Bukarica and dear colleagues, thank you for being here with me so I can speak not only to the Croatian public, but also to a few of you here with me. What I would say is, let's do something for these Croatian police officers, in front of the Parliament, in front of the government, I look at them, really people are freezing there, they're cold, I haven't figured out whether they have heaters or not, but I can see they're freezing, so let's do something for those Croatian cops that are on the front line that protects, at the end and all of us here, so here, I think we can provide them with, if anything, then we can get them some little bit better gas heaters so people don't freeze. An unloved scene in HS. I must say that Mr. Sanader surprised me quite a bit because this is how he really looked to me as very, very polite and what happened to my colleague Hajdukovic made me deeply consternate, really, really upset, and then the comment of Mr. Second Vice President of the Parliament, Reiner, who mentioned some movement of devils for the tail and comment of Mr. Sanader who said you personally beat me up, think about your company, and not ours, I would even say that it made me a little angry. It made me angry because I don't like it when we show violence to anyone, and then somehow inside me, that river blood, is it, Armada, it just kind of blows everything up and somehow when someone shows violence to someone inside me, it's all kind of protective of me. I'm not going to talk about Marie Tomaševic who was beaten up by HDZ Mayor's wife, he was of course expelled from the party after he beat up his wife, I won't talk about Skara, they haven't ruled him out yet, is it, it's a secret trial so we'll see what happens with that. I'm not talking about the children of Djakic, one is convicted of attempted murder, and the other, the third and second threats, the first officers, that's probably family education. If you wanted to be sarcastic, you'd almost say Christian, is it, and you all know, or more or less, that I'm a practical Catholic, and then, especially, that Phariseeism, it's just as annoying. We don't need this, dear MPs, but we can still be much more over here, with a higher dose of co-operation, somehow it seems to me that, here, even the Prime Minister, at the end here, we've watched him smile, cheerfully gesture, wave his hands here, and we all know how demanding the situation is in our country. It would be good for him to show that courage in front of the banks, to stand in front of public notebooks. We're 30 years old, and today we've passed the law the 27th time of executive law, and I'd almost say a dead end of a chicken sting, as the people say. But, well, we supported it, two amendments are ours, if I'm not wrong, and I'm not wrong, prescribed, but in four years, when we're executive, all the good that HDZ proposes, all that good, we'll adopt it, we won't prescribe anything. As for Minister Coric, yesterday I spoke, ignoring the problem, this man lives in some parallel universe. So the citizens of Rijeka, Mariscina, are suffocating in the smell, he came, he promised, I've got everything right here right in front of me, March 28, 2019, we're going to shut down Mariscina, none of it. A promise, a mad joy, would say the people again. He ignores all the e-mails, all the calls, ignores the Ecocrisis headquarters of Mariscino, ignores everything, stands on his pedestal power, perhaps drunk with a weak, I don't know, we see a lot of haughtiness here from the ruling and thinking, no one can do anything to me. Neither the first nor the last to think so, so soon they went somewhere to the castle of history. Somehow, I don't want to play the bad prophet, but I think he might be the first to leave this government. So Minister Coric proposes outdated concepts of waste management. These are concepts from which the most modern EU countries flee. Denmark has brought a national consensus, their climate minister says we must go towards shutting down the burner, and then we see that my city of Rijeka, more specifically, is proposing that the river SDP build a county garbage burning plant in the water protection area of Sušačka Draga. I could say, but a passport. They will not be able to do so. We still need to take care of Croatian citizens, we need to think about the most modern concepts of waste management, we need to listen to the EU directive and finally act responsibly. And then the time will come when all things will sit down, as the song says, in the right place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-27-0.u10081	This is what we're done with taking a stand on. We continue on Tuesday, December 1st at 9.30 p.m. by taking a stand. Session interrupted at 13.26 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-27-0.u17555	We now move to the Final Proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Executive Act, the emergency procedure, first and second readings, P.Z.E. Number 69. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. A colleague of Hrelja's first call, and a colleague of Sacic's. Here's a colleague of the Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-27-0.u17556	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, so when the affairs of the court are given, they trust someone else that means giving jobs in a concession or you in a good Croatian language outsorcing certain jobs, so when something is given then it is given with confidence that someone can do so. Do we agree with that? Here these amendments to the laws and amendments today, I aim at Amendment 6. The club of HDZ representatives confirms one rule that must not live in this high house, and the rule is called one we speak, the other we think, and the third we work in terms of lawmaking. So if, if the interested public agreed, the profession agreed that public notebooks would distribute the accounts, then they agreed. The bill said that the agency would do so, and the amendment number 6 says that the implementations on the basis of a credible document will be shared by municipal courts by local jurisdiction, which means approximately that public notebooks will not be equally burdened throughout Croatia but that 80% of the implementation will continue to be resolved in the City of Zagreb. So we thought we'd back this bill because it's carrying with it good solutions. The only condition now is that the government rejects an amendment to the HDZ Club of Representatives, that is a condition that we support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-27-0.u17557	Thank you very much. Comrade Sacic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-27-0.u17558	We are looking for a break on behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns Club because the amendments to this law have unfortunately not respected one frantic fact cruel for many entrepreneurs, many citizens, many OPGs, and it consists of the fact that more than 600 citizens report in Croatia every year for the crimes of fraud in the economy, the abuse of trust in the economy, the many crimes of economic crime in connection with which they are required and are expected to judge and judge compensations in.../incomprehensible/... in property damage, compensation of property damage, in excess, unfortunately these laws are rewarded by such people, they use all the benefits for thousands and thousands of impoverished people the same thing that happened to them because of a series of unfavourable living circumstances, and professional thieves are using the same thing without giving them any kind of self-inflicted state that they will be uninfavourable. It's incomprehensible, inadmissible, stop that practice.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-27-0.u17559	Okay. Is anyone else picking up? If not, then I suggest we move on. Let's go with the amendments. 1st Amendment is the Committee on Legislatives and it is accepted, becoming an integral part of the law. 2. Amendment The Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives does not accept, so we must vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? 117 MPs and MPs voted, 41 for, 2 abstentions, 74 against, so the amendment did not go through. 3. Amendment by MP Katarina Peovic, the government does not accept, we must vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment number 4. The HDZ Representatives Club has been adopted and becomes an integral part of the law as well as the 5th Amendment of the Committee on Legislatives and the 6th Amendment of the HDZ Club, as well, the HDZ has also been adopted and becomes an integral part of the law. Seven. The SDP representative club has been withdrawn. 8. Green-left bloc representatives' club, the government doesn't accept it, so we have to vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. 9th Amendment The Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists The Government does not accept, please let's vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment number 10. Green-left bloc representatives' club, the government doesn't accept, please vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment No. 11. The Legislative Committee has been adopted and becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment No. 12. The Green-left bloc's club doesn't accept, so let's vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment No. 13. The club of the representatives of the independent lists of the government does not accept it. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. The 14th amendment of the HSLS and Reformers Club is not accepted by the government, so we must vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment No. 15. The club of the representatives of the independent lists of the government does not accept it. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment No. 16. Green-left bloc representatives' club is not accepted by the government. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment No. 17. The Legislative Committee has been adopted and becomes an integral part of the law, as well as Amendment No. 18. HDZ Representatives' Club. Amendment No. 19. The SDP representative club has been withdrawn. Amendment No. 20. The Green-left bloc's club doesn't accept, so I'm asking you to vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. The 21st Amendment of the IDS Representatives Club is not accepted by the government. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. The 22nd amendment of MP Marin Miletic is not accepted by the government. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. The 23rd amendment by MP Katarina Peovic is not accepted by the government. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment No. 24. The HDZ representative club has been accepted and becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment No. 25. The SDP representative club has been withdrawn. Amendment No. 26. The Green-left bloc's club does not accept, please let's vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment No. 27. The Legislative Committee has been adopted and becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment No. 28. Parliamentarian Katarina Peovic is not accepted by the government, we must vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment No. 29. The Legislative Committee has been adopted and becomes an integral part of the law. A Amendment No. The 30th representative, Katarina Peovic, does not accept the government, so let's vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment No. 31. The Legislative Committee has been adopted, becoming an integral part of the law. Amendment No. Thirty-two. The HSLS and Reformists club does not accept, so we have to vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. The 33rd amendment of the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives is not accepted by the government. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. The 34th Amendment of the Association of Representatives Bridges of Independent Lists is not accepted by the Government. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. The 35th Amendment of the SDP Representatives Club is not accepted by the Government. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. The 36th Amendment of the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives, the government does not accept it. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. The 37th Amendment of the SDP Advocacy Club is not accepted by the government. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. The 38th Amendment of the Legislative Committee has been adopted, becoming an integral part of the law. The 39th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the SDP was also accepted in an amended form by which the SDP Club agreed in writing and became an integral part of the law in amended form. Here's a colleague of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-27-0.u17560	Thank you, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. By accepting the amendments submitted by the SDP Representatives' Club to the Implementing Law proposal, space has been opened for the Government of the Republic of Croatia to decide on the introduction of moratoriums to be applied. We at the SDP Representatives' Club find this extremely important. Indicators speak of the crisis as both health and economical caused by Covid-19 disease not being stopped. The economic situation is unfortunately getting worse. This is why a large number of our citizens are not guilty of their own fault, but because of very objective circumstances, they are not able to meet their obligations. We believe that in such a situation, it is only reasonable, only morally, to reintroduce the moratorium to six months of performance. And use this period to prepare for one side of the intervention, let's also call them fire measures to help citizens and citizens of this country, while ensuring that we bring one serious, over- and systematic executive law that will ensure that the necessary executions can be carried out, such as those in cases of abstention or charges for the criminal part, but also those non-fair, as in the Raiffeisen savings or enforcement cases where one party is privileged, do not go to the burden of the perpetrators. We think this is reasonable and given the adoption of the amendments and the fact that the adoption of this law will allow the Government to introduce a moratorium, the SDP will vote in favour of the Implementing Law, but also invite the government of the Republic of Croatia to use the newly acquired on Monday [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] Power and introduce moratorium to the execution. [[Agreement: Thank you, colleague Grbin.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-27-0.u17561	Thank you. Is anyone else picking up? If not, then we'll go to the vote. I am voting on the final draft law amending and supplementing the Implementing Law. Please, let's vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that 125 MPs and MPs voted, 117 for, 7 abstentions and 1 against, so the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Executive Act was passed. The SDP representative club has proposed to the HS a conclusion which reads: The Government of the Republic of Croatia undertakes to propose legal solutions to HS within 90 days of the adoption of this conclusion to regulate the introduction of an inclusive allowance and personal assistance area for persons with disabilities and children with developmental difficulties. This proposal is not supported by the Government's proposal. Please, let's vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that 119 MPs and MPs, 43 for, 1 abstention, 75 against so that the conclusion of the club of representatives has not been reached. I welcome, of course, our colleagues and colleagues who are coming to us with a video connection and I want them to come back to us quickly. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation The HS's rules of procedure to make a decision on distrusting a member of the government require a semi-half majority of all MPs, therefore 76 votes. I am now voting on the Decision to show no confidence to Tomislav Ćorić, Minister of Economy and Sustainable Development in the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? I find that 127 MPs and MPs, 51 for, 76 against, so no decision has been taken to show no confidence in Tomislav Ćoric, Minister of Economy and Sustainable Development in the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-27-0.u18225	Your Honor, Mr. President... esteemed representatives and representatives of HS. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] The amendment is not accepted. Otherwise, amendments to the SDP and Green-left bloc representatives club are amendments of identical content. The Annual Defence Report is a document prescribed by the Law on Defence and submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to HS, which shows the activities of the Ministry of Defence and Armed Forces in the previous year, the state and development of defence capabilities, the implementation of defence preparations and the structures of defence resources and the achievement of key development projects and priorities. The proposed decision, i.e. Decisions already propose an obligation to draw up a report on the participation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in an operation or mission abroad which will be part of the annual defence report in the manner in which the Government of the Republic of Croatia has reported to the HS on the participation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in a specific mission or operation, and in the future annual defence report, we will report in detail to the Assembly. I underline this, in detail, to report to the Assembly on the participation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in a particular mission or operation abroad, as was said yesterday in the plenary session on these proposed decisions. The amendments are otherwise identical at all points and the explanation is somehow identical or I'm told I have to say identical content.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-27-0.u18226	Okay, thank you very much. Proposers will now be manifested. First it's the SDP's Club of Representatives, here's your colleague Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-27-0.u18227	Thank you, Your Honor. ... So here, you said the exact same content. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Anyway, what what SDP is looking for is actually going back to the previous decisions that they looked like, that's the first thing. Secondly, we at the SDP club hold that the Croatian public has the right to know the costs of financing international operations, which are the objectives of our departure to international operations and ultimately when we return the Armed Forces to the Republic of Croatia which are the effects of our departure to international missions. We now have a situation where the Croatian military has withdrawn from Afghanistan, for about five, six months now, by a decision from the Supreme Commander in which the government participated in the end, but the parliament has not received that report until today. I think these are the same things that we need to talk about, so it's kind of called some extraordinary thing that happened and I think we should get a report on that then spotted. After all, yesterday was the mention of the victims in international missions by individual representatives, so gentlemen when you mention the victims we all bear responsibility for it, briefly and clearly. We are the ones who raise our hands that the Armed Forces of the Republic go on missions, therefore we are the ones who bear part of the responsibility. There's nothing more natural than asking and a report about it post-festum, but given your exposure, I'm not going to report on each point separately, and I'm asking for a vote on all the amendments that we don't need a lift. But in any case, given your exposure, I believe that in the spirit of what we have discussed and on the board that this report will now really be extended because we are not interested in the form, we are interested in the content.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-27-0.u18228	Thank you very much. So, fellow Vidovic, if I understand correctly, you're asking us to vote every time, but you won't explain it anymore? ... All right, I get it. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Now we must vote on this amendment that the government does not accept. ... First we vote on SDP, wait, slowly, colleague Boric. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] First we vote on a SDP amendment that the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. We are now going to the second amendment, which the secretary of state has already explained, and will now be shown by counterpart Boris. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-27-0.u18229	... We even asked that it be a joint report, that we make it easier but that it is a special report, not that it is included in any detail in the defence report. [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]] Mr. Secretary of State has just said so far that we have done so, so far we have not done so, i.e. It was in the defence report, but there were also special reports. So, what we're looking for and what Mr. Vidovic said, that's what I was talking about yesterday, not only is it right that we know how the operation ended in Afghanistan which we don't know, so we'll wait for the additional report, we're interested in at least hearing together here once a year's report on peacekeeping missions, so we'll be satisfied and be united, not in a large report from the Ministry of Defence.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-27-0.u18230	Thank you very much. Then we're going to vote now and this amendment that the government doesn't accept either. Please, let's vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Now let's vote, I stress that Article 7(6) The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia states that a majority of the votes of all MPs are required to make a decision, i.e. 76. I am voting on the proposal for a Decision on the participation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in an operation to support KFOR's peace in Kosovo. Please, let's vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that 118 MPs and MPs, 112 for 5 abstentions and 1 against, have voted in favour of making a decision on the participation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in an operation to support KFOR's peace in Kosovo.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-27-0.u19183	I thank the Honorable President HS. Proposal for a decision on the discharge of a member and the selection of a member of the HS Legislative Committee, a member of the Committee on Legislatives, Vesna Nadj, is hereby authorised, and Domagoj Prica is elected as a member of the Committee on Legislatives. Proposal for a decision on the resolution and selection of a member of the European Affairs Committee HS, a member of the Committee on European Affairs Sabina Glasovac is hereby authorised, and Ivana Posavec Krivec is elected as a member of the Committee on European Affairs. Proposal for a decision on the selection of a member and termination of the term of office of a member of the Committee on Defence of the HS, a member of the Defence Committee shall be elected by Nikša Vukas on 14 October. Rajko Ostojic for his term of office. The proposal for a decision on the resolution and selection of a member of the Committee on Justice shall be resolved by a member of the Committee on Justice of the Court of Justice, and Domagoj Praca shall be elected as a member of the Committee on Justice. Proposal for a decision on the selection of a member and termination of the term of office of member of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the HS, Sanja Radolović is elected as a member of the Committee, since she has ceased to act here on 14 October. Rajko Ostojic for his term of office. Proposal for a decision on the resolution and selection of a member of the Committee on Gender Equality of the HS, a member of the Sabina Vosovac Board is hereby dismissed, and Vesna Nadj is elected as a member of the Committee on Gender Equality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-27-0.u19184	Thank you. I am opening the debate, closing the debate and voting on the proposal of the Committee's decisions on selection, appointment and administrative affairs, please vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that, unanimously, 112 of us have made decisions as proposed by the Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs. Thank you. Now we're going to take a 10 minute break, we're going to continue with the points as announced and the statement of position is at 13 o'clock. It's 13 o'clock and we're on Tuesday, you'll get a schedule after the session's over next week. Thank you very much. It's 10.58 o'clock.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-27-0.u19189	CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 11:16 AM - Final proposal of the Law on the Implementation of Regulation (EU) 2019/1150 of the EU on the promotion of justice and transparency for business users of Internet mediation services, second reading, P.Z.E. No. Nine. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 85. [[Speaker not enabled]] The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia in relation to Art. 172. 190 Rules of Procedure HS. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs and the Committee on Economic Affairs. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? With us is the State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy and the Sustainable Development of Mrs. Natasha Mikush Zigman, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-27-0.u19190	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President HS, esteemed MPs and MPs. Here, let me briefly present the draft final draft law implementing this regulation. It refers to promoting fairness and transparency for business users of Internet intervention services. The Regulation itself lays down general conditions for the use of internet intervention or Internet search engines offered to business users, legal entities and regulates mechanisms for the resolution of complaints and extrajudicial disputes. The regulation is, of course, directly applicable in the Croatian legal system, and this final proposal for a law that we are discussing today sets out the additional body which is responsible for the implementation of the regulation and the law and its tasks. In the current structure of the state administration, it is the Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development, and then the body responsible for the supervision of law enforcement is determined, i.e. the State Inspectorate and Violation Provisions for the act against the law or regulations, which are followed by the State Inspectorate in the course of the infringement, or by the competent courts in the event of a lawsuit. The purpose of the Regulation and of the law is to contribute to the proper functioning of the internal market in such a way as to prescribe and, of course, monitor the business of rules that ensure that business users or private entities using Internet-based services enjoy proper transparency and the possibility of effective legal protection, and therefore to those business entities that provide such a type of service. The Regulation applies to online intervention services used by business users residing or staying in the EU, offering their goods or services to European consumers through internet platforms. For such contractual relations, relationship providers, Internet platform service providers often have greater negotiating power, which then enables them to act unilaterally in a way that could be unfair or harmful to the legitimate interests of their business users. For example. those in such business relations may impose certain practices on business users using Internet platforms or search engines which deviate from good business behaviour or which are contrary to the principle of fair business. And it is this regulation that regulates such potential difficulties in the economy of Internet platforms. This implementing law is therefore an obligation that we have in terms of the implementation of the acquis, and in the end I would just like to point out that this legislative initiative is of crucial importance for the protection of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises as the first users of online media services and it guarantees effective and fair competition. In the final draft of the law, the Committee's proposals have been incorporated and I hope you will support this final proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-27-0.u19191	You can stay, you have one replica, I'm sorry the secretary of state has one replica of the lady. Petyr, not two, two replicas, first Mrs. Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-27-0.u19192	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Ma'am. State Secretary, you said that the aim of this law is to ensure fair and transparent treatment of Internet platforms against business users. It happens that these platforms impose unfair directions, which actually confronts users with problems. Would you be able to tell us a little more in detail what practices these practices are, and what do small and medium-sized entrepreneurs face when it comes to such unfair practices? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-27-0.u19193	Thank you. Here's the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-27-0.u19194	Thank you, well-respected representative Petyr. So here's an example of what might be the most vivid explanation of what might be done, noting that our business users or private entities generally did not have such difficulties. So most of these cases, or cases that ended up in court, have occurred in other EU Member States. But as an example here, they can point out business users such as Dezzer or Spotify, so companies that through innovative business models provided music listening services to consumers or via internet platforms, Apple, Facebook, Amazon, so depending on who they had their business relationship with and when, when the very number of consumers who used such services via internet platforms increased, they wanted to change the contractual relationship in a way to charge a higher fee for their services or to prevent the use of the platform. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-27-0.u19195	Thank you very much. Mrs. Devereaux. Danica Baričević.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-27-0.u19196	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, you have said that this legislative framework will protect and guarantee fair and efficient competition, increase security and transparency, ensure a legal protection mechanism, which will certainly help small businesses in particular to participate in the digital economy as much as possible. I wonder if you will continuously monitor the development of new opportunities in the digital economy and analyse the practices of internet platforms in order to take new measures and new legislative proposals where necessary? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-27-0.u19197	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-27-0.u19198	Thank you very much for your question. Of course, that's understood. We, as the ministry responsible for monitoring services among other things and Internet intervention for the digital economy, have an obligation and this law requires that we monitor what is happening on the market and then take certain steps to prevent bad practices.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-27-0.u19199	Thank you very much. No more replicas, you can go to your place. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The first is Mr. Hrvoje Zekanovic. He's gone. He's losing his right. The second is Mr. Zarko Tušek in front of the Representatives' Club, Željko Pavić excuse me, in front of the SDP Representatives' Club, I apologize. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-27-0.u19200	The Honorable Chairman. My fellow MPs, my fellow MPs. We have yet another law to ensure the implementation of the EU Parliament's regulation, in this case it is a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on promoting justice and transparency for business users of Internet-mediated services. We all know that online intervention services and Internet search engines usually have a global level of use, so this said Parliament regulation defines that the regulation should apply to providers of those services established in the Member State, but would also refer to service providers established outside the EU if two conditions are met at the same time, that is. The first is that business users or corporate users of websites should be established in the Union, and the second is that business users or corporate users of websites should... offer their goods or services to consumers located in the Union and for at least one part of the transactions, there is no definition of which part of the transactions. In order to determine whether business users or corporate users of web sites of goods or services are offered to consumers located in the Union, it is necessary to determine whether business users or corporate users of websites are focusing their activities on consumers located in one or more Member States. Therefore, this Regulation should not apply if commercially useful or corporate internet users do not have a centre in the Union or if they are established in the Union, but they use Internet business services or intermediation or Internet search engines to offer goods or services exclusively to consumers located outside the Union or non-users. This is actually the answer to the question of a colleague who just asked a question about the problem, which actually means that the regulation is designed to define and control the behaviour of Internet intermediaries on the internet market within the EU. The objective is to establish a targeted set of mandatory rules and to ensure fair, predictable, sustainable and reliable Internet business environment in the internal market, in particular to business users of internet intervention services, should provide adequate transparency and effective legal protection opportunities throughout the Union in order to facilitate cross-border business in the Union, thereby improving the proper functioning of the internal market. For companies that have opted for electronic business, I stress the importance of electricity business, it is particularly important to know the rules of work and the business of Internet intermediaries and Internet search engines and to make sure that they do not happen that for any reason they are cut off when they are using the services offered, since online media services are very important for enabling entrepreneurship and new business models, trade and innovation, and can improve consumer well-being and are increasingly used in both the public and private sectors. By adopting this law, except as we will try to define the rules of conduct, I stress that we will also define the rules of conduct and of internet intermediaries and Internet search engines as well as the competent authority for the implementation of the regulation, and we will also define the tasks that this body deals with which one of the most important tasks is to encourage intermediaries to develop codes of conduct to contribute to the proper application of the regulation by taking into account the specific features of the different sectors in which internet mediation services are provided. Since it is clear that it is not the same procedure and the same result for the different sectors of Internet mediation. This and other tasks that we define by law will be able to be carried out with a quality and qualified workforce that well knows the area of electronic business, especially the area of intermediation and the search engine. What's the problem? By law, we will define that inspection supervision of the implementation of the regulation and this law is carried out by officials of the authorities of the State Administration responsible for the tasks of state inspection which carry out inspection tasks in the area of trade, services and consumer protection. So these are people who have not done these jobs so far and will have to be further trained and introduced to new platforms, new technologies and actually completely new tools. This job is not simple and requires special knowledge and skills, which means that existing inspectors will need to be specially trained and continuously monitored for changes in this area that are extremely dynamic and very intensively exploiting new IT technologies. It is therefore important to note that the legislator made a quality decision when he accepted the proposal of the Committee on the Economy to be in Article. 4. define that Internet-mediated service providers are obliged to allow the officials of the State Administration Authority responsible for inspection of business data, business documentation and associated computer equipment and devices as well as software mechanisms in connection with the obligations signed by this law and regulation. It should also be noted that since the regulation does not so affect national rules which, in accordance with Union law, prohibit or sanction simple treatment or unfair... there is a possibility that we may need some more of the laws in recent times to further define things in order to make things clearer and more transparent for the users who will use intermediaries and search engines. This is all in order to enable business operators who are willing and willing to move to electronic business as easily as possible to use this business environment, to provide them with a fair, predictable, sustainable and reliable Internet business environment. In view of the damages and losses that business entities may suffer if the Internet intermediary or the applicant does not work in accordance with good business practice, the prescribed fines may not be high enough, but we hope that these fines will also be high enough to give consent in one part of the law and in the other part of the coercion of the service providers not to violate the provisions of the regulation and of this law. The SDP club will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-27-0.u19201	Thank you, too. Now it is Mr. Zarko Tušek who will speak on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-27-0.u19202	Dear Vice President HS, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here I will try to minimise this exposure to the club, and I am also addressing as chairman of the Committee on Economy since we have already discussed this together on the board. In principle, we can say that the law that is ahead of us is more technical because, in fact, through the determination of the implementing and supervisory bodies, it ensures the implementation of the regulation that we talked about from 2019. What I would like to point out as something that is truly commendable, and my colleague Pavić said about it, is that the debate on the Committee on the Economy has been respected, that the proposal of a respected representative of my colleague Zurovec has been included in the legal text to be included in the article. 2.St. 2. adds that officials of the State Administration's authority responsible for inspection tasks during the surveillance of Internet-mediated service providers also have the opportunity to see into software mechanisms. It is also important to propose to be in art. 5th century 1st of the 1st century f provider of internet media provisions more precise time-limit for handling, so instead of a reasonable deadline prescribed for about 30 days, in any case after a very high-quality and constructive debate it is nice to see that in the second reading, the Resort Ministry has respected the arguments of parliamentary representatives. It is clear, then, that the existing or envisaged measures by Member States do not cover a whole series of potentially harmful commercial practices, so the essence of the regulation is, as we have already had the opportunity to hear transparency, clear and accessible operating conditions, justice and effective legal protection of contractual stakeholders, and, above all, it is crucial for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises as the first users of these services. It is also important to highlight the consumer's position because, generally, the whole system offers security, predictability and a better and better quality level of service if it is more orderly and the consumer. So, in conclusion, I think that this establishment of uniform and clear rules will improve the functioning of the entire digital market, and generally in the situation where we are in the covid crisis, we see that this market also has a certain expansion and enables people to see that some of the things they may have tried to implement in their lives conventionally are simply forced into digital platforms, to use digital platforms, so in this sense any predictability, transparency of these platforms is in the interest of both business entities and those who use them, and these are primarily consumers. Thank you very much for the approved proposals and, of course, the HDZ Club will support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-27-0.u19203	Thank you, too. Now, Mr. Willy Matula will perform in front of the Green-Left Block Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-27-0.u19204	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State Mikush Zigman. My colleagues and colleagues. Very briefly, we have looked at the law and, in fact, it is about harmonising with this European provision of the EU, and there is actually no great possibility of harmonisation, only we see that it is very important, and that is the question of how to determine penalties in this case, in the event of violations of this Regulation. We think that 50 to 100,000 kuna is a penalty that for the world's great providers is nothing, and for one of ours who has just begun to do this job of providing services and in case even some mistake occurred to him, a fine of 50 to 100 thousand kunas can completely destroy it. Now, the question is whether it's in our best interest. So we also have that in this article. 5, it's a question of whether in time he has given something up, you know what kind of misunderstandings all these things can come especially if we're not careful about someone who is smaller, and the Amazon who has just stepped in and honored us with its presence, we know the experience of other stores around the world with these great providers and what they.../incomprehensible/... they have absolutely nothing to pay for this fine, later we look at this from 10 to 30 thousand kuna, a fine of 20 to 50, this, for a natural person, well, it's for a natural person, it's for a craftsman or for someone who, let's take into account, wrong, we think it's too far-reaching. So our proposal is that the penalty is actually defined in terms of 1% of the traffic that the Internet-mediated service provider achieves from the administration of an online platform in the previous financial year and we think that this is one of the solutions, with such a proposal having both Romania and as far as we can see, this has passed. Now just the most respected secretary of state, I'd just like to ask this question. He says this, proposals and opinions given on the bill, which the proposer did not accept by reason. Here, in this 6th alley, he says, there were no proposals, no remarks or opinions on the bill that the applicant did not adopt. The other comments and proposals made during the parliamentary debate were not accepted since they do not relate to the scope of the draft law. We do not understand how this happened since our colleague Glavasevic from the green-left club presented this proposal on proportionality and we will each submit an amendment in this regard. I'm saying, we're not clear why his proposal, how do you review it, please the recording, you'll see in any case that colleague Glavasevic submitted this proposal. I say we make the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-27-0.u19205	Please, if you want to submit an amendment, you must run because until the debate is over. And they put up with... You've been through this already, okay. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Mr. Ante Bacic begins with individual debates. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-27-0.u19206	Thank you, dear vice president of HS, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. To this, it is important to highlight several segments of this brief law on the implementation of the regulation itself. Normally, with this law we are implementing the Regulation on the promotion of justice and transparency for business users of online media services and in our, normal, legislative framework. What my colleague used to say before me is important here to implement this Regulation, but it is also good that this second item that each member will prescribe and adapt both sanctions and certain parts of the regulation to his business and to his market model in his country. I mean, when we look at and when we go through the entire regulation, it's absolutely more useful for the users themselves who are similar to Internet business, who, through Internet search engines and websites, simply place their products and services, see the shift themselves, because the increase in the number of transactions is exactly when they are offered goods and services on the Internet. I failed to find statistics, this can be done, and the secretary of state tells us if he accidentally has data, and this is also related to the number of users in the Republic of Croatia who exclusively operate online. It's interesting that information we've often heard in HS, which is the number of open companies and companies that don't have employees, and they make a certain profit and some traffic, so here, it's interesting and it's important to explore the statistics on how many of these companies were founded and which exclusively operate online. We see data on EU and here, according to the Eurobarometer survey that 42% of this applies to small and medium-sized enterprises at EU level, and that this Regulation is exactly written because exactly 50% of these small and micro and medium-sized entrepreneurs have encountered a number of problems dealing with exactly such internet platforms through which they offer certain products. The normal this Regulation acts exclusively in most cases on the providers of these services themselves, namely to raise one level of transparency and normal, large providers, which are here and colleagues before me mentioned, from Amazon, Google, on their own side, having considerable advantages by comparing them with small and micro and medium-sized entrepreneurs who are these goods and services through them, so that normally and negotiated when they enter into a relationship with a particular company, they can act in a way that they want and can definitely put them in an unfavourable position of such a company, but here, we have seen recently that other emphasis when we talk about online business, and these are Internet fraud itself, but also data protection, that famous GDPR that every time we do something on the Internet we meet and approve Internet search engines, but we have seen in recent times and problems just transferring databases between these large companies that simply trade with our data. A lot of these databases become public, publicly available, there's identity theft. You yourself have probably noticed on social networks both on Facebook and Instagram when you don't give God this Googled product to immediately release ads for the same. It is all kind of a gray area that we are currently struggling with, but here and this regulation is one way of combating and preventing exactly such unwanted situations in which our consumers are located, but normally primarily here micro, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, who, in order not to be, would not be able to operate online in the Republic of Croatia, but would not even be able to place their products in the world, especially when now, when we now look at both the pandemic and the coronary virus as much of that business and trade has just switched to the Internet itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-27-0.u19207	Thank you too, stay, stay, have more replicas. The first replica was asked for by Mrs. Devereaux. Baricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-27-0.u19208	Here's a colleague, Ante Bačić, you said that almost half of the smaller and medium-sized enterprises, according to the Eurobarometer survey, have said that internet markets are being used to sell their products and services, and consumers have indeed accepted internet-mediated intervention services, but on the other hand, all of these also bear the challenges that need to be addressed in order to ensure their legal certainty, as well as a sustainable and predictable business environment. Therefore, the impact assessment carried out by the European Commission has shown that 50% of European companies operating on internet platforms are really facing problems, so I am interested in whether you consider this law to be good and essential in particular for the protection of micro and small and medium-sized enterprises, as well as the creation of a legislative framework to guarantee fair and effective competition. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-27-0.u19209	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-27-0.u19210	Thank you, Vice President. Thank you, colleague Baricevic, for this replica. As you have mentioned yourself, and I believe from personal experience like this small and medium-sized entrepreneur, we see statistics on rising transactions,... The Republic of Croatia, unfortunately, we had through the explanation of this law. These regulations are exclusively research related to the Eurobarometer and data related at EU level, but we know that the increase in transactions is also in the Republic of Croatia. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] This Regulation will definitely help and protect the very small and medium-sized entrepreneurs because the providers of these services through which they place their goods and services often know to be unfair and harmful. We have also seen at EU level, but also at the world level how many penalties are being turned and how often these search engines have been unfair and intransparent and have not treated these particular entrepreneurs well, so This is exactly the kind of regulation that will change that. [[Intruder: Thank you, time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-27-0.u19211	Thank you. Mr Ivan Domagoj Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-27-0.u19212	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague Bacic, I agree with what you've been saying. I would go one step further, so I would say that the time has come for us to talk openly and that these largest companies are not actually paying taxes in the vast majority of countries, especially across the EU to smaller countries as it is, such as Croatia. I think it's a matter of fundamental equality towards all entrepreneurs in that segment of business. So, I think that the very same companies have the answer to the question of their activities in certain countries, so I don't think it's something that can't be solved and that the time has come to discuss this seriously in the EU and that there is really a way for all these companies to calculate and pay tax for the countries in which they operate. One more sentence, which is the same in some way in that context, I think that from the time of stand oil and, and somewhere in the end of the 19th century, and the issue of oil, we have not seen such monopolization in certain segments, and I think that the EU should also, and our country should, take account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-27-0.u19213	Thank you. Here's the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-27-0.u19214	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Milosevic, I agree completely with you. It is definitely the time when we see exactly the progress and speed of the development of the new technology market itself, when we see the number of services that foreign companies come to the Republic of Croatia and take up very important segment of our market, not to mention from transport to, to the very sale of goods and services, and that injustice is also related to the payment and obligation of tax in the country where certain income is made or how it often occurs in the queen of where the company itself is registered and registered. The initial wave of reckonings with these large companies was that or through the EU collectively punishable in a particular segment, but I think if they transferred the tax liability to individual members, I think they would solve much, much better and only control the market.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-27-0.u19215	Thank you. Mr. Habian.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-27-0.u19216	Thank you very much. Here's a respected colleague like you said in your debate, and it's been repeated several times, almost half of small and medium-sized companies actually use the Internet market for the placement of their goods and services. It is certain that during the coronary virus and their number will increase precisely in this panedemia. This would actually join what you said yourself that when we hear from the secretary of state what the statistics are and what the data is and the market for the Republic of Croatia. What I would really like to point out is that this implementation of the regulation into Croatian legislation will in some way improve and restore or increase consumer confidence right in the economy of internet platforms. So it's one thing to have consumers and providers, so services or manufacturers in a real world, and the other thing is when it's developing in a virtual world, which is actually going to be more and more and more in the next period. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-27-0.u19217	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-27-0.u19218	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Habib, I agree with you as well. When we look at the statistics of the last five years. I think in the last term there were, we were just discussing the protection of personal data, especially on the internet how radically this one spreads only the markets, but also as much as the skeptics were towards, by, and the consumers, but normal and entrepreneurs when they went out on, on the internet market, that is. when they switched to online business. Today, when we look at 2020, when we see a shift of one significant in short time, generally related to digitisation, not only to trade but to digitalisation and public administration, I think it will be a good indicator in the coming years how much our citizens have adapted and transferred to, to the digital environment and how simplified and normally certain services are either that and trade, whether or not some public services are transferred and taken directly from the internet, so these regulations are also very important to protect ourselves from any malversions in that field.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-27-0.u19219	Mrs. Devereaux. Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-27-0.u19220	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague of Bačić, the Internet is a treasure of interesting data with even more interesting reductions as we slide our fingers on a mobile or tablet, we certainly do not think about the dangers lurking behind the walls on a store line. Since there is a good and bad side in all things, the Internet has its own shortcomings, charged, undelivered, delivered a completely different product, stolen credit card or identity. It's all just sometimes the dangers that await us in the spaces behind the screen. I believe that citizens need to be given stronger protection, just as this law provides for stronger protection for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-27-0.u19221	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-27-0.u19222	Thank you, Vice President. Thank you, colleague Petir, for this replica and for yourself when you were a member of the European Parliament here we can also see on the web about Internet fraud and a clear form and all, all the clear behaviours in terms of Internet fraud, but also everything that the European Parliament and the European Commission have brought from regulations and guidance on how to deal with online business. I think in the last decade, that we've made very much of this progress, that it's now a normal and secure form of business, if it weren't for that kind of skepticism among citizens would be much bigger. This Regulation focuses mainly on and exclusively on small and medium-sized entrepreneurs and on the protection of them and not to be in an unequal position. But I agree with you absolutely when we are discussing this, we must always keep the consumer in mind, is the end consumer ultimately paying for any kind of fraud, especially on the Internet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-27-0.u19223	Thank you. Vice President Skoro.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-27-0.u19224	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleague, you have praised the law. In fact, there's a devil in the Internet space. One anomaly started with the appearance of Nepster 20 years ago. And there's been a lot of bad things happening on that Internet. Users are not protected in quality. You mentioned the identity theft. In these last 20 years. They used mostly time to get equipment and not standardized, so they can't communicate with each other at all, every hospital has a different software. But that identity theft, I don't know if you know, in Heinzel there's an office where they work, you know how many people steal identities on the Internet, one. One man works. [[Clip incursion: in the MUP]] I was the other day because they stole my identity and some of my colleagues several times, so now I'm interested in this law that you praised. Tell me and tell the Croatian public will it really be after the adoption of that law in that space here and will we have better quality protection and may we have more people to protect who will work on it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-27-0.u19225	... [[Speaker not enabled]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-27-0.u19226	Thank you, Vice President. Thank you, fellow Skoro, for this replica. I didn't understand, you said there's only one person working in the I.P., because I know there's a whole cybercrime department in the I.P., now that they're divided into general cybercrime, so one person just for identity theft, it's a little, it's kind of surprising. I believe it will be the adoption of a new law. These regulations and implementations themselves, that there will be a better situation in the Republic of Croatia. But I repeat, there was no emphasis here, and this regulation does not stress only the consumer, it is more likely to treat the micro and medium-sized entrepreneur himself and his relationship with this and that internet search engine with which he makes a certain contract, but I think this will be definitely a step towards the protection and consumer, but I agree with you and the transfer itself to the database between these large search engines brings today a big problem about and stealing the identity and all malversions on the Internet, but I believe this is a step forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-27-0.u19227	Thank you. And the last replica of Mrs. Bliss.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-27-0.u19228	Thank you, Vice President. Here's a colleague I've been listening to, and we can agree with everything you've said. So this regulation is exclusively for the bitumi or business of that business partner. However, more and more you yourself pointed out some business so-called business. clean horse, so those who deal only on the line of business. This Regulation therefore exclusively applies to business users and there have been talks in replicas of both private users and consumers and can be agreed that companies will receive this regulation a new market, consumers will have a bigger choice, and it is necessary to know exactly what the parameters on which they are actually and determine the ranking in search results. And about this last replica, and I think this is a good start, and we're going to have to bring a series of laws that actually talk about e-business, about digitization in the future. Because that's our future. [[Intruder: Thank you]] I'm glad it wasn't in Croatia business users, but. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-27-0.u19229	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-27-0.u19230	Thank you, Vice President. Thank you, colleague Blažević, for the replica. An important, important segment of this law and this Regulation at the very beginning of Article 1(1) of the Treaty. The 15th Regulation provides that each Member State shall ensure the application and effective implementation of this Regulation and that which is relevant, and that is no. 2. Member States shall lay down a rule on the measures to be applied to the infringement of this Regulation and shall ensure that they are implemented. So it's finally again when we implement this regulation through this law into our legislation on the Republic of Croatia is how it will apply. Here's what my colleague asked me before how many people and officials and people are going to put in order to follow the process of applying this regulation to protect our micro and small and medium-sized enterprises tomorrow, so that they have better contracts with these great seekers, and ultimately to protect our final consumers. Citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-27-0.u19231	Thank you, Mr. Bacic, no more replicas, thank you. And the next individual debate is from Mrs. Katarina Peović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-27-0.u19232	Good afternoon, everyone. First of all, I am glad that I have heard these announcements of what I am interested in here in this debate, which is an announcement that tax reform means taxing large digital giants as well as a bill that will come from the Workers' Front, so I immediately announce this by modeling the same or similar proposal in Slovenia that has given left over there to the great digital taxation. We know it's here in this law of something else. So, on taxation, on promoting justice and transparency for business users of Internet business services. Examples of meanings such as Deezer and Spotify, which are in some subordinate position compared to Amazon and Google, I'm afraid there won't often be a case of protecting such users in our country. So we just don't have a company like that. But anyway, to protect the small from the big ones, so to speak. Promoting justice and transparency is one thing. However, in addition to respecting this competition as the basis of this law, tax legislation should be harmonised which has not adapted to some of the fundamental changes that have occurred. So we have the basic principles of taxing businesses in EU countries, and today, in fact, on business practices from the 20th century on the one hand, and in the early 20th century. On the one hand, they are based on the principle that profits should be taxed where value is generated, and on the other hand, the place of creation of the value of a particular company and thus the right of the state to tax the profits of that company is linked to the physical presence in a particular country. It is therefore taxed only if they are present in the form of a business unit. Here we had the Foreign Law the other day, where the Digital Nomads Regulation was passed, which doesn't mean that we've got the companies registered, but they'll be allowed here, so they'll get permission to work. There were objections, my point was that they should be taxed. The same thing means no matter what they don't have physically registered with us, they will use all the infrastructure that exists in Croatia. And therefore, if we have the same conditions, we should have the same obligations, and according to the material possibilities that it stands in our Constitution, those who have more should contribute more, those who have less should be able to contribute less. In this sense, a dangerous imbalance is introduced here. Such arrangements shall not take into account the global reach of digital activities where the physical presence in the form of a business unit is no longer necessary for the provision of digital services. Otherwise, it is also an initiative coming from the European Commission. It has therefore been observed that large digital companies such as Apple, Facebook, Amazon, Google and AiRbnb are using outdated legal standards to avoid paying taxes. Although operating in all Member States of the European Union, profits are mainly reported only in Member States with low tax rates, such as Ireland or Luxembourg, and thus avoid paying taxes in countries where income and profits have been generated. For example, Apple paid only 0.7% of the income tax in the European Union between 2015 and 2017. According to a survey by the members of the European Parliament's Financial Crimes Committee and tax evasion of 2018, it has been found that the so-called large so-called Digital giants really manage to avoid paying taxes. There is a similar situation in Croatia, so I think it would be necessary, apart from this regulation, which I think is more or less a alignment with the European acquis and which will not greatly improve or affect the conditions in which people in Croatia live, operate in Croatia, earn money in Croatia. For example, this would be one provision that would certainly change that inequality and I'm glad to hear that that's what I'm thinking about. Good afternoon, everyone. First of all, I am glad that I have heard these announcements of what I am interested in here in this debate, which is an announcement that tax reform means taxing large digital giants as well as a bill that will come from the Workers' Front, so I immediately announce this by modeling the same or similar proposal in Slovenia that has given left over there to the great digital taxation. We know it's here in this law of something else. So, on taxation, on promoting justice and transparency for business users of Internet business services. Examples of meanings such as Deezer and Spotify, which are in some subordinate position compared to Amazon and Google, I'm afraid there won't often be a case of protecting such users in our country. So we just don't have a company like that. But anyway, to protect the small from the big ones, so to speak. Promoting justice and transparency is one thing. However, in addition to respecting this competition as the basis of this law, tax legislation should be harmonised which has not adapted to some of the fundamental changes that have occurred. So we have the basic principles of taxing businesses in EU countries, and today, in fact, on business practices from the 20th century on the one hand, and in the early 20th century. On the one hand, they are based on the principle that profits should be taxed where value is generated, and on the other hand, the place of creation of the value of a particular company and thus the right of the state to tax the profits of that company is linked to the physical presence in a particular country. It is therefore taxed only if they are present in the form of a business unit. Here we had the Foreign Law the other day, where the Digital Nomads Regulation was passed, which doesn't mean that we've got the companies registered, but they'll be allowed here, so they'll get permission to work. There were objections, my point was that they should be taxed. The same thing means no matter what they don't have physically registered with us, they will use all the infrastructure that exists in Croatia. And therefore, if we have the same conditions, we should have the same obligations, and according to the material possibilities that it stands in our Constitution, those who have more should contribute more, those who have less should be able to contribute less. In this sense, a dangerous imbalance is introduced here. Such arrangements shall not take into account the global reach of digital activities where the physical presence in the form of a business unit is no longer necessary for the provision of digital services. Otherwise, it is also an initiative coming from the European Commission. It has therefore been observed that large digital companies such as Apple, Facebook, Amazon, Google and AiRbnb are using outdated legal standards to avoid paying taxes. Although operating in all Member States of the European Union, profits are mainly reported only in Member States with low tax rates, such as Ireland or Luxembourg, and thus avoid paying taxes in countries where income and profits have been generated. For example, Apple paid only 0.7% of the income tax in the European Union between 2015 and 2017. According to a survey by the members of the European Parliament's Financial Crimes Committee and tax evasion of 2018, it has been found that the so-called large so-called Digital giants really manage to avoid paying taxes. There is a similar situation in Croatia, so I think it would be necessary, apart from this regulation, which I think is more or less a alignment with the European acquis and which will not greatly improve or affect the conditions in which people in Croatia live, operate in Croatia, earn money in Croatia. For example, this would be one provision that would certainly change that inequality and I'm glad to hear that that's what I'm thinking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-27-0.u19234	Stay. Thank you. The first line is Mr. Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-27-0.u19235	I just want to draw attention to the fact that in this world, there's a lot of things going on digitally, so here's the moment if you're looking at hardware producers who actually have a center in America, have a centre in Japan, have a centre in China all of a sudden become European producers of hardware, so they actually avoid paying taxes and actually have free traffic actually with their goods within the European Union on one hand. On the other hand, I think we can determine how to pay taxes in the Republic of Croatia without some major problems as we find for paying VAT if there is a certain amount of traffic more than... euros, then VAT is paid at our rate. And I would also like to point out that actually the purpose of this law is primarily to protect our entrepreneurs who have decided to use these services on the Internet, because look on the other hand we have, let's say, one AliExpress who in one day called Black, or something like that has a $53 billion turnover.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-27-0.u19236	Thank you. Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-27-0.u19237	Yes, irregular business conditions I agree with. What should be the basic criterion in taxation is the amount of income and it is certainly possible to detect. In any case, those who earn more should also contribute more to the public sphere and in terms of taxes. And I think what is very often a problem in this House is that this European acquis is being painted almost automatically when it comes to the laws that come from the European Union, and that it rarely comes to us with an initiative that would benefit the social majority in Croatia and that would really be on the trail of the protection of that social majority, and it is not necessary for it to be a simple copy of the European acquis.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-27-0.u19238	Thank you. The second and last replica of Mrs. Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-27-0.u19239	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You also talked about digital nomads. I ran into an article that actually says that Croatia has become the most desirable destination for digital nomads. Because of their beauty, they called it an idyllic land that every digital nomad must visit. We who live here are probably not even aware enough of the potential Croatia has and how wonderful a destination with lots, lots of potentials is in reality. So I'd like to hear your comment because I think this government move towards digital nomads is welcome and can bring one new added value. What exactly are you proposing in this segment, or what are you not satisfied with?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-27-0.u19240	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-27-0.u19241	So what's the problem with digital nomads, yeah, it's nice that we're a pleasant destination for digital nomads, and that's where we have to emphasize who digital nomads are. So these are residents of the meaning of third countries that means not the EU countries. First of all, we talk about Americans who come to Croatia and who are working to promote Croatia's tourism promotion, I agree with that. But what's the problem is that when rich Americans come to Croatia we give them permission and they work here. They don't pay taxes at the same time. They raise the price of real estate very often because it's pretty cheap for them to rent an apartment or a house here, and at the same time it doesn't contribute to our economy at all. The very promotion of the beauty of ours and especially in the Covid crisis will be a pretty bad perspective if we're going to set things up like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-27-0.u19242	Thank you. You don't have any more replicas. Thank you very much. And now State Secretary Natasha Mikush Zigman will have a statement for the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-27-0.u19243	Thank you very much. Here, on behalf of the promoter, I would like to thank you for everything presented during the debate and, in fact, very briefly, answer the issue of statistics that was raised in the debate. So how many of our business users or businesses actually use Internet platforms. According to the data that we have 17.1% of small and medium-sized enterprises offer online sales, and this is mainly about combined service and sales. So I'm saying, at the same time, they offer that classic form of selling and selling via the Internet. Perhaps here is an interesting information to point out that 45% of our consumers also buy via the Internet. So that's a little bit broader now, but that's where the statistics move. For the platforms themselves, we do not have statistics, given that they have not been regulated normably so far, and this is exactly what we are doing right now is trying to regulate this area and that things are defined legal certainty in order for business users to be safer, more secure, and for these business relationships to be as transparent as possible. We have therefore received the amendment during the debate and we will consider the same and on behalf of the promoter I would like to thank you for the support provided or presented in the light of this final draft of the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-27-0.u19244	Thank you. Stay a while, because Vice President Skoro has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-27-0.u19245	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State, it is therefore clear to all that legislation simply does not follow the development of the Internet, and that is one pain that we have all paid dearly, I speak as an author, both as a musician and as a man who operates online. The basic problem of every law by me is always the application, the application of laws where we pass perhaps quality legal solutions but unfortunately in application it does not go the way it should go, and in the internet space there are many stakeholders. Replication time is short. But you and I are also aware that the phenomenon of the Internet did not mean the liberalisation, the democratisation we expected, but that the number of stakeholders increased so that now telecommunications companies of heritage as stakeholders in each transaction, in every job on the Internet, there was no money and before there was no money. I'll go back to what I already said. Unfortunately, I am afraid that the application of this law or compliance with the European Union Regulation will continue to be a situation where the people on the ground who need to apply these laws will, unfortunately, tell us nothing here. Does Croatia do enough when it comes to protection in the Internet space? That's all.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-27-0.u19246	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-27-0.u19247	That was a question or are we doing enough? Well, certainly this is a step towards increasing the level of legal certainty and that we are just working on improving Internet mediation, Internet business and digitalisation that we are naturally witnessing and that is inevitable.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-27-0.u19248	And the last replica, Mr. Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-27-0.u19249	Thank you, Vice President. State Secretary, in your opinion alone, I am glad that you presented this statistics and thank you for that, in your opinion, why are we so lagging behind on some European Union average in terms of our company's representation of online business? Is that maybe because we're a small country, so we can't use a certain number of supplies and place it so we can offer through certain Internet search engines or we haven't had enough of it yet, we've coordinated? Because we see as to the consumer we are here at a kind of similar level and we make good use of Internet business and trade services, but our entrepreneurs are not so much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-27-0.u19250	Would you like to answer that?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-27-0.u19251	Well, it's hard for me to tell why. It would be worth a safe study to see why this percentage is lower with us compared to the average at European Union level. It is also possible because business entities do not feel perhaps sufficient levels of legal certainty, and then we try to improve it in this way. Yeah? I don't really know. We'd still have to go through one study to see it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-27-0.u19252	Thank you very much. No more replicas. I'm closing the debate and we'll vote when the conditions are met. The next item of the agenda is: - Final proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the United States of America on the referral of flight security escorts, second reading, P.Z. No. 48. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the The Rules of Procedure of HS. It is prescribed, in fact, that the laws which are approved in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia by international contracts are, as a rule, adopted in a single reading. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. With us is the secretary of state at the MUP, Mr. Zarko Katic, who will lead us into the topic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-27-0.u19260	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor. MPs and gentlemen of the Parliament. At the beginning of last year, the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Interior, through the US Embassy in Zagreb, received a proposal to conclude an international act entitled "A Memorandum of Understanding between the US and the Republic of Croatia on the referral of flight security escorts". The United States has concluded an agreement with a large number of EU Member States with which they have established a direct air line allowing the sending of flight safety escorts in aircraft used to provide air transport services to passengers or to a combined air transport service. Following the above, and considering the newly established direct air line between Dubrovnik and Philadelphia, as well as potential other air lines in the future between these two countries, the conclusion of that international act was initiated. The establishment of the Dubrovnik- owen air line marked an important step in the relations between the Republic of Croatia and the United States because the two countries were after 29 years. reconnected directly to the air line. Although the Dubrovnik-Pfallia air line was seasonal or temporary, the plan was from 7 June to 27 September, the conclusion of this agreement will give rise to preconditions for improving the safety of air transport services and thus the possibility of establishing new additional and more frequent air lines between the two countries. Furthermore, the conclusion of the Agreement on the referral of flight safety escorts to aircraft used for the provision of air traffic services or air transport of passengers or combined air transport services is also one of the legal preconditions for the accession of the US visa exemption programme, American visas... program. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] The applicant therefore considers that this form of cooperation is of great importance for the Republic of Croatia, and that the improvement and deepening of mutual cooperation in the field of air transport is certainly in the interest of both countries. Due to the growing number of citizens of both parties who, for private or business reasons, should have, I say, because of this situation, so this did not happen until the end, to travel between the state areas of the parties to this agreement, there was therefore a real need for an agreement. The agreement itself defines important concepts, as well as the scope of this Agreement, the competent authorities for the implementation of the Agreement, the operational procedures, the general responsibilities of the sending party and the receiving party, the management of the activities of flight security escorts, education and technical assistance, as well as the issue of costs, and the resolution of the conflict in the interpretation of the agreement. The agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the United States of America on the deployment of flight security escorts was signed on 29 June 2020. in Zagreb. On behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the agreement was signed by Deputy Prime Minister and Interior Minister Davor Bozinovic, and on behalf of the US government, US Ambassador to the Republic of Croatia, William Robert Kohorst. The Government of the Republic of Croatia in accordance with Article 2 16. The law on the conclusion and enforcement of international contracts has initiated a procedure for confirmation, therefore in the light of the final proposal for a law, since it is proposed that this law be confirmed in accordance with Article 2 of the Treaty already signed. 207. The Rules of Procedure of HS shall be adopted in one reading. The agreement itself, as you can see, is shorter, has 12 articles and it will comply. The measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, Here's a thank you very much for your attention and we're ready to provide additional, additional explanations about this final bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-27-0.u19261	Stay because you have several replicas. The first line has Mr. Ante Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-27-0.u19262	Thank you, Vice President HS. Dear Secretary of State, a recent visit to the Republic of Dubrovnik, in particular Mike Pompeo, U.S. Secretary of State, head of American diplomacy, was then presented with the fact that the percentage of the rejection of Croatian citizens' demands for US visas was below 3%. So, more precisely, 2.7% with this agreement and the bill itself, is this the last condition that the Republic of Croatia needs to meet for inclusion in the visa exemption programme. in the opinion of the Ministry itself but you too, when could this full exemption come into effect? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-27-0.u19263	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-27-0.u19264	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Representative, it is true that these two conditions mentioned are among the most important. This condition that you just mentioned that Mr. Ponpeo was, wasn't easy to meet and we worked long enough to meet it. However, they are not the only conditions, but what remains is practically technical conditions. We have an obligation to correct one of our rules regarding the issue of travel documents by Croatian citizens, which is also in the process and will be fulfilled by the end of the year. And then I get into the visa... program I expect to happen in the first half of next year.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-27-0.u19265	Mr. Miroslav Tudjman has another replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-27-0.u19266	Thank you. Let me ask you two questions. I couldn't see from this the escorts of these flights. They're only American on those flights that America has licensed to drive over Croatian, or is that a matter of agreement? So which companies, or which aircraft were hired by Croatian escorts, and over which American? On the other hand, we're talking about ingenuity versus some incidents that may occur inside the plane. However, do we have protocols already defined or will they be defined on multiple jurisdiction in possible crisis situations? Who decides if something happens? Who decides which side decides where the plane will land? Whether to change destination etc.?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-27-0.u19267	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-27-0.u19268	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. Representative, about the very participation... There'll be more arrangements for the summer. [[You don't understand.]] Article 3 of this Agreement is therefore defined by the competent authorities. For the Government of the Republic of Croatia it is the Ministry of the Interior and our services will continue to negotiate the implementation of this Agreement. Another question?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-27-0.u19269	The second was, was our flight on American planes as security guards or American flight attendants on our... [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-27-0.u19270	Dr. Crescent. Tudjman can't have that kind of dialogue. No such dialogue is allowed by the Rules of Procedure The third line has a Mrs. Mariana Petrir. [[Intruder Katić: Excuse me.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-27-0.u19271	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your time. Mr. State Secretary line Dubrovnik – Philadelphia has waited over 30 years and it is not only designed as a tourist line but also to enable stronger investments from the American side in Croatia. I know that there is also a serious negotiation on the direct line Zagreb – New York and I hope that there will soon be conditions for this to happen. Since Croatia has truly met all the conditions for the visa regime to be abolished, I know that the State Department is now doing the fine mathematics. You said yourself that you expected that somewhere in the middle of next year and there could be a visa waiver. Congratulations to all those who have worked on these projects and made great efforts because I think it is also very positive for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, but also for our entrepreneurs and investment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-27-0.u19272	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-27-0.u19273	Thank you very much. Indeed, the work on meeting the conditions for the Republic of Croatia, or our citizens, to be exempt from the need for visas, was long and painful. But here we believe in ultimately successful that it will benefit not only people who, as you said, go for tourist reasons, but above all to establish the best economic relations between the United States and the Republic of Croatia. For that there are many reasons and many opportunities for these relationships to be at a much higher level.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-27-0.u19274	Thank you very much. You don't have any more replicas. Would anyone like to take a word from the board? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The first is Mr. Davor Dretar, who will present the position of the Association of Representatives of the Homeland Movement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-27-0.u19275	The Honorable Chairman, the esteemed colleagues, the esteemed colleagues. This Agreement is of course fully supported by the Homeland Movements and what is reflected in the opening documents is that the signing of this document meets one of the legal preconditions for the accession of the US visa exemption programme, which absolutely needs to be supported because, as already stated here, it will enable and simplify the management of both our economies and, of course, all those who are in transit. As far as the provisions of this Agreement are concerned, we find absolutely nothing controversial. But let's just take a moment to get an eye on a bit weird not to say a funny situation. About 30 minutes ago, we also officially learned that our third quarter GDP fell by 10%. We see for ourselves how difficult measures must be taken, and we fear that they will have to be even harder. The number of infected Covid-19 is growing and unfortunately with it the number of those who have died and we believe that we have to deal intensively with it and with all other things that we can push this country in the right direction towards better solutions. In fact, there is currently no direct plane line on the domestic market, either domestic carrier of Croatia Airlines or any other company towards the United States. We are truly aware that we need to get this topic through the parliamentary procedure as soon as possible and not waste much time, but let me, however, as a representative of the Homeland Movement once again emphasize what we are looking for almost from the beginning of this session, or from the very establishment of this Assembly of the Republic of Croatia. Important topics such as the report on the state of the judicial authority, the report on the work of the State Attorney's Office and the declaration of the economic belt, public procurement procedures and only the Committee for the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, Laws on Local and Regional Self-Government, the work of the HRT, the amendment of the Law on crafts or the Law on Commercial Society, and the essential topics for discussion sleep in the drawers of the ruling party. We are aware that we must sign this, please remove the chemical who can and may and may let us sign it because here we already see in today's updated agenda one of the points of the Treaty with Portugal on the Protection of Privacy of Information. We can really do this without us here in Parliament, as far as we're concerned, we're in, depositing our vote. Are we really going to divorce into a sea of unnecessary extended political debates? Let's get to work. Otherwise, I personally propose an agreement with Australia on equating the price of clocan meat, the technical rule on the determination of the average length of the wind instruments, the Mediterranean initiative on the legally acceptable number of points on the Dalmatiner breeds, and I would believe there and more points that we could discuss here for days. The country's movement is fiercely protesting policies and topics like this that are being put into debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-27-0.u19276	Mr. Dretar, I must apologize, I must interrupt. There's already one violation of the Rules of Procedure, and I can figure out what this is about, but the subject is each other, so I'd like to ask you to stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-27-0.u19277	I've been here five times in the last four minutes that we've agreed to this agreement, and I've just put out some extra association that came out here to me during my presentation. I would just like to say finally, please deal with all the urgent and important issues of Croatia and refer them to a parliamentary debate because they have been on the agenda for a very, very, very long time we have not discussed them. We all become a bit of a follow-up to the summer, a sad view of flying planes that drive away Croatian youth, and with it the future of this country. Well, I'm done.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-27-0.u19278	Thank you very much. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-27-0.u19279	Your Honor, Vice President. A colleague was injured by an officer. Paragraph 1 of Article 238(1) speaks of a subject which is not subject to discussion and paragraph 6 with its behaviour deviations from the general rules of conduct. I mean, you've already warned your colleague yourself or said he's not talking about a subject that's on the agenda, and all he's saying is there's a chance to say in free speeches that's going to be in half an hour. Therefore, I believe that he deserved a warning given that he had injured two of the above-mentioned articles. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-27-0.u19280	Thank you very much. Mr. Habian, I warned him and he finished his exposure long before he had to, so then we'll move on with the debate. Mr Mario Kapulica will present the position of the HDZ Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-27-0.u19281	Thank you very much, esteemed Chairman of HS. Honored colleagues and fellow MPs. Every topic on the HS agenda is important, and every time we stick to the topic and when they are focused on solving the problem that is involved, we speed up not only the work of HS but also the impression that the Croatian public has on the work of HS is good and positive, not only for HS but also for the trust of people in Croatian institutions and for the belief that what we do in this Parliament is in their best interest. As far as this issue is concerned, one of the objectives of the HDZ parliamentary majority and this government, and not... that this is the goal of other parliamentary political parties in this House, is that it is tighter and stronger international co-operation with our partners within the EU and with the United States that we mentioned in yesterday's debate on our armed forces and their participation in the peace missions that we have made in this morning's decision-making process. Independently about some separate opinions, which, from time to time, question the fundamental settings of our foreign policy and the need for the purpose of our membership in international organisations, NATO membership and even membership within the EU, thereby strengthening our cooperation on the international agenda, we believe that international co-operation should be strengthened in all its segments, we believe that this is a lasting goal of our country and that it is not absorbed or consumed by the very entry into key international institutions on the road on which we have not crawled, but we have fought hard for our complete international affirmation and for the goals we have set in the creation of the Croatian state since 1990. We believe that this is our permanent goal and that, in relation to the world, Croatia should not be closed, that Croatia should not be protected by limiting its international presence and integration but by legal protection, but not by closing its market, by strengthening its international visibility, by engaging in international flows, by developing its competence in all areas, and in this sense, the link with key international partners should be strengthened, and one of the moments in which we do so will be the confirmation of this Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the US Government. Such an agreement between the two sovereign states that are currently under discussion in this House of Commons and which will be supported by the HDZ Representatives Club has already been supported by a number of EU members. What's in his essence, we heard from the promoters, we discussed it on the parliamentary committees. In its essence, it is possible to refer to flight attendants, a step in relation to the United States initiated by the United States, which both governments agreed to form the basis for further improving air transport safety, but also for improving the preconditions for establishing new air lines in the future that we have talked about, although we all know very well that due to the current situation with the coronary pandemic, this is not a simple task. The law clearly defines the framework, the operational procedures and the competent authorities for its implementation, which in the Croatian case is the Ministry of Interior, which also means that I think we should express our gratitude for the very well-prepared work and for all the actions that preceded this Agreement. Although this bill did not have any more serious agreements, there were no more serious objections, it is important to stress that each party, therefore, both the Republic of Croatia and the United States can break it with written information diplomatically. Finally, on behalf of the HDZ Club of Representatives, that, with all these security reasons, by adopting this law, as has already been said about confirming the agreement between our Government and the Government of the United States, after the already established implementation agreement between the Ministry of Homeland Security of the United States and the Center for Terrorism in Washington and meeting the comprehensive questionnaire for Croatia's entry into the visa exemption programme, we are meeting one of the special legal preconditions from the competences of this Parliament for the accession of the visa exemption programme, which is one of the Croatian foreign policy priorities, which, not only this Government, will meet and meet the long-standing expectations of Croatian citizens and Croatian businessmen. It is therefore a matter of ensuring, facilitating and protecting the legal travel of Croatian and American citizens between the two countries, and this after, as the fellow MP said, it was the first time that the percentage of Croatian visa citizens' denied visa requirements was officially reduced below 3%. Convinced that the confirmation of this Agreement is in the interest of the Croatian state and in the best interest of its citizens, we call on all MPs to support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-27-0.u19282	Thank you, too. Thank you, too. Now the individual debate will be held by Mr. Ante Bacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-27-0.u19283	Thank you, dear vice president of HS, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. The agreement between the two governments of the Republic of Croatia and the United States regarding flight escorts, as we have heard, has been concluded by most of the Member States in such a budget, such an agreement with the United States, which is, in fact, a protected flight companion. The flight security escort shall be referred to as security officers, means a person employed, trained, authorised by the sender to travel on board to ensure the safety of that aircraft. It is important to point out that this particular security officer so far we may have seen this, only in movies, that something, something type of air marshal, is one last line of defense in the aircraft itself and through this agreement, in the very initial provisions there are definitions, but normally, the obligation of a co-signator of this Agreement and related to the costs and responsibilities during the flight and all others, all the other issues that are relevant to this agreement. It is also important to point out what we have mentioned in the introduction through the very replicas, it is perhaps that only this agreement is under quotes, came at the wrong time, came at the time of the coronaryvirus pandemic when the number of flights, planes and when all direct lines between the United States and Europe were abolished. Unfortunately, only a few months, not full maybe a year since the establishment of the very line between Dubrovnik and Philadelphia, which we were very proud of and for our emigration, but also for the sake of the economy itself, as well as tourism and what it meant for the city of Dubrovnik and the Republic of Croatia. Through this Agreement I must definitely highlight and commend the Minister of the Interior, but here is the entire ministry because we have been following since 2018, which all contracts and agreements have been submitted and signed with the United States itself. We know that the minister himself has been on several occasions and in meetings with the chief state attorney and with the director of the FBI, and these have all been one prerequisite for the real issue that we have in 2021 which I think is one exclusive right not many states in the world, which is meeting the security requirements for including the Republic of Croatia in the visa exemption programme for the United States. We met most of the criteria, here's what the secretary of state told us, this is the most important criterion and the most important statistics that are first viewed, and this is the reduction of the percentage of the deduction of visas themselves to below 3% that we have met. We also know that we have very good relations with the U.S. Embassy, but also in general not to mention through defence and through the economy that we have had very good relations so that definitely everything that has happened since 2018 from the level of the MUP and all the agreements that have been signed, but the very cooperation with certain US institutions has come to us that we have managed to establish this line of Dubrovnik-Phedel, but that we have entered the final stage of the visa waiver regime itself. When we look at all of this, when we look at this agreement that will greatly strengthen the safety of aircraft future flights itself, we can only hope that in 2021 it will be fruitful in this field, that we will lift visas between our two countries, we should believe that we should definitely persist, but especially the MUP and that we have a new institute, which are the flight's protective escorts, or here may be a simpler expression of flight security officers that will normally improve quality, but also safety and the elimination of potential future threats on the flights themselves. In 2021, I hope we have these direct lines, especially for Croatia not only to restore but to have more than one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-27-0.u19284	Thank you, too. The first replica of Mrs. Mariana Petrir.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-27-0.u19285	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I would like to point out that, with our diplomacy and efforts made by the government, Croatian emigrants who have given themselves a lot of effort here, living in America, who have also lobbyed on their part. It is important that Croatia has met all the conditions for visa waiver and that this is a good prerequisite for strengthening and co-operation between Croatia and the United States which is extremely good. But I would like to look at a broader picture here than bilateral co-operation and our NATO participation, Croatia is certainly in this part of Europe that has its weight and has not been able to take some steps away from the EU's mainstream policy when the United States has proposed something that is constructive and good.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-27-0.u19286	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-27-0.u19287	Thank you, Vice President. Thank you, colleague Petyr, for the replica. Graduation and all that I've mentioned here has only worked for the past two years, I think we can be proud of the Republic of Croatia that in two decades someone who was a "risk group", comes from a risky area net after the end of the war, that now in 2020 we are discussing with the Secretary of State in Dubrovnik that within a year or two we will lift our visas completely for our citizens. What does that mean for the quality of the work of diplomacy, what does that mean for our emigrants who are in America, not to mention the economy in tourism? I think it's one big step and we can be proud of all this work that all the governments of the Republic of Croatia have been doing so far, especially the emphasis on diplomacy.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-27-0.u19288	Mr. Miroslav Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-27-0.u19289	Thank you. Comrade Bačić, you have mentioned these flights now from Philadelphia-Croatia, etc., it is not disputed that we should have such agreements for the safety of traffic and all that can happen, but it should be warned that there are far-reaching preparations, more complex preparations, defined protocols especially for those predictable situations that are not clear how they will have to behave under this law. Let's take a line if we're going to have from Canada, I think we have Canada through the U.S., where American citizens will board for Croatia that's going to be worth the rules, by this or any other law that we're going to pass? The question of protocol, unfortunately, has not been answered, the question of protocol is crucial and important.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-27-0.u19290	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-27-0.u19291	Thank you, Professor. Tudjman on the replica. I agree with you in part of this agreement if we look at only the states and the Republic of Croatia and the United States in this jurisdiction agreement are mentioned, it may not be all specified in detail, but in terms of the follower of the flight itself. that safety expert who is to be on a flight in the agreement and writes the jurisdiction when he enters an aircraft that is his jurisdiction, where he can land, when he lands to whom he has to contact, to hand over someone in the aircraft to which the institution, in this agreement, stands, but in that part stands between the United States and the Republic of Croatia exclusively. What it will be in the future and what it will mean for other American or Croatian citizens on other flights, it is now on the side of the MUP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-27-0.u19292	Mr. Erik Fabianic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-27-0.u19293	Thank you. In this agreement, however, there is really nothing controversial, what is disputed but not the matter of this agreement, it is a matter of his reasoning because here he was heard alone after the debates argues that the issue should facilitate the abolition of the visa between the two states. We are therefore the legal followers of the Dubrovnik Republic, so one of the states that first recognised the sovereignty of the United States as such. It is saddened that the United States is treating Croatia this way, but even sadder, it is that the issue of visa waiver was also the position of the European Parliament which tasked the European Commission to unify the visa regime between EU member states and the European Parliament... /The speakers speak at the same time./... Unfortunately, however, the HDZ-led MEPs voted against the resolution.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-27-0.u19294	Thank you very much. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-27-0.u19295	My fellow Fabianic, thank you for the replica. I would not agree with you that the poor status of the Republic of Croatia is when we look at the United States and the US government, it shows in the last decade of our visits, from the very relations with the embassy and here to the last summit that happened with Michael Pompe when we look at the size of our country, the importance of our economy, our position, and when we put on the other hand the defence aspect and the acquisition of equipment and the very economic co-operation itself, but I also think we sit here equally in a lot of issues and a lot of problems, just at the table with the United States, and I think that a move should always be important, but I don't think we should regret that we should be proud of the status of the Republic in international relations.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-27-0.u19296	Time. Thank you very much. And the last replica of Mrs. Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-27-0.u19297	There have already been several conversations here about an agreement between the two equal members, but it is hardly possible to talk about an equal relationship between Croatia and the United States if we have one country that sends a list of conditions to another country in order to abolish the visa regime. Some say, therefore, that the appearance of the ambassadors and a series of these legislative frameworks that we get here are also related to the purchase of F16 aircraft and the visa regime being abolished, so it is one type of irregularity, an irregular relationship, we certainly cannot talk about an equal relationship. And it would be nice to know what we're getting and what we're losing or what we're committed to in favour of abolishing the visa regime.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-27-0.u19298	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-27-0.u19299	Thank you, Vice President. Thank you, colleague Peovic, for this comment and question. Normally, there's an interest in every country when it makes any kind of agreement with any other state. I think these are now speculations that we have promised, planes and supplies of some kind of equipment, and all that, I think that when we look at the total factor, the price and all of us aren't "so many big players" now that just such speculations are spinning, but that privileged or perhaps invisible position we always have to watch the United States for who they are. We know what the status of the United States is, that it is also a world power and their very position in the world that they are large and powerful enough to impose some rules in cooperation with them as well as the visa regime. I think it's a normal thing and there's nothing weird about it or that we're some sort of exception to rules in the international world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-27-0.u19300	Thank you very much. You don't have any more replicas. I'm closing the debate and we'll vote when the conditions are met. Now we're going to have a 13:00 break to clear the hall and then we're going to continue with the popular display of the so-called position. Free views to be brief. Thank you. MEETING AT 12:52 A.M.
