ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186352	Thank you. This concludes the presentation of the position of clubs and begins with the first law today, which is: - Final proposal of the Law on the List of Populations, Households and Apartments in the Republic of Croatia in 2021, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. Number 834 Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172, 204 and 206. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. In accordance with Article 206. The Rules of Procedure adopted on the occasion of the establishment of the agenda a proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal by an urgent procedure. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings, amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate pursuant to Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, and the amendment was submitted by the Committee on Legislatives. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? With us is Mr Zdravko Zrinašić, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186353	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Prominent MPs and MPs, the provisions of the applicable Law on Official Statistics, stipulates that the census and other extensive statistical surveys, as well as the census, are governed by a special law, in this sense and in this respect this list of the population planned to be carried out in 2021, is governed by this special legislation. The planned census of the population, households and dwellings in the Republic of Croatia is the most extensive and complex statistical survey, and given the number of units covered, the richest source of data on the population of a country, and data collected by the census are necessary for the implementation of various economic, social, demographic, development and other policies and scientific research. Let me just remind you, a total of 16 lists were conducted in the area of the Republic of Croatia or territory from 1857 to 2011. The last list of 2011 was carried out, and the changes conditional on the last 10 years since the last census and the implementation of the international obligations of official statistics make this list essential next year. Therefore, the law is adapted to the changes and requests made to the comparability of data at international level. According to the Law on Official Statistics, the State Statistics Institute is the main holder, dissiminator and coordinator of the official statistics system of the Republic of Croatia and the main representative of the national statistical system before the European international authorities responsible for statistics. Its responsibility shall include the preparation and implementation of statistical activities and the fulfilment of the international obligations of official statistics from the work cycle set out in the programme of statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia and the annual implementation plan for the statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia. The population list itself is an integral part of both the programme and the plan of statistical activities. This bill regulates the preparation of lists, organisations and its implementation, units and contents of the list, the reference date of the list, confidentiality and data protection, and other issues relevant for the implementation of the list. The census normally includes 3 units, which are population, household and apartment. The list aims to establish data on the number and spatial layout of the population and on their basic demographic, educational, migration, economic and other characteristics as well as characteristics of households and apartments. The results of the list, except for the analysis of the situation identified by the list, are also used to analyse changes in relation to previous lists and to forecast future developments in the corresponding occurrences. The list shall be carried out according to the condition on 31 March 2021 at 24 hours as considered the reference moment of the list, and the period of duration of the list shall be 1 April to 7 May 2021. As planned in the census of the population of households and dwellings in October of this year precedes the implementation of the previous census, I would like to remind, as was presented in this higher house, about the annual implementation plan of the Croatian statistical activities for 2020, this annual implementation plan in the area of demographic and social statistics is planned to intensively work on preparatory activities for the implementation of the census of households and dwellings in '21. and implementation of this trial list of the population, households and dwellings using modernised methods of data collection, testing the use of administrative data sources, and the planned sample is 100 lists of circles which make up 10,000 households in 4 counties and the City of Zagreb itself. The preparation of the list itself shall be subject to recommendations of the European Statistical Conference for the censuses of the population and dwellings of 2020. The main purpose of those recommendations is to provide guidance to countries in the planning and implementation of censuses and better international comparability of data through proposed basic list features, definitions and classifications. Each country normally carries out a list for its own needs, but in order to comply with international obligations and better comparable data with other countries, I must respect and apply international standards. In accordance with international statistical standards for the definition of the total population, the concept of the usual place of residence in accordance with Regulation (EC) No 763/2008 of the EU Parliament and of the Council on the census will apply. According to this concept in the regulation, the total population of the country is considered to be all the persons in that country, who have their usual place of residence in the country, and the usual place of residence is considered to be the place where people spend most of their daily time regardless of the short-term absence from that place, for example. to go on vacation, pathways, treatment, visits, etc. In accordance with the definition of the usual place of residence under Regulation (EC) No 763/2008, the total number of inhabitants comprises persons of 2 criteria. First, persons who have been living continuously in their usual place of residence for at least 12 months, and as previously said, according to this bill, the reference moment of the census, or, as the regulation defines, a critical moment, was determined on March 31st to 24 hours. And the second criterion is, people who, for 12 months before the critical moment of the census, came to their usual place of residence with the intention of staying in it for at least a year. The period of 1 year and longer and the intention to be present or absent from at least one year is the basic criteria for including or excluding persons from the total population of the country as regards the list criteria. Therefore, given the methodology of the census and the purpose of official statistics, the official results of the census are not the basis for comparison with other state records on persons, the personal status of citizens. In addition to that Regulation, the following three Commission Regulations are relevant for the list. First, Implementing Regulation of the EU Commission No. 2017/543 laying down rules for the application of Regulation (EC) No 763/2008 on the list of populations and dwellings as regards technical specifications and characteristics and their breakdowns, subsequently Commission Regulation 2017/712 laying down the reference year and the adoption of the statistical data and meta-data programme for the census and housing provided for in Regulation 763. I third Implementation of Commission Regulation 2017/881 implementing Regulation 763 on the census of the population and housing as regards the manner and structure of reporting quality and technical format for the situation,... data and exchanges under Regulation 1151/2010. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Those regulations lay down common rules in the collection of data on the EU population and housing and lists definitions or regulations of definitions and classifications which Member States are required to apply in their lists in order to achieve international comparability of data. As regards the funds themselves for the implementation of the census carried out by the State Statistics Office, these amounts are provided for in 163,058 million kuna and are secured in the State budget for the State Statistics Office for the period 18-22, and as regards the second part of the census carried out by the State Geodetic Administration, this amount is 14 million and 250 thousand kuna and are secured in their budget for the period 20-21. 28th century 4, by the Committee on Legislatives and the Croatian Parliament under No. 834/1 and we accept it this way. Here, thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186354	Thank you. We have four replicas on your opening display. He's my first colleague, Miro Bulj, after him, a colleague named Curaj. Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186355	Thank you very much. The population census in 2021 will show defeat of Croatian politics. The defeat of Croatian politics because already some statistical indicators have come out. It turns out that in one year, 70% of our citizens who moved out abroad increased, which means that it is 5% of Croatian GDP or 18 billion kuna. It is a tax on Croatian politics. Here, I ask you, secretary, how do you explain it because Prime Minister Plenkovic and Minister of Finance, your competent minister here for days were saying when I warned this problem that 5% of GDP is from those who moved out of the country with their policies and that it was a defeat of demographic images and their policies, they claimed it to be ticks. Now we have official, so statistics, 5% of GDP, 18 billion kuna. Our citizens you've evicted. [[/Intruder Hajdash Doncic: Thank you. Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186356	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186357	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative. As far as migration policies are concerned, as you yourself know, the MUP in its portfolio is also very closely monitoring this data you have on migration that concerns the departure of young or other groups of people within the EU, as a member of the EU, it is understandable that people are moving and looking for a job where it seems better. This is not only a problem in the term of this government but the continuity and post-war years as regards the population of the Republic of Croatia and during Yugoslavia, if you remember, a large number of our people went to the countries of Central Europe looking for better paid jobs. Of course, each government, including this High House, will and will, and should lead to the preservation of its own population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186358	The next replica, Col. Curaj, followed by his colleague Orepic, please welcome colleague Curaj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186359	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, I think what's good and what's being introduced here is the possibility of e-fulfilling the pattern via the e-Citizen system. I'd like to ask you a few questions. What data will be given priority, whether by personal or electronic means if we get redundancies or by matching that one person has reported as another person so far and listed data for another person, so far you have been able to personally tell about your host all other data, you have not always had to question each person, now what is with this by electronic means of one and the other, and whether there is at all the possibility that citizens are stimulating right now to sign by electronic means in order to collect de facto lower costs because they will not have to do so, we will personally not have to pay them in such a way or in any other way to encourage as much electronic filling as possible, the greater electronic filling up of the form itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186360	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186361	Thank you very much, Your Honor, I am pleased to ask the question, given that this is one of the RH's intensities that in some future, and I hope this will be one of the last if not the latest censuses in the field as regards the census. Of course, the possibility of these activities that you have stated remains that a member of the household will be able to enter data for his other household members using Internet banking or e-Citizens, here is a very important link in this whole series of authorization levels that are sometimes defined as a personal card, is relatively complicated in terms of access, especially if they are rural areas, etc., so that we hope that through the education that we are planning in the effort, the upcoming period will encourage and the promotion of people, we will encourage that such activities are used as much as possible and, of course, in some future, I expect that these administrative sources that exist now will be able to compete with statistical bases and population lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186362	Thank you. Comrade Orepic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186363	I thank the chairman. Mr. Curray took some of my questions, but secondly, why the rush procedure? So we knew eight years ago, nine years ago that the list would be next year and we could, as a society, prepare ourselves, discuss all the details, why didn't we decide to go in the direction of the register? We know that this data in a year's time we collect next year from 4th to 5th. I mean, let's give them a year, there'll be old-fashioned data. We simply do not follow time or our needs because this list should serve us first. It's amazing why we're going into an emergency procedure and we're using this mechanism to know which way that we can, with 15 hands on this Assembly, overrule the rules of our own that we've brought in, or the need where we define in which cases an emergency procedure is being passed to pass a law.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186364	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186365	Thank you very much. Since this is a legal norm of 50 articles that he said would have been standardized every 10 years, it was estimated that in two readings there would not be much crystallized in the regulation norm itself and that the implementation that has already been in practice, we said, well, it was not always Croatia as an independent but 6 so far lists gives us the right to have enough experience in that list. As for the databases themselves, as we did in some previous discussions, it means that these administrative databases in terms of population censuses are expected to be in line with the common denominator by 2024 so that they can be used on an annual basis in terms of updating the census, which does not mean that they will not need to make a census within the meaning of... the data we collect in a different way but in the very sense of the number of people,... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] etc., yes. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186366	Thank you. Comrade Shuker, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186367	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary of State, here in this opening statement, I lack the basic goals that the Republic of Croatia wants with this census, and we cannot say that something is not our primary. It is very often auctioned here about how many people have left Croatia, I think it is one piece of information that is important to everyone for the simple reason that we do not engage politically when we need it and when we do not need it. The other thing, I think it's... The register that was intended when the OIB Act was passed, I think today would have discussed the census in a completely different way because a lot of data would be in that central register in the tax administration. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The third thing, let's not forget the DZS because its data that they send to EUROSTAT, define our obligations and rights, and we simply need to be aware when we speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186368	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186369	Thank you very much. Dear Representative, therefore the objectives, so I will repeat them once again, the lists should be to obtain data on the number and spatial layout of the population and on their basic demographic, educational, migration, economic and other characteristics as well as on the characteristics of households and dwellings, and these data should be used for analysis and future forecasts of the movement of any phenomenon as well as the movement of the population. Of course this register etc. which you mentioned is indeed something that is coming, which we are not waiting for to be offered or EUROSTAT or any Member State but ourselves because it is necessary to do so as soon as possible, forecasts by 2024, otherwise to do so, that no longer needs to be implemented such a 10-year list, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186370	Thank you. Do the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it? A colleague of Jelkovac, a colleague of Peric's? If not, then I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, a colleague named Bozo Petrov appeared, please welcome fellow Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186371	Dear colleagues and colleagues, as we see each year, we have a new census waiting for us, and I think we all need to be terrified of that list. The list of population in 2021 will be a kind of recapitulation of political successes and failures since 2011 here and I fear that the picture of Croatia drawn by this census will not be very bright. I believe that everyone in Croatia today is aware that certain Croatian areas are completely abandoned, I will not list them on this occasion because this list is sad and unfortunately not an end is seen by emigration, even moreover, we are entering a period in which the remaining European countries will lift the barriers to the arrival of Croatian workers, Croatian people, so I am afraid that we have not yet touched the demographic bottom and that the worst is yet to follow. I know this isn't easy to listen to, but I think it would be unfair from this pay phone to spread unfounded optimism and still refuse to face the truth. With the departure of every man from the Republic of Croatia, there is irreparable damage, and there are young people and the population who are in every respect at their peak, both intellectual and working and absolutely each other. The population's exodus began shortly after EU entry 2013. First of all, this possibility of Croatian citizens being free to walk freely to European countries, to go to European countries, was certainly welcomed by our authorities with relief. At that time, the Republic of Croatia was technically in recession, the unemployed were hard to reach employment, the youth most affected by this unemployment because they had no place to work after school, and many citizens suffered because of this under the burden of performance, and then realistically expected who of us would remain in such a state where you did not literally have for bread and in this difficult social situation the opening of the EU labour market for political authorities seemed to be a rescue at the last minute so that no accidental social dissatisfaction would be poured into the streets and then our political authorities could hardly wait for the emigrant wave to begin. It is in this direction that unfortunately there was a statement by the representative of the authorities who came here to speak to us as a proposal for this law, so lightly non-chalant, without worry, I would say with relief, the representative said the man went where he thought it was easier, even in the next sentence the representative compared it to the homeland war, with the consequences that the country's war left on this country. You see and here I agree with you, I would even say that the exodus allowed by those who have managed the Republic of Croatia since the entry of 2013 is worse than the Homeland War, is worse than the consequences of the Homeland War, and here I agree with you. But after your finding, there was nothing else going on but empty flossules, we must try to stop trends, nothing concrete, and I ask you that finally the authorities become concrete if they are able to go through years and we have seen that over the years the eviction dynamics are increasing and that our evictions have slowly settled in other countries, their property situation has been improved, they have even started to send foreign exchanges, as our evictions have done during the former Yugoslavia, and then last year we got the first actual figures. How much is it actually money, from people who have moved out in recent years, sent to the Republic of Croatia? And that's what MP Bulj told you, the growth of Croatian emigrants in just one year jumped by 70%, 18 billion kuna or 5% of Croatian GDP. Well, I must mention that, by the way, when those figures finally saw the light of day then different commentators appeared, experts who said that it was actually, and the signals that are being paid back to the Republic of Croatia, that money that's coming back to the Republic of Croatia that is a sign that these emigrated intend to return to the Republic of Croatia. Interesting. These greedy claims, unfortunately, have no foothold in reality. The fact that emigrants are paying money in the Republic of Croatia today is just saying that they did well in another country, in another country, to make more money, to live there better and to have no intention of returning, that means it's time to look in the mirror, to face the truth. And of course, this story of eviction, of its proportions in recent years, I think it's already well known, even these political authorities have tasted the porridge they've cooked themselves. So you have the prime minister's statement, sincere after the presidential elections, that in the counties where the HDZ government is no longer enough voters to win the former president. See, that statement revealed all the absurdities and political and demographic realities. By the way, there's been a lot of untrueness in the prime minister's statement. The prime minister complained of low turnout, the turnout was solid compared to the RS average if it is viewed according to real data on the ground, not compared to an unaccounted list of voters. This real list of voters would show a lot of different conditions, historical curves, trends in the movement of our voters outside the Republic of Croatia for 10 years would show many things, but that information is hard to come by, it is kept in the government, I guess, up to some better political times, opportunities. So let's leave the voter register, get back to the subject. This census law brings some newspapers into the census, and they should be welcomed. We can see that digitization has affected this population list as well. A part of the citizens, as we have heard, will only be allowed to list through the e-Citizen system. Of course, in addition to this digital self - registration, conventional control mechanisms are prescribed, which is good. However much of what I must stress is done by the list of people, it is enormously important for this census to be accurate, detailed, reliable, accurate, to show the real picture of Croatia. It is clear to me that absolutely every political authority, government will try to show this census and its political opportunist as best as possible. But I ask you, don't fall into that trap of self-deception because we really need accurate data from this list, and they need us because the exact list of assumptions of everything that can allow us to see what and how, that someone finally makes decisions that should have been made a long time ago. And let's be honest, Croatia is managed in an ineffective and indiscreet manner throughout all segments of the public sphere. Local self - administrations have accumulated, many of whom have absolutely no ability to perform a decentralised function or the smallest. That's the system we're trying to patch up by hoarding an institution into an institution. And I think it's finally time to finally look beyond conventional methods, beyond the defined frameworks, I think it's time to say that the entire state architecture needs to be rationalized. This is how we waste energy, money, and in the villages you're building soon no one will live. And it's time for someone to tell people the truth, not every village can have both a municipality and a hospital and a court, etc. and we need to make a decision based on objective criteria, accurate data where there is a potential for life, invest in these cities and municipalities, make them the hotspots of life. Our public systems have to be flexible, communication with citizens is generally to be conducted by electronic means, and what I'm talking about demographics have a name for this population policy, they call it redistributive. In order to be able to talk in these categories at all, it is necessary first to establish a zero state on the ground. That is why this census is so important and therefore needs to be done in the manners of the best expert in line with the highest standards of profession. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186372	Thank you. We're continuing the debate on behalf of the MPs' club. The next one is HDZ counterpart Branko Juričev Martinchev. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186373	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, Director-General with associates, colleagues and colleagues. The proposed legislation on censuses, households and dwellings in the Republic of Croatia in the urgent process of the HDZ club will be supported because this law improves the way data is collected, improves, modernises the process, reduces the duration of the interview and gives the possibility of self-fulfilment. For the first time, our citizens can register on their own using an electronic questionnaire that will be available through the e-Citizens' electronic system. The Official Statistics Act stipulates that the census and other statistical extensive research are governed by a specific law and are an integral part of the statistical activity programme and of the annual implementation plan. It was this very proposal for a law that was also on the e-Advocacy all November 2019 and only five comments were received. The objective of the public debate was to enable the public through a constitution guaranteed access to timely, complete and accurate information and to collect proposals and proposals from the interested public. The census is a legally regulated collection of statistics on each individual member of the population of a particular country or area. Citizens shall provide information on themselves by conventional counting method per questionnaire. The census is a statistical tool used by the state for various purposes such as tax or economic policy. This census of households and dwellings in the Republic of Croatia is the most extensive and complex statistical survey given the number of units covered and the richest source of data on the population of a country. These data are necessary for the implementation of various economic, social, demographic, development and other policies and scientific research. Quality planning and decision-making can only be carried out on the basis of current official statistics. These data are used not only for the analysis of the identified situation, but also for the analysis of changes in relation to previous lists and for the forecast of future developments of the corresponding phenomenon. In the application of the list, recommendations are applied, as we heard conferences by European statisticians for censuses and apartments in 2020. The main purpose of these recommendations is to provide guidance in the planning and implementation of regulations for better international comparability of data. For the definition of the total population, the concept of the usual place of residence will apply, in accordance with the 2008 regulation, as well as the censuses in 2001 and 2011 also applied. The different regulations also lay down common rules in data collection, as well as definitions and classifications which Member States are required to apply for the purpose of international comparability of data. People, as I said for the first time, can list on their own using a list questionnaire in electronic form that will be available through the electronic system of e-citizens. So, at the same time, they will list households and apartments in which they live, or censusors, with the help of electronic devices, all listed units that are not listed on their own and which carry out data checks collected by independent listing. National identification and authentication systems shall be used to access the list questionnaire in the electronic system of e-Citizens. It is precisely that digital censusing in the first stage and its duration that enables members of the household to jointly list at the time most appropriate to them and to provide accurate data. So someone can get into that system on Saturday night, and I don't know until late Sunday when everyone's at home and when they know certain data. They also have plenty of time to enter and verify the accuracy of a data. If a person who lists another household member is not sure about the accuracy of a census information, he may interrupt and continue it, for example. the second day after verification of its accuracy, or until the end of the census period via the Internet. The census was completed by sending a list of questionnaires and receiving a control code which is also a confirmation of successfully completed listing. After that, the list questionnaire passes the basic controls and no longer is possible to see and modify data via the Internet. All members of the household shall be listed together by Internet censuses, e.g. A person who thus lists members of his household will list himself, his spouse, or his wife, his children, possibly some other household members, for example. their parents who live with them in the same household and therefore the censusor will not have to come to that facility. The censuses are conducted in two phases, meaning from 01 April 2021 to 10 April by independent censusing of the population through the electronic system of e-citizens and from 16 April 2021 to 7 May '21. where the censusors are to make a list of all listed units which did not self-list through a personal interview with the population using an electronic device and carry out the data checks collected in the first phase. This law will improve the accuracy and quality of the data collected, the use of direct logical controls during the entry and ciphers and classifications themselves to reduce systemic errors and input errors. The effectiveness of field management will be improved. Make it possible to speed up and significantly raise the quality of information exchange between participants. Possibility of insight into the work of censusors, controllers, instructors, coordinators to the State Statistics Institute as well as better coordination of work and improvement of data processing. The period between the completion of field work and the publication of data and the reduction of costs will be shortened, which is of paramount importance to us. Since it is estimated that a significant number of citizens will be listed e-Citizens it is planned to engage only 9,500 participants on the ground this time. It's far less than what was in 2011 when they were hired by 17,500 and even more in 2011 when we had 25,000. As we have heard from Eurostat, the Republic of Croatia is obliged to provide answers to a number of questions prescribed by the EU Regulation and the UN Recommendations and, in fact, 80% of the questions and data are currently related, just as these types are, while the remaining issues are national. Many data and we have and we get survey research, so what is not covered by these lists is done in one different way sometimes even more often and more than the list itself that is essentially as we know every 10 years. All this data will be published 60 days after the data collection is completed. List, preparation, organisation, coordination and implementation of the Department of Statistics with the authorities of the state administration, the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs, the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Justice as well as the units of local and regional (regional) self-government in which the county lists commissions and the list committee of the City of Zagreb, respectively, and the list centres for the area of the city or municipality are established. We have heard the comments on why the law is adopted in an emergency procedure, but it is really necessary to pass this law in an emergency procedure because the list is a comprehensive and complex statistical survey that requires detailed preparation before the implementation on the ground. It is necessary to organise and appoint the list committees, offices, organise lessons properly and in due time, the State Geodetic Administration is required to list spatial units and transparent, transparent mappings relevant and necessary for the list to be submitted to the State Statistics Office by 15 December of this year. The preparation of technical documentation requires the implementation of field work for a longer period during this year and this proposal for the Census, Households and Apartments Act in the Republic of Croatia 2021. The HDZ Club will support because it improves and rationalises the way data is collected, improves and modernises the process, shortens the duration of the interval, and for the first time gives the possibility of self-fulfilment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186374	Thank you, too, we continue to debate on behalf of the club of representatives, the next colleague Vesna Pusic is on behalf of the GLAS Representatives Club, please welcome your colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186375	Thank you very much, Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues. This Census Act next year is, of course, regular preparation for the census. It is stressed that this is the first census since the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the EU, emphasising the importance of international comparability, so data collection by criteria that will make these data comparable at European level. Of course our Department of Statistics started preparing before we entered for data collection by these criteria, but in any case this is the first time. However, what is important for us, at least equally, is that the data are comparable and long-term, so that they are comparable not only transversely through at the same time with others, data from other countries but with data on our own situation over time because this only allows us to monitor trends and, and understanding the defects that occur at that level with Croatian society. The objectives set out in this law, therefore, as the objectives of the census, are to establish data on the number and spatial layout of the population, to identify demographic characteristics, so age, sex, this type of characteristics, to identify educational characteristics, so with what degree of education we have what percentage of the population in the Republic of Croatia, migration characteristics, obviously who moved, moved, where, where, etc., economic characteristics, therefore the property situation and the structure of the population by the property state, but also some, let's say, extraterrestrial or at least to some extent of the world-wide characteristics such as. Nationality and religion. With this, otherwise you get into art. 14. defines which data are collected. However, I will return to these, at least to some point I would say, secular data, so nationality and religion, and I question whether or not another person gives information about one member or member of the household and the possibility that these data are not always identical to what that person thinks of itself, so that if you allow the data that have elements of the worldview, value, attitude, self-explanation of their own identity to be given to someone else, it defacts the accuracy of those data and opens the possibility that they are counterfeited, or that, conditionally speaking, the head or any of, in the household, that the data on their members of the household, in accordance with how he or she sees it or wants to be, and not according to how that person exhibits it himself or, or considers it. That's why, at least, I think it's important to keep that in mind when you record data that a person doesn't give alone but gives someone else in her name. Data will be used and used, of course, for comparisons, so to establish on one side trends in population movement, but also for the education of the population, quality of housing, all other characteristics being examined by the population list, however, and for those data to be used on one side for projections,... Extrapolations to the future from trends that can be read, but also as a basis for policies, so always about this topic and these topics are mentioned exodus or the fact that a large number of people have left the Republic, that when the exact data is seen and from which parts of the Republic and which age and education structures, they will be able, will also be able to serve as a basis for proactive policies, so these proactive policies cannot be as they almost always seem, feeling that when we were not in the EU, they could not walk around so easily. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] So it can't be repression. It can't be a ban on people going where they want to go and looking for the quality of life better, but it can be a basis for policies that create a better quality of life. The following law, which will be discussed today, about foreigners, shows that on the other hand, the possibility of the arrival of foreigners in the Croatian labour market and employment here will also be a problem, and I would say, is a problem because the Croatian labour market is not competitive with European labour markets in many other European countries, and in this respect, the only cure for this is, on the one hand, better wages, when you have fewer people you can hire, better wages, but as we know from research, 30, between 25 and 30% of people leaving for wages and jobs, and 70 to 75% of people like research, more research by different institutions showed among people who have gone away, leaving because of corruption, nepotism, negative political climates, all the time finding enemies, aggression that as an atmosphere of governments in a society where people do not want to live, and that is something that is a general task, so I would say that in general Croatian policies and any way that, and only in this way, we can prevent them from the descripting themselves. To define the total population will use the standard housing criterion, that means that probably some people who are half out there will register as being in Croatia, I suppose, correct me if I'm wrong. It is also said that the tasks of the State Geodetic Authority, given the households and apartments listed there, are to make or make up a list of spatial units and transparent maps on which a census will then be carried out. For that, too, there are certain means planned here. I must say that, in my knowledge, these data is largely already available in authorised geodesys covering certain areas, and they cover all of Croatia together. So these are data that exist including maps, and the question is what the State Geodetic Authority is doing then, specifically, whether it is using these existing data that exist in authorised geodetics or in some way doing the same job twice. Of course, this census we hope will serve, and it would certainly be more up-to-date if we had a Central State Register and I hope it will serve to establish such a Central State Register, where population movements and the movement of certain indicators or indicators in the population are then continuously recorded. So where you don't need one-time lists every 10 years anymore, and between those two lists, it's shot or guessed, but you can keep track and much faster then and of course react. The ability only to list is a newspaper that is first introduced and can be made by electronic means. This is, of course, also to make it work, it will probably also be necessary, by electronic means, because it will be done by people who use computers, so propagating and instructing people, so it will also publish instructions and some kind of small education on how people can use this new method and this new self-speaking instrument. This is certainly more credible than listing by another member of the household who provides information for its members or for non-represented members. Perhaps it is important for the public to repeat once again that the census will be next year. Self-recording from 1st to 10th.4.2021, and housekeeping from 16.4. to 7.5. The Voice Club will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186376	Thank you. We're continuing the debate on behalf of the MPs' club. The next debate is shared in front of the National Minorities' Club of Representatives by counterparts Bilek and counterpart Kajtazi. First it's my colleague, Bilek. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186377	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President HS. Dear Secretary of State, the Honorable Director of the Department of Statistics with colleagues. Here, here is the final proposal of the Census Act, which should be implemented next year, and I must commend all those who have worked on this proposal because I think there are a lot of good things, a lot of innovations that will help us to avoid, among other things, waiting as the last year and a half until the results are announced. Congratulations on what it means this time, and for the first time, part of the census will be done electronically, means through the system of e-citizens, and some of our citizens will be able to self-register, but the second part that will work will be done in a way that immediately digitally inputs into computers that will be sent by electronic means, and on this side we believe that there will be no problems over possible illogicalness, inaccuracy of data that we have had and various corrections and everything else, and that we will get all the information we need in time and in that real form. I have to say that the census as such is extremely important, it's important for our entire country for all our citizens, it's important through the economy, and through the quality of our citizens' lives, not only do people think it's purely statistical data, that statistical data is often used, for example. and in determining the size of agglomerations, purifiers and everything else where we have now had the opportunity to use European funds, so there have been many places and disproportionateness between the current population, given the size of these agglomerations, etc., which I believe will also be resolved in the future. Of course, no proposal is perfect because it is also here to try to clean it up a little bit, we are already in the name and alliance of the Czech Republic and representatives of the Czech national minority and I personally as a representative of the parishes in Bjelovar-Bilogor County more than a year ago have submitted several proposals, queries, etc., which are supported in the end and together with the club of representatives of national minorities discussed it. It is also about enrolment of mother tongue because we know that we also have a part of the citizenship of the Republic of Croatia that not only grows up from, in an older period, but also learns from a small age or speaks immediately 2 languages in the case of minorities represented by Croatian and Czech or Croatian or Slovaks where it is difficult to say especially in mixed marriages whether if the father is Slovak, the mother is Croat or the mother is Czech or the father is Croatian who is the mother tongue. Is that Croatian or Czech, then? Some of the European states have introduced the census and already in the past, the last census had the possibility to declare the meanings for 2 mother tongues here is one of those ballots and practices that was in the Czech Republic right here in front of us. On this side, and in our conversation with the representatives, we have expressed our proposal, which we would like to enter into this law, and we, as a representative club, will submit an amendment to the article of this law, because we think that in Article 14(a) of the Syntagma, the mother tongue should be changed in mother tongue, and by regulations then, by means of implementing acts, we should establish that it is possible to declare itself in 2 mother tongues. Likewise, since many of the rights of national minorities stemming from the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities or from other laws of the Republic of Croatia mean their first authorisation, as second consumption of these rights, is precisely dependent on the census of the population and on the number of people, regardless of their drowning in city councils, municipal councils, county councils, mayors or mayors, whether this establishment, the formation of national minorities' councils in the area of municipalities, cities, counties or themselves, regardless of the deputys, mayors or mayors or mayors, as well as parliamentary representatives and all others, but also other rights which are defined by this means, it is precisely up to this. And that is why the second part of this that we are proposing is the addition, which is in Article 22 as regards the appointment of controllers because we know that the county or the mayors as presidents of these bodies confirm the controllers, we would like to propose to introduce a new item which reads: "In the appointment of censuses in the areas of populated national minorities, it is mandatory to take care of the designation of censusors from the national minority represented in that area," and all of the ways and reasons for making it possible and more correct for the implementation of the census to be quickly completed in order to be efficient and, above all, to provide accurate data that will serve the meanings and statistics at the level of all Europe, but above all for the statistics and the exercise of rights here in the Republic of Croatia. Here, from this party, as I said, the National Minority Representatives Club will submit two amendments to this law that we think is essentially made in quality. We believe that the census will be conducted to the best extent, here we are for several months and in our plans we have put the parent associations of national minorities or local associations, we have put just promotion of the census, the importance of the census for the exercise of certain rights in the essence of the census for all of our citizens in the Republic of Croatia. On this side, we also provide a hand to the State Statistics Office, if necessary, we are also available to help you on the ground. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186378	Part two of the debate, Comrade Kajtazi. Here you go, buddy Kajtazi.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186379	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected representatives of the promoters, I will address in this second part the national minorities I represent. Finally, we have before us the Law on Census, Households, dwellings in the Republic of Croatia for 2021 as one of the most significant laws for all citizens, and of particular importance for members of national minorities. It is particularly important for the small minorities I represent, and it is of great importance for the rapidly growing Roma national minority, which is contrary to the dominant opinion very little benefit of the rights and remains the minority we know least about. The census was for all minorities and a painful topic, and they always associate me with war events or the fact that the Roma in the 1931 census numbered 14000 people and 1948. Only 405 people. The Jewish people of 1931. The list numbered about 20,000, 1948. The number is unknown, and 1953. Only 413 people. In 2011 is listed in the Republic of Croatia 509 members of the Jewish national minority, so unlike Roma, the Jewish people did not experience a demographic restoration. In some ways, new emigrations have favored the Roma, but other nations have not. I would mention that and the German national minority, 1931. Even 98990 Germans in the area of the Republic of Croatia, and before that in the Kingdom of Serbs and Croats and Slovenians almost half a million Germans, 1948. Only 10144 Germans, and in 2011 there are only 3,000 Germans with a tendency to reduce numbers as well as all other small minorities I represent. In the last 20 years, the paradigm has slowly changed, we are talking about the census in an effective context, and they are using it primarily to develop projects, plan, enjoy minority rights and so on, or so it should be. In this respect, national minorities and minority communities generally have a high expectation of the census, and in particular of the implementation in the direction of informing citizens, affirming minority topics and encouraging citizens, and informing about the importance of declaring minority belongings. In the business that I do, especially when we talk about state bodies projects aimed at national minorities, the census is the only relevant document. In the last 2 years. This was a major obstacle to the implementation of projects from the Government of the Republic of Croatia's operational programmes for national minorities in areas populated by minorities who did not girls in enough numbers on the last census. The census is also the only relevant document for the application of the right resulting from the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, which also includes the presentation of smaller bodies in local self-government or executive authorities, as well as the councils of minorities formed on the basis of a census, rather than voting lists on which I see clear deviations from official statistics. Unfortunately, the Ministry of Administration could not find a solution to this problem and cannot stress enough how important it is to create a good atmosphere in the coming periods and inform all citizens about the importance of the census. It should not be ignored that this list is an expensive project that will cost citizens more than 160 million kuna and that. 44th of this law states that funds must be used for purpose and rational purposes. Under the purpose of national minorities, they particularly consider it important to inform and encourage members of national minorities to be girls. What we're also going to insist on is that, in accordance with the article. The 11th law gives members of national minorities the right to see the list of lists in the language and letter of the national minority they belong to, and in particular I will ask for the right views in the Roma language, but also in the Romanian language, of course, in all other languages used by members of the Austrian, Bulgarian, German, Polish, Romanian, Russian, Russian, Ukrainian, Turkish, Vlach and Jewish national minorities. It is necessary for citizens to relax in a way that members of minorities who belong to the areas that settle employees and engage in all implementing bodies that the law provides for, whether it is a county, city or municipal level or at the level of the commission of listed centres of state and local self-government, censusors, coordinators, instructors, etc. In view of the problems in the field, for example in Međimurje, it would not be against the law to make it clear that national minorities should be included in all bodies, especially in the commissions, because their role is to inform the population in the list of areas for which the commission was established. Of course, minority organisations will invest all their capacities to inform members of their community, but it is too serious a question, and it must not be carried out on volunteer work. The role of the censusor is most important and they must be well informed and proactive in the environment, and inform citizens of the rights and possibilities of correct interpretation of forms and of the offer of translations in minority languages as additional encouragement for declaration. Their role is particularly important in explaining information on nationality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186380	Thank you, too, Agent Kajtazi, we continue to debate on behalf of the club of representatives, following is colleague Milorad Pupovac, on behalf of the SDSS Representatives Club, please welcome fellow Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186381	Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State and Mrs. Representatives of the Ministry of Finance, colleagues and colleagues, the census is an extremely important action for every society and every state, an extremely significant document, so that for days of time, it can see what the numerical state of the nation is in the important issues that the census sets out, especially when it comes to the population, but also other two important components. In this regard, it is extremely important that the list is carried out professionally and that those participating in the census are trained and prepared for it. Unfortunately, this was not the case with the 2011 census, at least in the context of individual sections and certain parts of the census and the experience we had before not full 10 years ago. Secondly, it is important that the processing of data does not last a year and a half as it lasted almost 10 years ago and that a year and a half of a day waits for the publication of the data and all of our work that we are doing today, you and we here in the Assembly with the adoption of this law by an emergency procedure, will be credible if the preparations are carried out so that there are no errors in data collection, that there are no questions that will lead to persons who are listed, for example, to confusion. in the case of religious membership, in the case of nationality, that there is no suggestion on how someone should be enrolled as it was the case that instead of Serbian nationality suggest that Croatian nationality be entered, that instead of Orthodox religion, it is suggested to enroll Greek Orthodox or similar, these are not things which would be allowed and for this reason the criminal provisions in the law are symbolic, they should be greater. And surveillance would have to be more serious because it's illegal by law and constitution. It is forbidden to prevent, suggest, religious or national belongings. This society has always been sensitive to these things and members of the majority people have been sensitive in different historical periods. This right of sensitivity should be guaranteed to members of national minorities. It's fortunate that because of the organization of individual minority communities these things were corrected quickly but only when we knew where they were happening. But let's go back to the bill itself. Unlike the law still in force, this bill does not define the population. Although the census is one of three basic data groups that are collected rather than referred to a regulation adopted by the European Commission or the EU, and then the elements of what the population really means are listed in that Regulation. And what of those who are listed will be treated as a population and what of those who are listed will not be treated as a population. We think that to better inform the population it should be made public, it should be stated, because the information of the population is one of the assumptions that the census goes well. So when the usual residence is said and who can be treated as part of the population according to the census and who will not be, who will remain in the archive building category, ever since we're working on the EUROSTAT methodology, I mean the census, it has to be clear to the censuses and it has to be clear, especially to the population. And that's why we ask you on behalf of the SDSS Club to make that data more clear so that people don't ask what Regulation No. 763/2008 and its point of view. 2nd and point a. That's got to stand. That's too important. The other thing is the verifibility and availability of data, the pieces must be classified and only especially authorised persons should be able to view these data. This bill, unfortunately, does not make it clear who has the ability to verify and see the data. Mayors, mayors, commissioners, to what level? In this matter, the law should be clearer and more specific because if it is not, then one of the fundamental constitutional regulations is being violated, and that is the right to privacy and confidentiality of information which only the authorised authorities of the State have when necessary. But not those who are not authorized to do so. The third thing is that of a colleague named Kajtazi, who was the president of the Club of Col. Bilek and the Vice-President of the Club of Minorities of fellow Kajtazi, the participation of members of the national minorities in the list. According to the recommendations of the EUROSTAT Conference of European Statistics, together with the European Commission's economic work, they recommend that members of national minorities be represented in the censuses and that is contained in one of the documents when the list was organised in 2011. That the largest possible number will be made possible in addition to the unemployed Croatian defenders, besides people who are unemployed for more than 12 months, that even members of national minorities in the environments they live in, that they will be allowed to meet the conditions of at least secondary school, handwriting, training, etc., to participate in this. We ask that this be introduced specifically in this law, and therefore this amendment, which has been prepared by the Club of Representatives of the National Minorities, is expected to be accepted. As for the issues most difficult during the previous census, this is a question of national, religious and native language for minority communities. The solution we had on the list or in the list was not the happiest and still... is written Croatian or Croat, Roman Catholic or Roman Catholic, Croatian and other. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In the preamble of the Croatian Constitution, 22 other than the Croatian people are listed 22 names of the national minority. The Croatian Constitution guarantees equality in the given circumstances except for the official language of Croatia and the letter of national minorities. There were cases that it was not respected in the lists. On the other hand, with suggestions that could come from the censusors when national and religious belongings were given false information. And that is why it is our suggestion, our suggestion that the censusors and the list of people offer that, apart from belonging to the majority people, offers and membership of national minorities listed in the preamble of the Croatian Constitution and belonging to religious communities that are recognised in the Republic of Croatia and which have contracts with the Republic of Croatia as religious communities, so that people can simply not say others but to be recognized. Why does it matter? Because the atmosphere in society is not yet such that we have tolerance for these differences. It's important. I'll say something in the end, if I have the time left, why is it bad not only for minorities but for the whole society and why the data aren't as good together looking as it should be. As for e-Citizens and the possibility that citizens, as far as the SDSS Club is concerned, of course, that the SDSS Club is in agreement with the amendment that has been prepared and invested on this matter, and we also expect it to be accepted. It is not clear from the law whether one member of the household can register the rest of the household when it comes to the use of e-listing by e-Citizens, and this should be done... if possible it should be made visible. And now something not about the law itself but about the methodology of the census, the list of forms and the training of the censusors. The methodology should be available as soon as possible and the checklists should be carried out according to the methods and other instructions of the DZS which define the preparation, organisation, implementation and processing of the list data. It is extremely important that the Institute adopts and publishes this methodology as soon as possible. As regards the list of forms, the questionnaire is an electronic form of the questionnaire, which collects data on persons, households and apartments, but still needs to be published. I think it is necessary for a successful list to be published as soon as possible so that everyone knows who is included in the list and for education and censuses and information of citizens. As far as censusing is concerned, the law or nothing or a little talk about censusing, which is important. We don't know if you've done anything about how you're going to remove or think about this lack in the law, but it's extremely important, as I said at the beginning, that the list be carried out professionally, and one of the assumptions of that professionality is that it is clearly defined how and how the censusors will be educated and introduced and prepared for the job. Finally, we all care about this list going well, we all care that this list does not bring information that will upset the general public with possible indicators that we have a population decline and that population decline continues. We also care very much that the census does not show a drastic decline of members of national minorities in the Republic of Croatia, as we care not to show even a drastic fall of members of the majority people, it is equally important to us. And for that I think there are two long-term assumptions, one long-term assumptions, and one short-term assumptions. In the long run, it's to stay away from those policies that make the most of the loss disorders in the population, which are wars. Wars, wars have the most impact on change and losses and focus on an economy that is another factor that affects that. If we have a weak economy, we lose the population, if we focus on growth in the economy, we get our own population and what comes to us as a labour force. The other thing I'm saying is the atmosphere. Tolerance and information is the assumption that the list goes well. In 2011, the atmosphere, unfortunately, was no longer like this in 2021, I'm not sure what it would look like.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186382	Thank you, fellow Pupovac. Before we continue the debate on behalf of the MPs' club. First, a colleague called Zekanovic for a break, then, I apologize. After that, he's a colleague of Bull's. [[Intruder Zekanovic: Dear Vice President...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186383	Croatian Parliament. I'm looking for a break from the Croatian Sovereigns' Club for further consultations on this law. I have to point out here, very interesting how Mr. Pupovac is helping here from the pay phone that we should stop the wars. Hello, so I think that the Croats were just about this last war, and all the other wars, the ones that were attacked, and that the people of your people had just conditioned, or caused war in our space. And now you make sure that during the census, it means March 31st, all of your crew who escaped after the Storm to Serbia, come nice to Knin, come to the Dalmatian Zagora and report falsely and be recorded by the census, let that Lasta do, let them drive those people who have left, and I recommend here, let it be entered into the population list another question. Whether I participated or participated in an aggression on the Croatian homeland, then let's see how quiet it will be. So let's see who was involved, who was it, who was affected by all this amnesty in our homeland.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186384	Comrade Bulj, you were the first to report, and your colleague is Pupovac. What, are you looking for a break? A fellow Pupovac, a fellow Pupovac? Excuse me. ... First, a colleague called Bulj. ... [[Specially enabled.]] First comes my colleague Bulj. Here you go, buddy Bulj. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186385	Thank you very much. I'd be looking for a 10-minute break on behalf of the Bridge Club. I would say immediately that politics will be seen on this list in 2021, where we will see this demographic breakdown where it is seen by already statistical indicators that the Croats have been evicted, that we have 5%, i.e. 6% of GDP from foreign donations because it's a targeted policy, like in the 1960s and Yugoslavia, to move people out to send money to you and it's devastating. There are 18 billion kunas in the Republic of Croatia from our people abroad, and that is the defeat of this policy, which will also show a list of demographic measures. The loss of politics where money from abroad from our best, those who moved out and went outside, sent to their families to spend and survive here. Although the prime minister kept saying that these were my ticks when I warned about this demographic fall, 2/3 of Croatia were empty. Also, a colleague of Pupovac mentioned here that national impatience in the Republic of Croatia is significant. No, the Croatian people do not suffer national minorities. The Croatian people gave the greatest constitutional protection to national minorities. The Croatian people have given you the opportunity to have eight parliamentary representatives who are now in the majority. And it's not Mr. Pupovac's fault, it's not the Croatian people's fault for war. Tell that to Vucic, the Chetnik, when he comes to Croatia, who together with Seselj has been harassing and doing great damages, to your people, to the Serbian people in Croatia, and also to our majority of the peoples of Croatia and to all national minorities, has caused huge damages, Chetnik, Vucucucic, Seselj, by conducting a large-scale Milosevic policy and should Tell him once the truth [[/Intruder Hajdash Doncic: Thank you. Thank you.]] Only for the sake of truth and co-existence [[Intruder Hajdash Doncic: Thank you, colleague Bulj.]] Thank you very much. [[/Intruder Hajdash Doncic: Col. Bulj, hello?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186386	Enough. It's been seven seconds. Here you go, fellow Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186387	The SDSS advocates' club is looking for a break because in the last few minutes such deep thoughts have been said and so original that we have never heard from anyone that our mental abilities and our perceptive abilities have been created by them and we must at least consider in those 10 minutes whether and how we can continue to participate in this debate because we have just been showered with the depths of some of our colleagues, those who do not see how much this depth and originality affects the fact that there are fewer Croats, fewer Serbs, fewer of all. And how much less, from day to day, because of their profound depth and their originality.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186388	Thank you. We have two injuries to the Rules of Procedure. So colleague Zekanovic and colleague Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186389	So, 238, 238. Comrade Pupovac, you have forgotten that you are in the ruling coalition with Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic and that you are responsible for this demographic situation because you are leading and managing deeply in one smart and wise way this country is demographically and every other failure. So you are in the ruling coalition together with the government, along with Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186390	Thank you. You've abused the Rules of Procedure, I'm giving you a warning. Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186391	Thank you very much. Injury of the Rules of Procedure due to no... This is all said by my colleague Pupovac, but because of the fact that he is one of the culprits of the Republic of Croatia in this situation because he is part of the ruling majority and the great demographic fall and the Dalmatian Zagora and Slavonia and Gorski Kotar and Like, you are one of the culprits because you are part of the majority together with Andrej Plenkovic, HNS, Sauchom and all of you and you are essentially [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] one of the culprits for the situation in Croatia. [[/Intruder Hajdash Doncic: Thank you. Thank you, Comrade Bull.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186392	So I'm giving you a warning too. Here you go, fellow Pupovac. Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186393	The same one you invited a fellow great and deep-minded Zekanovic to so if you are not guilty as a Serb, then you are guilty as a member of the ruling coalition. If you are not guilty as a member of the ruling coalition, you are guilty of sitting in the Croatian Parliament together with seven other MPs And it will be a great pleasure. [[Intruder Hajdash Doncic: Thank you.]] And pleased when in this House [[Intruder Hajdash Doncic: Thank you, weather.]] Minority members only [[Intruder Hajdash Doncic: Thank you.]] in the number of those represented in the House. [[Intruder Hajdash Doncic: Thank you, weather.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186394	Comrade Pupovac, thank you, thank you, time. I'm giving you a warning, too. Here's my colleague, Radin, the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186395	The National Minority Representatives' Club is looking for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186396	And I'm sorry. First, he was a colleague of Bacic's, an apology, I didn't see. Here you go, Comrade Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186397	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The HDZ Representatives' Club is seeking a 10-minute break to discuss this Census List Act once more. I understand that every time it comes to the census, the number of inhabitants in Croatia as one of the respondents is also the problem of demographicism, which is one of the very big challenges for each government and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, so when we talk about these challenges, then he would just say that this government has formed a special Ministry of Demography, that in the past 3.5 years a series of prodemographic measures have been adopted that need to stop emigration from one side and the birth of the Republic. In the past 3.5 years, what is special to single out is that more than 100% increased parental fees, 2600 to 5600 kn, were discussed several days ago in the Croatian Parliament. Not only that, these measures are not implemented only at the level of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, at the central level, they are implemented at the level of units of local self-government but thanks, in part, to the fact that through fiscal decentralisation the funds have been reduced to units of local self-government, so today they have a higher fiscal capacity and thus a number of mayors and mayors, a number of local self-government units introduce new innovative measures into the Republic of Croatia. And when we talk about this bickering which we have now witnessed a few minutes ago, it would be good to focus our discussion and our action precisely on the direction of carrying out a number of innovative measures and support the work of the Government instead of bickering in the Croatian Parliament, I don't think we're going to make much of a contribution to this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186398	Thank you, Comrade Bacic. Comrade Radin, here you go. Take a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186399	The National Minority Club is no longer looking for a break, he took the opportunity to consult now so we're not looking for a break. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186400	Thank you. Comrade Stazic, SDP club, break.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186401	The SDP Club is looking for a break so that we can agree at a club session to continue the debate on this important law in the first place. When is this House allowed to insult members of the Serb national minority in this law in one of the most primitive ways possible? And if it will determine tones of debate, then every debate in this law is completely pointless.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186402	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, here's your colleague, Grmo.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186403	I'm looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, so... 238, my colleague Stazic is false, so he's actually lying, nobody here, at least I haven't heard that he insulted members of the national minorities, I've heard that my colleague Bulj is talking about Alexander Vukic and large-serb politics. Many members of the Serb national minority participated in the defence of Croatia, are our fellow citizens whom we respect and appreciate so that such meals and lies brought here should certainly be sanctioned.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186404	Thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you. So, the Rules of Procedure are not injured, I'm giving you a warning. I'm also giving up until 12 o'clock and 10 minutes, thank you. ANNOUNCEMENT IN 11.54 HOURS
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186405	[[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING AT 12.12 HOURS]] The next club to be called for participation in the debate on the census is the Club of Representatives of the CNS, on their behalf will speak MP Stjepan Curaj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186406	I appreciate it, but... I thank the Honorable Vice President, Your Honor, First of all, I would like to say that I hope this is the last law of this kind and that this will become a relic as it should be. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] The census is a notary business as well as a relic of the last century with all its way, meaning and methods of data collection. The data we can all agree on is extremely important, which tells us where we've been and where we're going. When we talk about where we were, it's a cross-section on the day of signing all of what led us on that day, as far as all of the statistical indicators that can be placed in 3 units, population, households, apartments or numbers, the spatial layout of the population and basic demographic, educational, migration, economic and other characteristics, as well as the characteristics of households and dwellings themselves, that's the point. As we came to that, we used to go, list something that was our main source of information. We today, I dare say, almost 90% of that information we already have. When we look at the institutions of the MUP associated with state administration offices in different categories of, above all, parent records, when we look at tax administrations, when we look at educational institutions, so when we look at local self-government units, then we get 90% of the data that we're actually looking for in this list, and then of course the question is whether we really need this list in today's IT world because I believe that the nationality that is declared also in certain documents can't change, but we can find another model to declare that as well as religious. We, and translated, data on our incomes are tax-based, data in our education system are recorded on the basis of public documents and systems of the Ministry of Science and Education, data on our ownership also tax through the OIB, data on the number of household members, residence, residence, MUP and home records, married, divorced, temporarily absent, so local self-government units, social benefits, public fees, etc. etc. So when we talk about some e-gruntling, cataster and everything else, we actually just get the need to compile all the data that already exists. That's why I think this is a relic, what's good, what this relic is going into step with technology because enabling, what I said and in the replica, the possibility of self-entering through the E-Citizen system is exactly that. 77 data and various documents can now be obtained through that system, this is going to be 78. Currently in the Republic of Croatia with 31.12 or 1.1. 4881+- a citizen has an open e-pretinic or registered as an e-Citizen. If we know how many minors we have, how many adult citizens we have, then we see that actually the goal of that promotion and how to save money first of all and time because it's supposed to be this electronic one from April 1st to May 7th. So one first step and it's not the promotion of people to know that they can do it but to increase the number of users e, the system of e-citizens, it should be the first step to raise those 800 000 to over a million. The second step is to inform them, inform them through various channels of communication. That's where I suggested to see whether tax reliefs, in a way to stimulate the use of generally these systems because they are more economical, more efficient, more transparent,... I say more effectively we think far faster, that these documents, the confirmation of impunity, various, 77 of them today have from tax, various various certificates of debt, etc., you get as credible documentation and you can carry it into any body although today, unfortunately, one state body asks another state body for confirmation which is nonsensical. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] What's nonsens? That you carry something in, in, to the Ministry of Justice which issued either vice versa or to the Office of State Administration for various offices for economies, associations etc. something that is from the Ministry of Justice you carry information, that is what we need to eliminate, that they should systematically demand, get, as little walking as possible, as little burden on citizens, as little paper as possible, as little mark and at that is done,... I'm not saying now that everything's not right, but that's all I want to put in the context of this list. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] What I'm having a problem with is when someone fills out who's registered somewhere else, his nominal residence is in a household, a residence somewhere else, so he fills out an e-log, and he's the same person who, when a censuser comes to him, has a parent who has a son who is that, that, that, or the reverse situation. There's just a need to see how they're going to look and compare who they're going to be, I think that those data that are being verified in e-Citizens have both that identification and the level of security and that it should be priority, but there's only a little implementation to pay attention. But as far as I'm concerned today, we should have the exact information about everything, absolutely everything. You on the basis of, say, only when you have a local self-government unit based on a cut you have information about who lives, the IRS has different rates for different cities and it has to be known and listed. Today you can't pay a salary regularly by passing a single data processing form, for these other gray economies I won't even mention it. So you have I believe that over 90% of the requested data you can now come from existing systems that are not, of course, united, who need it. And that's why I'm saying that I believe this is a relic and that I hope this is the last census in the Republic of Croatia in this way. Because something we write today is already something else, it's no longer like it used to be a hundred years ago when it was done today people change cities within a year, change jobs, change professions, change whatever it is, mobility is much bigger, progress has made it possible, special membership in the EU and it's quite questionable whether the cut of one day or that month of censusing... on one day will really give us real data, and the rest of the year while we analyze it, everything can change in certain specifics, including residences or residences and the number of people in a certain space, and economic incomes, everything that I'm not telling us about right now. And what I started with, why does it matter? It's very important to us, it's important that we know where we were and what all the actions that led us to this and where we are today. Good policies, bad policies, external influences, wars, anything else that affects the individual and then the people as a whole and all that we want to be, what trends we want, how to correct them, how many educational structures, literacy, average wages, number of children, movement, migration whatever, extremely, extremely important data. But as important as they are, we don't need to be cemented in one piece of the moment in 10 years. Today, the data is not today but in the last five years of 2011 it means almost nothing anymore, it's not worth a lot of change. And yet, according to them, some things are decided, according to them, they are basic parameters for some important things in the state and units of local self-government if we talk about belonging to a particular national minority and the rights of national minorities to certain rights, votes, number of votes, etc. and all that is dragged out of the number of people in a certain territory, and all that is else. So I believe that what we're going to do next year from April 1st to May 7th will be the last time in such a way, but that doesn't mean that it should be easy to understand that list. It is necessary to inform citizens, to instruct them and to use this reason to include as many people as possible in the system of e-Citizens, to get the pathways of e-mail and certain channels of electronic communication, to inform the state authorities that citizens are as involved as possible, and all with a common denominator as efficient and economical government. In conclusion, of course, the HNS club will support this Bill on Census, Households and dwellings in the Republic of Croatia, since it is also stated in the law that this and the next two years 160 million kuna for the DZS to process and make, among other things there are promotions from that census itself, ways of listing, but there is another nearly 14 and some million kuna for the State Geodetic Authority, so total it costs us 173, four million kuna depending on how much cost it really is foreseen. I believe that in one smart way we can not only reduce that cost that is not small, but over a period of 10 years it is negligible in relation to all that we need and which are billions and hundreds of billions of revenues. But what's more important is that we have one system of united data monitoring on a daily basis or on a weekly or monthly basis, that statistical reports at the monthly level of monitoring population movement, age of population, education of population, migration, economic and all other indicators, and all the data we have. We have them today and we publish them in one way or another, we just need to find a model of how to bring it all together into one system that would then be a monthly indicator of what is most important to us to see where we're going, what changes are happening and what are the effects of our work here and the laws that we're making. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186407	The Club of Representatives HSU-SNAGA-Independent Representatives and New Politics will be reported on their behalf by MP Žagar, who shared his presentation with representative Orepic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186408	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable secretary of state, director with associates, colleagues and colleagues. A few words about this bill. I will be something more critical, of course not only applies to the people present today who defend this law because I think that this law has no choice but to accept it in the Croatian Parliament because the list must be made that is our obligation, and since the European Commission is looking at the annual reporting level, it is very important to do so. But there is one important problem in Croatian society that is not being solved systematically and it has been years and years and we could even use a word that, let me a little rough, that this has already become a simple shame. Namely, here are some examples. In Sweden, through the population register, 95% of immigration and 91% of emigration were able to track, in Norway the accuracy of residence in the population register is 97%, so with 97% of security they know where who is who and when in Norway. We in the Republic of Croatia don't know who is where and when. We depend on the Republic of Germany to obtain information on how many of our citizens have gone to work in the Republic of Germany, such data cannot be collected alone. For example, that Denmark has a million inhabitants more than Croatia and there is, listen well to 500,000 social housing, we can't based on this data, so I even doubt the data the next list will make, we won't be able to make an active housing policy. Everything that has been done in the Republic of Croatia and through encouraging measures with the right of people say that these encouraging measures have gone towards banks, not towards citizens, according to banks listen to me well. When we look at apartments and POS we see from the last affair how many of these apartments have been sold. The essence of the whole story is in the following, we need to know about everything that's going on in the Republic of Croatia. Today, let me put it this way, we act like people who acidify the cabbage and put the computer in place of the camera to put the computer down to press that cabbage. We're about a billion kuna by now, and in fact, it's all going to be a billion kunas that we're going to spend on developing a digital society. Where did we go? My colleague Curaj used to talk about different systems that exist in different databases, we can't unite and we can't cover it together. And in the Republic of Croatia, there are young educational people, out of this 150 million 160 as many as in these three years, to call a competition you'll get 100 young people who can do this job in three days' time. RH has to do something, we all need to get serious together, this way we're not gonna get rid of it. Information technology as high-level technology is available, it is available today and can be reached. We can't make cars that will be competitive on the world market, we can't make planes or planes because unfortunately we haven't been able to buy them yet, but we can use IT. Today there are software solutions, hardware solutions, there are again emphasising young educational people who can combine that data that doesn't happen to us what's happening to us now, yesterday, the day before yesterday on Company Street, it's not my question, the minister today says there's going to be pensions, but when you see that pile of data, that pile of paper in the halls actually asks yourself what we're doing. I asked the lady in the catastrus how far the process of unifying the catastrophe and the garter said she hadn't even started yet. These are things we rarely talk about, and we constantly try to show and create an impression in society that we are going towards informing society, digitising how our systems are united. Tax administration still uses the MS DOS system, it's not a problem in the MS DOS system, don't get me wrong, the database is a database, but there are today and programming languages and I say again professional young people to unite these things would know at any moment who lives in the Republic and what owns it. Here we could conclude from the last census that from the 1970s to the 1980s the largest dwellings were made in the Republic of Croatia in 10 years from 2001 to 2011 from those dwellings that according to the list had no bathroom, in 2011 the number dropped to about 30 thousand in 10 years. Perhaps we could conclude that water supply infrastructure was made, that people could therefore join the water and then build these systems. These are some data that will help us and in this list to better solve these things. And now to point out the main grudge, the list itself says this one process in which citizens are passive, and someone actively lists them as during Maria Teresa. Now there is technology again, there is interactive television, and let alone no interactive applications in which citizens can register themselves, and this proposal, I welcome, this bill shows that this model from April 1st to April 12th will apply. But the minister says that only 750,000 citizens use the system, it's a small number, the system of e-Citizens. It is very good for citizens to take an active role and they to enroll. Now, my key observation, 150 and over 160 million kunas, so imagine now that we send these 160 million kunas to our local self-government units, they say there are too many of them every day, every municipality or city could get 300,000 kuna on average. For 300,000 kuna I guarantee you, not that they will list their apartments and people, they will also list those birds that fly across the municipality. They should be given jobs and adequate funds and they will do so, it will be the basis for the population register, it will be the basis for the municipal fee, it would be the real basis of the state secretary when Minister Maric here had to withdraw, it is the right basis for real estate tax, when we have accurate data. This way we don't have the exact information or we don't know. What we can figure out from the last list is that we've had about an apartment since '81. by 2011 the same number, but the number of holiday homes increased, some economic or other facilities increased. We will now see on this next list what is actually going to happen in the Republic of Croatia which should be the basis for all policies and housing policy, and then ultimately demographic policy. But I deeply believe until the digitization of society is raised to a higher level, until we are actively involved in this work. These data won't go in real time, there'll always be delays and we won't actually know what's going to happen. And maybe I don't know, I wasn't at the beginning if it was said which way this was going to start and actually when the population registers were going to start to know more about it. A colleague of the Orepic will continue.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186409	Before my colleague Orepic continues, I would like to welcome the students and students of Bernardina Frankopan School of Education from Ogulin, who are now with us at the gallery. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186410	The Honorable Chairman, State Secretary with Associates, what I'm essentially saying to you is that the dynamics of data exchange today tell all of us in itself that this list and every future list in this way are pointless. 1. The next year, all the data we write will not match the truth, will be changed in one way or another. I'll just give you a couple of some, I believe in numbers and try to show you some relationships. So after the Homeland War, 134,000 Croatian documents were distributed to people who left the Croatian state, but 250,000 minimum documents were distributed to people who never lived in Croatia at all. And we came up with a number of attention, which means some 384,000 people who shouldn't have Croatian documents should not be listed, and they are calculated into the total population of the Republic of Croatia. Elemental data, we have about 4 million 147 thousand health insurance people in the Republic of Croatia, which simply does not correspond to the truth, which is not true, which is not consistent with the number of inhabitants in the Republic of Croatia. The 2007 elections, watch only the numbers and make your own conclusion. 568,097 were more voters, people with electoral rights than adult persons listed in the 2001 census. The 2011 elections, watch what was spent in April 2011 had 605,827 voters more than the adult in the Republic of Croatia who were listed in April 2011, so actually the list was in April, and the elections in the 12th month. The amazing figures that point to a whole series of clear, hard arguments to direct us to simply this 162 or 4 million kunas that we're going to throw at this list are not to throw away but to delay this list process to direct ourselves to the voters' register. We have time to organize ourselves as a society and as a state, and to do so next year, we go into the process of creating a register of all the data that implies this list because, as counterpart Curaj said, 90% of that data we have. When we approach this way we'll realize that literally this one, I'm going to caricate a little bit and say the ominous method just cuts off with common sense. People in April, during April next year until 12.5, the census will be dropped by 162 million kuna. Literally. Because these data we're going to collect, I'm stressing the 1.6 next year won't be useful to anything, absolutely for anything. They'll have some kind of, we'll have some dimensions that will be in creating this list of mistakes that simply won't be credible, we'll lie to ourselves, and then as we lie all the time, especially when it comes to a list of voters. In another detail, right now, no one in the Republic of Croatia knows how many citizens we have in the Republic of Croatia. Scary thing, 21st century, information, digitisation, bodies such as MUP, State Statistics Office, Ministry of Administration, State Election Commission, all those people who should give the same number of voters, who should give the same number of voters, give here at this point you will get 4 different data. And now I don't want to attribute this to any politics at all. I want to say that this and these problems that are the issue of the elemental organization of society, which is a matter of sound logic, which is a matter of common sense, let's let people stop lying to themselves. Let's agree all together and say from next year we'll all know at all times how many residents there are in this country, let's say we have so many health insurance companies, we have so many adult people. So are we aware that at the moment we have 14 cities or municipalities in which we have more inhabitants than the number of voters or the number of voters from the population is incredible. And that goes all the way, all the state bodies, the institutions that we like to say, and nobody, nobody does anything. Please, I invite you on behalf of our club to withdraw this law, invite you all together as a society to go and organise ourselves to go into the process next year of creating voter registers, we have time, we have money, and thus this banal problem and in this banal problem we say that we, as one common political, political body of the Republic of Croatia, can agree. I hope we can and I hope it's in everyone's best interest to know how many residents we have. Here, I hope that as a society we have come to this stage of development that this is a common interest and that this may be the result of a political consensus at this point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186411	The club of representatives of Croatian sovereigns and independent representatives Zeljko Glasnović and Zlatko Hasanbegovic, applied for participation in the debate, Croatian representative Zekoanovic will speak on their behalf.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186412	The Honorable Vice-President, respected state secretary and associates, we are talking about the census, so the census with him establishes the number and structure of the population of a country, region or even this and the continent or community of states such as the EU. And it's a very important document, and it's supposed to work, and here we do it every 10 years. And that's one established rule actually in the world every 10 years. And the methodology itself isn't bad, it's not bad, so it's methodologically well done with me having to say here we still have different approaches in some countries, specifically as regards nationality. So in some countries, for example. In France, all French, so the concept of the French nation is known. In the Republic of Croatia no matter what you live in the Republic of Croatia, you are not a Croat, you are either a Serb or a Roma, you can be a Croat, of course, but in some countries you are not. In America, we also have this notion, so that all of them are actually Americans regardless of their origins. We can think about it a little bit if tomorrow and introduce it as one category, and by law we actually define it, so we won't have any more members of the national minority in this way in the assembly because it's crazy that, regardless of the voter's support, someone participates in this House, and all those who think they're worth running on any party's list and on equal terms, go to the elections and get them into HS on equal terms. I'm saying this, why is this logical, but here I have to refer myself to, here, the presentation of my colleague Milorad Pupovac, who, in this great, profoundly, almost narrated here from this pay phone, as usual, as if he were begging Andrej Plenkovic for money for his news, for example, it was as heartwarming as ever, so moving that here I'm still under the impression of his presentation here. And when he pointed out that it was good and most important that there were no more wars, great, now that the Serb national minority never raises up arms again and let it not attack its state of the Republic of Croatia. And what I said, I really think, would be just as interesting to see the structure of those people who participated in the rebellion against the Republic of Croatia, so there's this question, let's put that question, if we also have a register of Croatian defenders, why don't we also have a Chetnik registry, why don't we have a register, those who fired guns at their countrymen, pardon their fellow Croatian citizens, but even their countrymen and Serbs have defended them, many Serbs have defended their homeland, I would also like to have that thing, and that's the thing recorded in the census. What Orepić pointed out, I will agree with one part, so we have one illogicality, now we have 4284000 inhabitants, right, 4284000 inhabitants, and the voters have 3 million 854 whether it is possible that all the voters of the Republic of Croatia or here are menus, I would actually not agree with him in one thing because he here separates the emigrated Republic of Croatia from the National Republic of Croatia. These Croats were good for you outside the Republic of Croatia when it was necessary to defend the Republic of Croatia, when it was necessary to finance the defence of the Republic of Croatia, and when it comes to giving them some right, then it's no good. I am in favour of the Republic of Croatia being one electoral unit, so that all those who have Croatian citizenship, wherever they live, where fate has taken them, may vote for a single list, that would be my best guess. So, what is evident, and here I have to point out the number of residents in the Republic of Croatia unfortunately falls, with 4784000 in '91. 20 years old. That number fell by half a million, half a million and that's what's the big problem, I know it's not the subject of this law, but it's clear that this figure is going to be even smaller and that the Republic of Croatia today has fallen below 4 million people. In the end, we'll have, we'll literally have a state without people. And regardless of what we're talking about here exclusively about the census as a single legal solution that's not bad, I have to point out here that this is the biggest problem that we have as a state, which is the demographic problem, this government, this government where we have SDP waste, where we have HNS, we have Milorad Pupovac, we have Furia Radin and the team, so she's done absolutely nothing. So, the number of inhabitants in the Republic of Croatia is increasing and the fertility rates are increasing, the birth rate is increasing, and even we have it here is increased and constantly high mortality, which eventually causes the population to fall. So, I would like to repeat, in a good way, to register both the population of Croats and Croats who live and out of state because they have the right to mean because they are citizens of the Republic of Croatia, I don't know how you're going to do it to know exactly how many of these people there are, and as far as national minorities are concerned here, and here I have offered a solution. So that if that solution is introduced then we will no longer have this one incorrect choice of representatives in the Croatian Parliament that someone can be elected to the Assembly just because he is a member of a nation or a national minority.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186413	The Club of Representatives of the SDP also signed up to participate in the debate. In their name will be a representative of Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186414	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, respected state secretaries on the first page of the status assessment and issues to be regulated by the law and the consequences that this law will bring forward are said to take place. According to the list, data collected by the census are necessary for the implementation of various economic, social, demographic, development and other policies and scientific research. To be honest, it is incorrect, what we will remember the list of 2021 will also be the one by which we remembered the 2011 census, how few Croats in Croatia and how few Serbs in Vukovar. It will only be two topics most discussed in this list. When I say in this first Croat, I mean Croatian citizens, and when I say this second under the Serbs, I mean members of the Serb national minority to define themselves. Namely, the list defines the political rights of members of national minorities in Croatia and this debate that we had the opportunity to see before the break in fact showed what the emphasis would be on. We will also receive this number of households and standards in them, number, I don't know what all of them define, so also the number of rooms in the apartment, kitchen and bathrooms and toilets, type of installation in the apartment, plumbing, sewerage, electricity, gas installations, way of heating the apartment, type of energy, air conditioning, etc., that's what will be stated as a statistical fact. And what will be referred to as a political fact is how many and all of which are in Croatia, how many of us are less than 10 years ago and who have the right to use their national minority's language and letters with a special emphasis of course on Cyrillic in some places. If the state can't provide accurate data then it's better to list and not implement, so we'll use the 2011 list. Therefore, our support for this law will also depend on the position of the National Minority Representatives Club in this law and the fate of their amendments. I'm surprised that the government sent representatives of the Ministry of Finance for such a sensitive topic in Croatia, I told the secretary of state, and when I saw him, I was surprised by what he was doing under this law, so I expected someone from the Ministry of Administration or someone from the Ministry of Administration. But well, this is the right of the government to appoint a representative, at least to appoint a representative and propose a law unlike some other laws. Of course, let's first see what is, so which persons are listed. Article 4(4) states that persons who are listed are natural persons who are nationals of the Republic of Croatia, foreign nationals and stateless persons who have residence in the Republic of Croatia and persons who are in, and persons who have residence in the Republic of Croatia at the reference moment of the census. By listening to the debate of counterpart Zekanovic and once again reading this item, the score has been placed so that it cannot be determined with 100% certainty whether persons who are citizens of the Republic of Croatia are all or are related to this part of them that have residence in the Republic of Croatia. So this one, so maybe it was written to me in the previous law relating to the 2011 census, and then maybe not, then maybe the interpretation can be concluded, but I guess the proposer also thought of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia who have a residence in the Republic of Croatia because the law is also called on the census, etc. in the Republic of Croatia. The second question is which, therefore, is what the state wants to determine, which data is collected by the census. These are also cited as what was, which was therefore a debate and nationality, or nationality precisely because the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities and other laws concerning the rights of national minorities, some political rights determine a census for some. This also applies to representation in representative bodies of local self-government units and representation in executive bodies or to the right, the right to choose to be members of national minorities, but also members of Croatian people where they are, where they are by number less represented than any other people. So this list also regulates the rights of Croats and the right to use language and letters. Therefore, this census will have 2021 as it had certain political consequences in 2011. What they may be we have seen in the case of the use of the language and letters of the Serb national minority in Vukovar. So, we've had protests, one signing assembly for the referendum and several judicial proceedings with a different ending. And a few decisions of the Constitutional Court, where the Constitutional Court tried, it failed him, though, I think it would be better and have a little bit sharper attitudes, but maybe it's mine, my only point of view on this matter. Therefore, the census should be taken seriously, systematically not to leave any doubt about the correctness of the census results, for example, for the 2011 census, for example, Mr Galic's mayor in Vukovar-Srijem County, so after the results of his HDZ colleagues were published, they disputed the accuracy of the list. So all kinds of combinations were possible. In these areas, and by doing so, I mean the territory of Croatia and neighbouring countries and neighbouring countries of neighbouring countries, the census is not just a statistical operation. In BiH today they have not yet defined what the results of the census, the last one, I think it was in 2013 or when it was because the Federation has one methodology, and Republika Srpska has another and each one naturally looks at that methodology that is more appropriate for certain political goals. I therefore hope that the census in the Republic of Croatia in 2021 will be completed, completed and results published in accordance with the law and that after these, the publication of these results will have no further questions, questions and doubts as to what we are already inclined to do in everything that has an international or multinational sign in the Republic of Croatia and, in that sense, the position of the SDP Club will depend on the Government's position on amendments to the Club of National Minorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186415	The Live Wall Representatives' Club and Change Croatia also appear for participation in the debate. Agent Ivan Lovrinović will speak for them. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186416	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives of the Ministry of Finance and others. Companions and colleagues, respected citizens. I can safely say here that almost no statistics in Croatia are correct and they are more or less problematic, they are increasingly more or less problematic. For example. Public debt data are not correct. We from the party Change Croatia do not like to talk by heart. If we say anything, then we should, and we always make arguments. Why the public debt information is not correct first. They say he's 298 billion kuna, it's official. However, over the past month, it has been reported that 9 billion kunas have irrevocable claims or debts from hospitals, the health system. Here, it's not included in the public debt. The debt of Zagreb Holding and other means of companies owned by local self-government is also not in the public debt. This is about preparation today, so the census, it's an important job, it's going to be a lot of work, but we're asking the question, what are we going to have of it, and is that even going to be true? A few minutes ago, one of our colleagues said that our number of health insurance companies in Croatia was not right. There are more health insurance companies almost than there are residents in Croatia. So how is this health system going to work means that they are not necessarily lists, or databases when they are not prepared properly. In a country where statistics aren't true, if they're not real, it's impossible to plan in that country. It is impossible to lead a consistent, meaningful and economic policy and a common policy. We advocate to regulate certain principles related to the census. Why? Because first of all, when we talk here in the Parliament, we talk about the political system, the election, the politics. The census depends, after all, on how many citizens will be on the voter list. Now, therefore, not waiting for 2021 when there will be a new census, we have noticed, we see that it is currently on the polling lists of nearly voters as many inhabitants in Croatia, so it turns out that babies are also voting. So this is an incredibly large manipulation and we can't, so the electoral system is based on it. That's what it's based on. What else is in our party to change Croatia unacceptably, see? We are now warning the Constitutional Court, the DIP, in the Law on Elections, according to, if we stick to the law, these elections for, parliamentary elections cannot be held this year. Why? Because that's what it says, after all, that's how election units were formed. In election units, it must be almost the same, so at least the differences in the number of voters should be by law. However, because of large migrations over the past few years, and the number of voters per individual election units has been drastically damaged and thus, legal provisions that cannot be put into effect for parliament this year have been violated. However, you see, respected citizens, no one is questioning that. And we know why. Because the electoral system, the Election Law, is fully adapted to the parties that have led Croatia so far because they have, you know, they intend to rule Croatia until the day of judgment, you know, like they'll never get away with anything and they're not interested. First of all, what we have to do first is completely transform this electoral law, the electoral system, and here we are talking about statistical activity, which will be implemented in 2001. Mobile voters, see? Mobile voters. Documents have been distributed to our countrymen who live in BiH, which is not, I don't see it as a big problem. But then you can just vote there. So it's the 11th electoral unit, as well as in all other countries of the world. However, we have as needed, buses, there-there-there, cars, fuel is paid and so on. Well, look, it's this clientelism, it's this political crime, and I'm convinced that a few of the 151 MPs here in the Parliament, I can't say exactly what, 4 to 6, here somewhere, must be the result of these border crossings there and here. It's under the authority of the Ministry of Management, of the Ministry of Management, of the MUP, of course we won't tell in half a year, in a year. the days very clearly determine who lives somewhere, who doesn't stay and make a reliable list means voters. Then the picture of the election would be different, but you see, for a long time, I've been tormented by one thought, a question, so how come nobody understands it in this government until I get into politics, and now I'm a dear citizen, and I've decided that this is the best system, a mess, untrustworthy data, why, because that's where they're best at. So I can interpret them one way or another. Well, it's high time to say goodbye to one of those practices, to leave it, we have to turn the board, but dear citizens, it's all up to you, it's all up to us. So, I call on you to review in the next elections, first of all, the conditions for holding parliamentary elections in Croatia in the autumn of this year because I am convinced and convinced, it is easy to check, that the number of voters per individual election units is drastically violated and according to the legal provisions should not be held. If they are going to try, try everything to make it, then the respected citizens, go out in mass to the elections and finally turn the new page in Croatia, say goodbye to false statistics, break down and change this electoral system that has made it convenient and simply we from the party change Croatia invite you to do it together, to change. You can't have 2, 3 MPs or 5 who are trying to fight for you, for the interests of citizens of debt problems, bank relations, National Bank, Election Law, etc., so we can't, on Fridays, raise our hands, mean 76 votes solve everything, solve everything, we need to figure it out, and I invite you to make sure that your relatives, friends, our people, neighbors, friends, get them out, exploit their civil rights, I assure you, we can't change anything until we do that. If we don't do that, there won't be statistics right, but I've set up a whole series of examples where the statistics are missing, we don't know, we don't have the right state of things. So, enough manipulations, lies, distorted data, we have to face the truth, I've told certain groups, and the parties corresponds to such a non-conceptional state, one anarchy, a polycosol because they are masters of such a way of managing the state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186417	The next individual participation in the debate, the first representative to come forward, is MP Djujic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186418	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Well, the census is implemented essentially every 10 years, and this law is the basis for us to implement a list that goes on in the second year because it is also in line with some European regulations, European Commission directives and some newspapers that we do not have compared to the previous year. What I want to highlight in this law and what follows us on the next census, it is this one as the largest newspaper announced digital format, so without a censusor and this is consistent with the digitisation and monitoring of modern trends in the world and I welcome it anyway. However, what I want to show myself in this debate, and something about it was said by my colleagues before me, which is that the census is a statistical issue, and that we are now going through the census to actually list people, we are going to list apartments, we are going to list houses, we are going to have property that they have, and on the other hand we have a whole series of lists in a country that are unsettled, uncoordinated, that don't overlap with each other. The biggest problem is that my colleagues spoke before me, and that's a list of voters, so that's one problem that the state hasn't been able to solve for the last 30 years, and here, in my city we have some 300, 400 voters more than we have, and that shows that it's not good, and that opens up space manipulation in certain election processes and opens up suspicion with our citizens. The second thing also opens the issue and the review of election laws, so when we talk about the vote of people who do not live in Croatia, for example. Here is Israel, Israel, which is once our role model in some environments, they have the same diaspora that votes but they have to vote so that that day of elections has to go down on the ground of Israel, so maybe it's some kind of model that we should be discussing in the future, but in any case, I don't know what to do with the census if the data we get there isn't accurate. So if there are no control mechanisms that will then see later whether it's right or wrong, then I don't know what to do at all. Not to say that the last time we spent our census in 2011 we waited 2, 3 years for the results of that list and then we still had an unsettled situation after that. So here I am, essentially, with regard to this law itself, there are no big objections, and I'm joining this everything that my colleague Bauk said before me on behalf of the club of MPs, so these political issues that he's opening up to this law, and that's going to come out of it, but here I'm appealing to you to the representatives of the Government here even though here, the Ministry of Finance, we've heard here, we should still be representatives of maybe the Ministry of Administration, the Ministry, and then the Ministry of Interior, the State Bureau of Statistics, so these are now those topics that, which are there, but still, you're representatives of the Government, here I am appealing to you, get a little bit of all the lists in the Republic of Croatia that perhaps, at some reasonable time, today, especially when we have this digitalisation and, and, and the ability of the computer that, that these lists, that these lists are more accurate and that you are overlap, especially, the voters. We in the world already have countries where digitally people vote, so through this system of e-citizens that we have, there is a code, and we can vote in elections, we don't have to physically come to the polls, so we have this in the world, and we can't still have that in me because we have these unsettled polling lists, where we have unsettled other data, and basically because of all of this, the forest in the data we're doing, we're opening up a space for possible manipulations and suspicions which then create some bitterness amongst the citizens, and in order to avoid that we should in the future seek a better and more accurate display of all this data, and I appeal to you in the future that we try to focus a little more on that part and try to try these problems as soon as possible to solve this and not actually leave a millimeter of possibility for doubt. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186419	A representative of the Vesligai has requested a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186420	Thank you, Vice President HS. Well, here's fellow Djujic, I certainly believe that we should conduct a natural census, not only to determine the number of inhabitants, which must be the most important thing that is carried out through the census, but also to us and the data that we receive through the census later I think can be good at creating some development policies for a long time, in a long-term sense. But what I think is most important at this stage right now is one good and quality preparation, and I am now talking perhaps from a local leader's point of view that I would like to know in advance all those obligations that I will have, cities and municipalities that in the good part provide one technical support that this census is done in one more quality way, so I think that maybe cities and municipalities should be a little more involved in these proposals that we are discussing here because that is the only way that we can make this list in that scope and in one sense how it really should be.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186421	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186422	Well, that's right, fellow Vesligaj, so I've read some of the announcements from this law in the media last year, which means that this law is bound to be talked about for a long time and for some year already, and that's why I'm sorry to say that it's an emergency procedure, here's what might have been considered to go into 2 readings, because lately a lot of the laws in this high house go into 2 readings, I don't see why and this couldn't have been done in that way, so maybe by summer we can discuss it in, in, in, two times, so that in that period, the cities and the municipalities and the municipalities, or those who are going to be the bearers of all of it, here maybe, and the representatives of the government might not be able to think it's too late, so we'll try to organize this third reading, so if there's some kind of need, I see that it's weirded you, but I think there's enough time, so I think there's still have enough to get a better solution in this case.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186423	A representative, Branko Bacic, also appeared for individual participation in the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186424	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State with Associates. - Mrs. Crescent. Branka Juričev expressed her position on behalf of the club this morning, the HDZ Representatives Club, I will say a few more words about the population census itself, and since I was also involved as co-ordinator in the area of Dubrovnik-Neretva County in 1991 and 2001. Therefore, the census is a legally regulated collection of statistics on individuals and individual members of the population on a particular territory of any country, or in another area for which it is defined by the Register of Space Units, the area for which the census is conducted. The census is a data which, based on a specific time, is a fixed date in these already longer population censuses, which is 31 March at 24 hours and that data is relevant for that moment, not a year before, not a year later. So I'm a little surprised that this problem is that it's a register of voters, which is a census, there's a large number of other records in the Republic of Croatia, we have the number of income taxpayers, we have the number of taxpayers paying pension or health contributions, there are other numerous records in the Republic that are intended for a particular activity. The census is, is a record that is carried out every 10 years. in developed countries, especially when anomalies and deviations are from, from, from, such a 10.g. time interval. For the purposes of certain countries, but this is less important now, and it serves as a basis for a number of other, numerous other policies in the country, were economic, demographic, social, developmental, any other policy based on the population list which is the only systematically processed record kept by the State Statistics Institute, based on scientific, scientific approach, and how to process the data collected on the ground, whose collection takes as we have seen the month, month and a half in this case with this census. And that record is necessary, it also benefits us here in HS and other state bodies and institutions, and everyone interested in being able to access any activity properly in any way when conducting certain research or analysis or when trying to find programmes, guidelines, how and in any way to implement individual policies, and therefore certainly the population register is very important. What should also be mentioned here are listed state bodies in the very law that are, which support the census itself. What is particularly important to point out is that responsibility for the implementation of these, this census process lies clearly on the county, city, municipal and municipal owners of the executive authorities who are only in the system of censusing the population. In addition to them, it seems clear to all the many, it seems that around 9,500 Croatian citizens will be included either as censusors or as instructors, as coordinators, controllers who will check that they are carrying out this census according to the law. It is also important to highlight the role and position of the State Geodetic Authority which keeps records of spatial units and for which records are used clearly to identify both static circles and lists. The census circle, if I am not mistaken, makes up about one area which the censuser can list in the time provided for by the Census Act, so that I reached about at the level of Croatia the same number of inhabitants to be able to fulfil the task that stems from the Census Act itself. When we talk about the census and when we talk about the voters' register, then we should say that the register of voters changes daily. It makes the register of Croatian citizens who live in the Republic of Croatia and who are also Croatian citizens who are outside the Republic of Croatia, but it is known at all times, so for example, we knew that even now during this last referendum that applied to the pension system and age limit of 67 years, it is known exactly how many voters are in the Republic of Croatia who are registered in that register of voters. Not only is it known, but it is up to the government or the resolution ministry on the day of the signing of a referendum to announce what is the total number of voters in the Republic of Croatia. I think that for the latest data collected in the 5th month when the signatures for a referendum on pension reform began to be collected were about 3 million and 874 thousand voters. What I would like to point out may have already been the debate itself, namely, it is said that somewhere in the Republic of Croatia there is a larger, larger list of voters than the number of inhabitants. That it is possible and it should not surprise anyone except that on that list of voters should know what voters living in the area of that unit of local self-government today and there is their place of residence and those who are enrolled, and occasionally live in that local self-government unit, are citizens of the Republic of Croatia, live somewhere abroad, and they are being singled out at some point through the register itself, and it is clear exactly how many such voters who do not live in the unit area of local self-government. Otherwise, 30 years ago, I think it was the last census in 1991 when citizens of the Republic of Croatia were enrolled in the census for a long time. And it was known in these lists of voters, in these censuses to find people who lived outside of Croatia for 20 years, I don't know in South America, North America, Australia, Germany, etc., in the overseas countries where their parents, when the censusors arrived, listed children or brothers or sisters who had gone outside Croatia for many years. According to this census, it is evident from the text of the law that it is impossible for more such things to happen already in this census to be registered by a citizen of the Republic of Croatia, a citizen of the Republic of Croatia, or who is emerging from the Republic of Croatia for less than 12 months. Therefore, in this way we will have one quite accurate and should have quite accurate records on the day of 31 March of next year, when we will be able to know with certainty how much indeed in the past 10 years the number of inhabitants in the Republic of Croatia has changed. Then we will have relevant information as indeed, indeed, the citizens of the Republic of Croatia have moved from the Republic of Croatia. This law is in line with European legislation so that these citizens who are more than 12 months old, citizens of the Republic of Croatia, living in another European country, would be listed in general, as in the countries where they live today. In this way, there would be no overlapping of the number of people in Europe who are Croatian citizens, and currently live more than a year in another European country. In this way Croatia, as well as other European countries, could be known about the exact number of inhabitants. Otherwise, according to previous censuses, that was not the case. It could have happened that the same people were listed in two different states. I believe that in this way, this methodology will be able to determine exactly what the population is. That's what I said earlier when I asked on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club for a break, that when we talk about the census, the inevitable subject that relates to the census is clear and demographic representation of the Republic of Croatia. I also said that and then that this government has done a lot when it comes to a number of demographic measures that go after the care of the entire Croatian, all of the inhabitants of the Republic of Croatia, and that there are many measures that have been taken to boost the birth rate, and in order to encourage staying, not leaving the Republic of Croatia. Here I will personally support this bill as planned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186425	Representative Boris reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186426	Thank you very much. Comrade Bačić, here I am also in favour of the law but I think it is really necessary to prepare really well that we do not have any illogical developments on the ground in the census itself. I remember 2011. We have a situation that, I don't know, my community is covering through its catastrian border and some of the settlements of some other local self-government, and then we find, we find a problem where we can happen to maybe 20, 30 people from another local self-government, who are in the village, who belong to another local self-government just because there's a little bit of a catastrian border going on and it's covering that part of the voter list in my community, and then we grow up this number of people who are formally living there, then it goes into the register of voters and it happens in the field, and then we have to correct that it shouldn't happen because there's wrong data, so here's one thing that we should really prepare in time to determine exactly where whoever belongs in the settlements so that it doesn't happen that in the small overlapping of the Catastrian borders, people are simply wrongly written.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186427	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186428	I thank my colleague, Boric, the Law on County, Cities and Municipalities in the Republic of Croatia, has clearly prescribed the boundaries of units of local self-government which says that the borders of local self-government units are in the rule of the border of cadastrian municipalities, however, if they do not agree with the boundaries of the settlements are the borders of the unit of local self-government. Such differences between the border of the settlement and the cataract municipalities in the Republic of Croatia are numerous, however, there is a clear law, so the settlement is the basic unit on which the population list is held, not the Catastrian municipality and the city list, streets, settlements, home numbers are based according to the settlement. Therefore, a local unit of local, local self-government whose settlement goes beyond the borders of its cadastrian municipalities enters the area of the second unit of local self-government. I don't know what the specific case of Rab is now, but the boundaries of the settlements are taken as defined limits for the census, based on which the limits of the lists are carried out.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186429	Representative Djujic asked for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186430	Comrade Bačić, you have this one, you have said that the list of voters may be mentioned perhaps even unjustly in the context of this law, he is mentioned because there is a whole series of illogicalities there, and here, here are colleagues speaking each one of them on their own example of why it is so. I will tell you on the example of my city that 4100 full-time residents live with us, and we have 5200 voters, now living in 100, 1100 people who are on our list of voters and are registered in the city, and they are not staying there for sure, so one part of what you said may be in your example to occasionally stay and live outside, but one large part of the people is also from Zagreb who, in order to avoid paying taxes, the houses on vacation are registered, applications in that coastal place and then are there on the list of voters and whoever lives in the coast are meeting with it. Then you mentioned that there are other registers and there are, there's a list of tax administrations, the MUP etc., but the problem is that the data in all these registers don't overlap and then we have some problems on the ground and there's room for doubt and that's not good.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186431	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186432	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Djujic, that you yourself said that it is possible that some of your fellow citizens who have applied for various reasons were enrolled in your town, but it is good that he is not then on the second unit of local self-government. If it is entered into only one of these important changes does not change the situation except that it is declared where it is living, where it is exercising certain rights, and not that it is entered where it suits it at a certain time so that it does not pay a lower income tax, for example, or any other obligation, or that it may not pay a tax on a holiday home if that house is considered a cottage, therefore these differences are, but the total number in the Republic of Croatia must be when all units of local self-government and the register of voters must be accurate according to the record kept at the MUP.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186433	Representative Bulj also reported on individual participation in the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186434	Thank you very much. The list of population in 2021 will be essentially an indigo of policies that we implement according to demographic, demographic policies and poor decisions of Croatian authorities that have affected standards and life that people from the finest state who have all the potential and resources to develop into a strong economic, tourism, economical state have essentially reduced themselves to the fact that indicators will show that the policy that was still attractive in the former Yugoslavia in the '60s is still being implemented in the sense that the trains for Germany are now not organised but that people are going to go to third countries themselves and that is proof of these 5% of GDP which, 5% of the GDP we get from the knowledge of our people who have emigrated and these policies are the cause of this demographic fall, we have a country, and the state is not only the territory, the state is and the people, and we are all witnesses are empty, this list of course of which is very important that we have been able to see in the past 70 years, and that we have been able to be able to be able to demonstrate that in terms of GDP. to increase these funds from our people who have moved out. In this law everything is stated, of course there are also positive things, but one important fact is that as colleagues have said, the voter list is quite different, it is non-compliant, the MUP, the tax, all these bodies have different lists so that these lists have also affected the problems of the election in essence of election processes, we have also had problems in the referendum initiatives where 400 000 signatures have been collected, such as the amendment of the electoral law, the People's Initiative is also being affected because of these statistical errors, i.e. Unequal lists of discrepancies as voters, places of residence and who knows what reasons and therefore are also a blow to democracy not only, I know that this is another topic in terms of voter lists and ways, however, it is a fact that structures in the law, in the country i.e. The laws we have and our public administration as it is organized, that it has affected demographic decline and so on, I have been saying for years that the counties should be abolished, that they are a tumor of society, which is admitted by Andrej Plenkovic when he said they did not get enough votes in the counties where they used to get because of what people have moved out of. So he's already the prime minister himself admitted that on the next census next year, he's going to show one bad government policy, a bad policy where we have bad structures, in our country we have surpluses, so we have these counties that are simply surpluses, and I can say on my example of the Split-Dalmatia County, since the County was founded, 100 000 people are less in Dalmatia Zagora, from Krka to Neretva, which means that we simply from this data that we're getting, we haven't read yet in 2011, 2001, we haven't read what's important and these are indicators that people are shrinking and we're coming under 4 million people, who know where it's going to go, because this isn't the end, if this policy continues to carry out the departure of our young people, the extinction of literally numerous villages, and all the cities, the municipalities. In order for the picture not to be so black, we must send a message that this is the most beautiful piece of land we have, however, is the fact that Croatia is out of these, as politicians, we must draw some facts. That it's time for those counties to be shut down. That they are unnecessary because only when I look at the school as the minister boasts that she is helping with her reform, in fact by curriculative reform, that reforms have been made, all that is not, digitisation while down in Zagora, ceilings in schools fall on students' heads, is only lucky they weren't, for example. In Sinj Brnaza, a place that has more than 4,000 inhabitants, the ceiling has fallen and where are the sponges? No sponges to wipe the board, no chalk. And you boast with demographics some measures and mostly with curricula education, pills are worn, competitions are called and down will be people, children will only be saved if they don't fall into a full-scale ceiling on their heads that hasn't been worn in 50 years, not colored. So what are we talking about? We out of this dear colleague and colleague, if we out of this and the distinguished representatives of the government, don't get out of the data and the current and these, certain measures, then we're not doing this. We'll only be able to cry over our fate as people leave us, all because of the bad and only the bad policies that don't affect the survival of these people in that area. If we're making a list just for the list, so we can manipulate, the voting lists later, if it's some initiative, we basically didn't get anything out of these lists that should be changed. If you need to shut down the county if these are the forms that are the bloodstains of the Croatian people, and the survival of the people in certain areas, when we look at Slavonia, my Dalmatian Zagora, there is no one. What are these counties for? School founders, so what did you do for a school of decentralised funds? Two months. We don't have, for a month and a half, we don't have an X-ray in Sinjo, they don't have any kids to examine if they have pneumonia. What are these decentralised funds for if we send? You know what they're for? So they can maintain their electoral body. Any HDZ... County, any SDP if he's in County. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And what we need to do, get out, so I'm saying, get out of this data that we're going to have in 2021, we can talk about this law all we want, what we want, how we want, I mean, we can talk about everything. Now you have areas that are completely empty. Here I was recently in the Straight Wheels, there was Milorad Pupovac near Biljana Donja. People of the Serb national minority, there's a waste dump, industrial costs, never been it. And the power is, there's a birth thread he's going down. And now they are fighters for equality, no, but here is the majority of SDSS, HDZ, HNS, Sach, Bandic's chips, who haven't destroyed everything in the last 5 years. And that's what Prime Minister Plenkovic admits. Prime Minister Plenkovic says on election night, we didn't get the expected number of votes in the counties where we got a lot because people moved out and I'm told that I'm a push when I say that 5% of GDP is. Economic growth, he, Maric Minister, Lights of the Parliament, Brussels, presides the EU, me 2/3 of Croatia is empty. And he admits, the prime minister of the Republic, stole a referendum from the people, incomplete voter lists. So we're absolutely brought with these lists into one delusion, now we're discussing what this law is, probably there's good things, but I'm interested in what you're doing about the measures of demographics, what we're doing other than what we do in the county, here I've even made a proposal down to Mayor Boban to lift another floor or towards the river to extend the building to have di people and what it takes to sit, they don't have di-sit how many of them he's received. And quality people go out. I even donated four chairs, maybe I should have reported a conflict of interest to the commission from where I got those four chairs. Therefore, when I speak as a representative who comes from these parts, I don't want to speak black but if we continue to act like this, unfortunately black will be written to us. We must spread the hope of the survival of the people in these areas, from Slavonia to Dubrovnik, these are beautiful landscapes. But the fact is that the behavior from these statistical indicators that we have is just getting deeper and deeper. In the interest of carelessness and in the interest of masseuses, I guess, who knows what. Because I know more who runs the country, maybe I don't need to tell you, maybe I should have told a secret cell in front of the Masonian lodges. Because we don't even know who runs this country anymore. Neither who has influence on these, whether the Parliament has any influence at all, and who knows, maybe we should all see who it is here, if there's anyone who isn't in the masseuse of some secret locks at all. So the state as a state from these statistical and government statistics must take measures, not listen to the various secret boxes that send them messages and dictate how they behave. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186435	A representative of the Sladolovs reported for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186436	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow Bull. At first, you said well that the census of the population is indigo in some way the result of the work of the policies that actually ruled our Croatia and that it will show which regions they moved the most, so it will be interesting to see in your area, for example. The town of Trilj now, as it stood ten years ago, will be interesting to see which occupations they had most evicted. Were the builders the most evicted, not those free, free builders the others, these builders moved out and that would show the population list. And what's saddest is that the least job of the censusors is going to have people in the Dalmatian Zagora and Slavonia because there are very few people left.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186437	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186438	So that literally indigo, it will be a reflection of the bad policies against the interests of the people, against the interests of those for whom the trial would be fought, because Croatia, as it was said yesterday, must be Croatia of all and tokars, and builders, and doctor of science and academics, but unfortunately it is not. It's a builder, but free of these locals as they're called. If our statistical indicators, I know, here's what you mentioned about the town of Trill, is my Sinj, the Trill you mentioned that those villages around you absolutely have no one. When I pass... very few people are left, when you go the road of Kamenska, Roga, Vostane or on my side here from... other places that are beautiful, which are close to Split there is nothing. And then when I hear from the leaders that they've gotten 100,000 kunas for the cinema, but basically demographic measures are absolutely either late or this government absolutely has no sense of these areas except to listen to free builders. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186439	A representative of Vecligaj answered the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186440	Thank you, Vice President. Well, here's colleague Bulj, you've well detected this for all of us the known fact, which is that most of the Republic of Croatia is unfortunately empty today and you've repeated what the Prime Minister himself has detected after the election that most of these parts of the HDZ government. What I think would be that at least through this census let's let him be the one to tell us I'm going to have an analytical basis for something better, and that's primarily, and you said yourself that we have too many municipalities, too many counties, so we definitely need one territorial reconstruction, and this is a very good opportunity to make it and make it a fact that we have fewer inhabitants than we have in the past, I don't have time to explain now why it happened. And this census has to be some kind of means for us, it can't be a goal in itself, a means to achieve a better and better quality public administration in which citizens will believe.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186441	Thank you. Time's up. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186442	I would agree with you completely. In fact, the prime minister said he did not get enough votes in the districts where they expected, the number of votes in municipalities and local self-government because people had moved out. So it's a confession that all these statistical indicators that we get from either the list of voters or the census or any census are not adequately used and we don't give specific solutions. I've said you're talking about your example of your area, you know very well, but Split-Dalmatia County I know what it is, here I'm talking about Zagora it's a large area of 36 local self-government from Krka to Neretva beautiful area, close to the coast, has all the conditions for good life and development from tourism, but agriculture is empty. Why? Because the fictional formations now and the county in this form destroy the survival of people in this area is all the decentralised money that should go to school, health care essentially remains for them for their arrests.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186443	Thank you. Time's up. Representative Pernar has come forward with the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186444	Dear Representative Bulj. When I was in this assembly, I was saying that the Croatian Masany, that the Masons are in the highest positions, then everyone was mocking me, many and in this assembly, the media especially. When I asked Prime Minister Plenkovic how many Masons there are in the government, they also scolded the media, however, time shows that unfortunately the masseary in Croatia is powerful, that it is influential, that there are many members and that there are among the highest state officials. It calls on the Croatian people to open their eyes, to see and to stop believing in the media and to oppose the masseary or to support those politicians who have dared to raise their voice against this occult and infamous organisation in the elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186445	Replication response. I believe Representative Bulj will point that towards the subject of today's law.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186446	Yeah. Mr. Pernar I would also tell you what you have answered to me that basically all statistical indicators that are in the Republic of Croatia are not used by the people but in the interest of the builders of the free obvious and I have never dealt with topics, I have never dealt with the Masons, these secret organizations,... today I thought I would talk about the survival of the people in these areas that we have better statistical indicators. But the fact that the time has come to finally say everyone had anyone that isn't mass or in some other secret organization, means it's time that people who are on important officials, state attorney, prime minister, ministers, secretaries, we Assembly representatives are working for those free builders' organisations and these secrets... organizations or we will fight for the interest of our people. So who runs the Croatian Secretary? Are you in some secret organization? Here's the secretary who doesn't listen to some secret organization of mystics, but no one knows who's running this Republic, unfortunately. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186447	Representative Bulj, please follow the traffic light. Your time is up. Representative Sagar has come forward for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186448	Thank you, Vice President HS. Dear counterpart Bulj, therefore, we have before us representatives of the State Statistics Office, have an extremely important job in the Republic of Croatia. This also shows the case of the lawsuits which are now filed by the Civil Service Union under the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the pilot of the lawsuits received before the court. It is 1.8 billion kuna that will need to be paid, which will greatly burden the state budget. If you remember, it was 2015 when the DZS announced that GDP did not grow 2% but 1.9998%, and these are serious things. The census is also a serious thing, but I can't not mention it in one context. Today, to get a document from the state administration, in 92% of the cases you have to physically leave. Look, only less than 10% you can do digitally, and that's the main grudge, and in this law, he's not ambitious, he's not in line with the 21st century. People should be able to register their own data, I guess that's better done by citizens than political officials in property cards.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186449	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186450	I agree that if the statistical indicator, any work, and especially this way when these censuses are serious, that it can't only be, we'll do it, but it's our obligation, our international obligation under these contracts, those contracts to which the proposer is called but from that data we need to see what we do and how it works. If we have to do 95% or something less you said, go physically, today when everything is digitized, when we have the Internet, when we have the possibility, that 95% of cases have to go directly to the door and knock and create crowds, then it says that we all, we don't use these statistical indicators in terms of development or who cares, but just pro form. Obviously just pro form for some kind of obligation, here we are, we've passed the law, we've made a list of voters, and that's that. However, your list of voters is an image of the indigo policies we have implemented so far, and this one will unfortunately be defeated for Croatian People. [[Intruder Petrov: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186451	Thank you. For individual participation in the debate, also reported, MP Culej. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186452	Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. At the very beginning, I will look back at one debate, remain in the topic, of course, which Milorad Pupovac, representative of the national Serb minority, brought out here. He suggested that the very important information of citizens and representation of national minorities is among the censuses. Why the information of citizens? So I see the only information is that the representatives of his minority are not sufficiently informed because they are not in Croatia but are located in Serbia and elsewhere and it will be very difficult to inform them at all, and representation of the national minorities is very important to him because of what I am about to read now, and he says: the census in Vukovar is a fake. 34.87% of Serbs live there. The results were probably set up. After acknowledging one of the controllers that the 2011 census results were set, as all media broadcasts today, the question arises whether the same thing happened in Vukovar? The census results showed that 34.87% of Serbs live there and therefore demand bilingualism throughout the city, which they half succeeded in failing to defend Vukovar, so that they could be distracted by it. Why is that very important to Milorad Pupovci? Exactly because they would continue to dominate in Vukovar, a city where they are not the majority and where they would not have rights unless they had this number of inhabitants. The morning paper published a text stating that the census was faked. Vojarna in Jastrebarska, where data from last year's census was processed, last year was the largest counterfeiting office in Croatia and, if necessary, under full identity will testify in the DORH, and I don't think anyone invited him to testify on this issue, since we know who is sitting in the DORH, i.e. They won't sit if there's any God and justice. We literally made up Croatia there. In the lists, they wrote fictional data, witnessed incredible nonsense that the censusors had written, which we couldn't even correct. The data of this list, which should be used for planning and adopting key strategies, are void. One of the 396 people who worked in the Jastrebarska military from the end of May to December of this year to process data from the 2011 census would find it interesting in this context to see how the lists of people in Vukovar were processed, according to which the results are reportedly 34.87%. According to SDSS President Srdjan Milakovic, which is the one on the right, slightly more to the right than there is in the party, the fact that Serbs in Vukovar, according to the census, account for more than one third of the city's population. It implies the equal use of Croatian, Serbian and Latin and Cyrillic letters in the city of Vukovar. And Milakovic, imagine, said he expects to change the statutes of the city of Vukovar, etc., etc. Not only would they change the statutes of the city where they do not meet the conditions for Cyrillic letters, but for many other things. What's this about? Those who listed the population in 2011, and we know for sure about Vukovar, Mirkovce and this other Serb-populated Serb Croatian town. These censuses were by national minority from these minority communities and were therefore censusing their population. And logically, they fixed the number, the number of these residents in the home team. The census is totally irregular. I personally know that at some locations there are 30 and 40 family members registered at a certain home number. How are the censuses conducted? So just, I'll give you an example. So in Bor's village, there's a guy named Jovo, Rade, I don't know what his name is, and he's a censusist. He brought questionnaires and came to his cousin's house, and with him in the house was 40 at the same address. Who are your 40s? Who knows who, who knows where? They're not from here. They're headed to that address, receiving various benefits not only can they vote here for whom they want when they come to Lastin's buses, but they have certain receipts here. I know for a fact that one police chief of Vukovar-Srijemska Blaž Topalovic was removed for one reason only. Not from the time that our minister here at the time, Minister Ranko Ostojić fired him on the grounds that he was doing something wicked, no, the main reason was that the police chief fired and suspended five officers who worked at the Vukovar-Srijem Police Department, daily leaving work in Tovarnik, leaving uniforms and leaving guns and crossing the border. And so every day from shift to shift they spard across the border. That's probably why the chief was removed, not because of something else. Insubordination to some minister that didn't fit. And so did this list. Why doesn't the census match? It doesn't suit him because many will have to display in the right true way where they actually live, where they belong. They don't even live here, there's no house on these addresses. Maybe they were destroyed during the war, they're not here, and that's where they're being led. And I'll read this to you. According to the Regulation, any information relating to an individual whose identity has been identified or can be determined is personal data. These are the name, address, email address, phone number, photo, video footage of individuals, OIB and.../incomprehensible/ address, gps location, biometric data, fingerprint, photo, genetic data, data on education, professional storage, data on salary, salary, credit debt data, bank accounts data etc., etc., all those who here are fictitiously led that in Croatia they do not have this. All of this can be determined that they do not have in Croatia their own jury account, nor ordinary account, none, they do not have root or data here. This is what bothers my colleague Pupovac and therefore he insists on, in the representation of national minorities in the elections. And he'd still be attached to it, but all that I did didn't stop Arsen Bauk from embarrassingly introducing a Cyrillic to Vukovar in the early mornings under the cover of darkness and under the bat of Ranko Ostojić and others.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186453	Representative Misic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186454	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Culey, there's no problem with the population list. Legally, we need to write it down, we're a European country, but the problem is that you said giro accounts, where all people live, in the last 30 years what you've been trying to do, what has been done, knowing here you also mentioned Vukovar, 42,000 in Vukovar was before the war. 13,000 Serbs who managed the city until the war and then of course were not satisfied because the democratic state came where the rules were otherwise determined not from Belgrade and then there was a rebellion. That's the problem. Why doesn't someone mention, we don't take their land or kidnap it, we pass the laws, why doesn't someone say that in Bosnia's Posavina in Banja Luka, Croatia's land is being kidnapped, laws are being passed where the country will be usurped, people who are the same And it opens up a lot of questions. [[Employment: Thank you timed out, MP Misic timed out.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186455	Replication response, Agent Culey.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186456	My colleague Misic has one Thomson song that goes the way Bulj also mentions a little "antichrists and Masons, the communists these," it's the problem in Croatia where they manage our country, create laws, bring, do whatever they want, it's the biggest problem. If the Croatian defenders were the ones who were going to make a census in Vukovar, I don't think this kind of ratio would ever have been shown because they would probably know who they're listing and why they're listing. There are Croatian defenders in pensions they will do it for free, they will only do it for their own Croatia, and all those who are paid will know how, as well as these in 2011.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186457	Representative Bulj has come forward for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186458	A fellow National Minority Culej in Croatia is rich and many of them have made a major contribution to the Homeland War, including in the area of Vukovar by Mr. Misic Predrag and many other people who are Serbian national minorities. However, the fact is that you initially mentioned your coalition partner Mr. Pupovac and everything he does badly, but the fact is that all this bad about demographic policy and everything that's happening has brought this coalition in which it means your coalition Milorad Pupovac, which you call out. So, let's at least be nice to each other and then, I made a suggestion, colleague Culey, that it's called Peace Day and Dr. Ivana Schreter and then HDZ and SDSS took down Dr. Ivan Schreter, you could've said it wasn't right. So let's not be hypocritical, this coalition with chips, HDZ, SDSS, Pupovci and HNS have brought the state to the bottom. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186459	Thank you. Representative Bulj, please stick to your main time. Replication response, Agent Culey.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186460	My colleague Bulj, how can I answer you whether here or outside in the hallway, we usually talk more outside than here, but I'll tell you a story, let everyone hear it, there's a river that comes across some rock or stone in its flow, so maybe that stone that's in that river slows down that river a little bit so it doesn't give that word to bite off the coast whether it's left or right or not and I don't want to talk about Dr. Bulj. I've been making an exhibition about him, bringing in, filing criminal charges against my colleagues, ending up at the DORH for that, so that's not exactly what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186461	Representative Stazic reported for individual participation in the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186462	Thank you, Vice President. First of all, the question is, why is this law going by emergency procedure? There's an explanation in it. It explains that the list is a comprehensive and complex statistical survey requiring detailed preparation prior to implementation on the ground. And now it took the government 3.5 years to realize that this extensive and complex research didn't, just when she realized it, six months ago. Before the term of office, she sends the law to emergency procedures. And this law is important, and as far as we've heard in the debate that was long, there's a lot of objections. So how will a quality law be passed if it will only rely on amendments if they come out of opposition, then they will be rejected instead of hearing the debate in the first reading and preparing a thorough new law? The census will only be in 2021. So we have time to pass that law, to do another reading in three months, say in nine months, nothing terrible will happen. And this is completely unwise of what it's like to send a law like this into emergency procedures. Here are a few questions the law doesn't answer. For example. Art. The 10th says on the issue of national and religious membership, people can freely plead. Okay, we understand that I can plead, but how are those in the list going to be recorded? I know, there are people who will plead to the nationality that they are Eskimos because they do not have any relationship with their nationality, they do not hold on to it, now, will they be written down as others or will their expression be respected? There will be those who will plead as Yugoslavs, there will be others, will they go under others? Will it therefore be respected, what the law says, or does it then change in the processing of statistics? Art. 14, so the most important article of this law. Now there's one more thing about an emergency procedure to say. We heard the objections of members of the national minorities, they were reasonable, they were reasonable. They've had such an attack, a fellow Pupovac, such a primitive nationalist attack that it's amazing how offended a man is, because of reasonable objections to the terms of this law. Bauk said on behalf of the SDP club that we will vote on this law depending on how the government will treat the amendments of the national minority club and it will be exactly because we want, because it is SDP's policy, to respect national minorities rather than to be insulted by their elected representatives in the Assembly. Let's get on with it. 14, actually the most important part, is the content of this law, which data will be collected. And there's different data, some logical, some a little less logical than that. Number of live births. Now look, you've got a couple who have underage children and they split up and live in two cities. One parent will say she has two live births, another parent will say she has two live births and you will make four in the data of two. And what do you need that information for anyway? So you have Mothers born, so let's once the government unites, combines that data. Well, in the Mothers' Mothers' Mothers' Mothers, everyone's registered with every live birth child. And now why do you need this information that can also lead to incorrect results? You say mother tongue, you'll be listed mother tongue, that's fine, but why not foreign language? So that we know how many people in Croatia speak foreign languages and how many languages and what languages. Well, that would be an interesting statistical data. So look, these data are collected for statistical purposes, not to let us know if Bulj knows or doesn't speak English, but to know how many people speak English at all. Then we don't have a list of voters and they don't match up with the number of citizens. So put it into this, let's enter, do you have a marriage right and have you consumed it in the last election, for example. So let's see at least that indicative data, instead of the number of live births you really don't need. So why don't we examine the belongings of some political organization? And you could now, in light of these events today and yesterday, write if you're a masseuse that we know how many Masons we have in the country, given that the data is classified. The data are secrets they won't come out for anyone who I don't admit to being a masseuse, so let's see if Pernar's right or wrong. You're saying, it says here that the main sources of the means of life will be listed, which is fine, and why not the amount of income so that we know how many millionaires we have, how many of those who have 100 grand? I'm a little confused about this because in law, you predicted electronic data collection means online, but how are you going to do it when we live in a country where 14 ministers don't know how to fill out a property card, so how are they going to fill out this property search form of yours because you're listing property because they don't remember having five houses? Why don't you sign up for personal cars to get people to come out, get them to drive on gas, get them on diesel, get them on gas, get them on electricity so we can have some useful data when we're already collecting them? Why don't you list computers, if you have a computer, if you're using a computer, if you have a cell phone, if you're using a cell phone, so that we know about after that list when we analyze the data that we know some state of the nation, some important data, a lot of importance. Look, you're saying that you're going to list animals and feathers, it's very important to us how many poultry we have, and how many cell phones we're interested in, or how many computers. But if one of the chickens hadn't been listed by accident, it shouldn't have happened. So this is one as you see it is quite stupid and irresponsible that this law is passed in one reading because the comments on it are numerous and serious. And pull that emergency procedure, say this is the first law reading and fix what's illogical. We will find out after this list, at least I hope how many people in Croatia are smaller, how many have gone to other countries, that's the result of the government's work, but what we can do is we're such a small, messy country where neither the refugees will stay but go outside, let alone its inhabitants and they all run away. I don't know who'll be the last to turn off the light. Okay, of course we need to find out the number of Serbs in Vukovar and elsewhere. Here's a colleague, Culey, who suggests that they do a list of defense attorneys, I don't know if that would include the defender who said in Samobor that in the Homeland War, we beat the II winners. World War II winners. World War I, anti-fascists. She means herself and her organization to be classified as a fascist group, and now she's just so confident that they're listing our population, it wouldn't be wise.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186463	Thank you. We have replicas, dear colleague Tomislav Jagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186464	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow Stazic. Here's another one of your discussions, and it's about the very technique of the census and the reasoning that stands in the law itself. Therefore, it states that for the implementation of this list, expenditure on the purchase of long-term assets produced, the purchase of 8000 electronic devices, the manufacture of an electronic questionnaire, so applications for that self-type and for these electronic devices to be obtained. Look, what bothers me as a citizen and as a man and as a parliamentary representative and a lot of contact with young people, we have a lot of educated people, so what kind of device we have 1.5 cell phones per capita, I think 2.5 per household. There are smart people who can make apps, which is why now you have great costs if it can be done in another way and to be controlled and to be in line with what the European Commission is asking us to do.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186465	Thank you. The answer of fellow Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186466	That's all right. Of course there are apps and of course there could only be one application, and not now buying I don't know how many computers there are. But it's just telling you that this unprepared document, unprepared, it's messy, it's messy, it's unsuitable to go to a vote at all and even with amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186467	Thank you. Next replica, dear colleague Davor Lonchar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186468	Thank you, Vice President. I didn't realize at any point that he was saying anything against anti-fascists, that he insulted anyone at all, but I often hear you in this Croatian assembly that you often and deliberately call people and sow hatred among all the residents who live and... and it's really not correct of you. You really should stop because you must be one of those people who doesn't love this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186469	Thank you. The answer of fellow Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186470	I don't know if you've been listening to me or maybe you haven't been able to understand me. I quoted literally the president of one of the 100,000 defense associations, who said in the Homeland War, we beat the winners of II. World War I. And if she had any sense, then all these associations would have been fenced from that statement, they would have fenced from that statement. I didn't hear you either.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186471	Thank you. Final word on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, esteemed colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186472	Thank you very much. Secretary, you have heard from my colleagues and my club and all parliamentary representatives of various remarks, commendations and what should be changed and what these statistical indicators should be used for. that, in fact, a list of 2021 will be essentially a census, i.e. an indigo. It is an indigo of all this bad that is happening in the Republic of Croatia, which is a demographic decline that has already been significant and rapy as it goes since '91, but then we can understand, it was the state of war of Croatia and the great Serbian aggression, a third was just occupied, many people have gone away and these were the consequences. Unfortunately, however, they are now even worse than in the Homeland War, meaning these consequences, so that these statistical indicators, so far, have not served us, colleagues and colleagues, and the Government should be able to see which direction of policy is changing. Whether or not to change public administration. If we see how many people have moved to Dalmatinska Zagora or Slavonia, if it has moved out, and in Dalmatia, from Krka to Neretva 100 thousand people, then we see that these counties have no purpose. It's that they're one cell, now, whether they're free builders in the county and whether they're Masons, are, or, I don't know, but I know that weakly yes, is catastrophic and the county are, have effects on most of the Republic. So it's obvious from this that the county should be abolished. So let's get rid of the county because it doesn't make sense. If my Dalmatian Zagora is empty, it was either Trill or my Sinj, that's a first. So if we're just making lists for a list and if we could, not related, voter lists can be regulated according to civic initiatives to steal a referendum People decide or something like that, then it's catastrophic. Then it's a disaster if from this we, from those indicators that will come out we don't do anything. In the end, I would say that the statistical indicators already speak in 2018, which came out to mean, excuse me, in, so 5% of GDP, i.e. 6% of GDP out of the line, I'm going to repeat that, I've been repeating it, from our evicted people. Which means it's 18 billion kuna, and compared to the previous year, it increases 70% of the funds that people send to Croatia. So we have bad policies, a coalition currently in power, the government of Andrej Plenkovic in the HDZ-HNS-SDSS coalition, everyone inside, Bandic and his, means the fact that these people, that this government that means in the coalition, absolutely this coalition does not work in the interest of the Croatian people. In fact, you don't even know anymore, we don't have a builder anymore except for the Free builders. We don't have them anymore, Your Honor. We absolutely, I don't know any Free builder, you drove one, you were a driver and it was a professional job, but it's a maester, he's a maester. So, the roof. But that's not the problem. A man works in private, no problem. But the problem is when your builders take over all the institutions you free, I would like us to have builders who will advance, not builders who will take over their interest groups, the Masons, who will take our institutions like DORH. And that's who I would suggest, because it's no longer known whether these masses of this mystery, the mystic lodge, are they running the Croatian state, the esteemed secretary, I don't know, are you a member too? Are you a member of some kind of secret organization? I don't know, I mean, I don't know who I'm talking to anymore. Now with caution, it's mystical. So we have a problem, instead of developing, having builders and builders, we push Free builders into key institutions. To the key institutions, on the proposal of Prime Minister Plenkovic and these governments of yours, in which you, the distinguished secretary, are in. And who's running the country? I'd prefer to keep to the mason, tokar, locksmith, I have nothing against these successful citizens in politics, I don't know, in entrepreneurship, in finance, but these are secret associations of some mystic who run our system. So, and that meaning that was said earlier, that story that was told earlier to list these people, to ask, however, we as officials should ask that all those in secret organizations sign that they are not in these secret organizations, but minimally because this doubt has arisen, we see that today this serious topic has shifted to debate on these secret organizations. That we should all sign materially and legally that we're not in these secret organizations because I don't know who the Mason is anymore, who he is, who he isn't. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186473	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bull. I'm closing the debate. I would like to thank Mr Zrinasic and his associates, State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186474	Final proposal of the Law on Census, Households and Apartments in the Republic of Croatia in 2021, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 834, the applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee, the National Representatives' Club... My colleagues and colleagues, colleague Anka Mrak Taritash, I beg you, or be here and do not laugh so loudly or leave the hall, I really beg you, this is not fair to all of us and especially to me. During the debate, the proposer's representative accepted the amendment of the committee, and I ask the proposing's representative to show himself about the other amendments submitted, with us is Zdravko Zrinasic, the Honorable State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186475	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186476	Amendment 1 to the National Minority Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186477	Amendment 1 to art. 14. unacceptable. Namely for the 2021 census, the so-called an open type of question and anyone can freely declare their mother tongue. The introduction of two modes as proposed here for mother tongue in data processing results can lead to unreliable and unclear responses which will give the wrong picture of the appearance forms first due to multiple possibilities of different combinations and other consequential, non-comparability of data compared to previous census data.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186478	Comrade Bilek, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186479	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. We, when we proposed this amendment, were in practice in some European countries that do not have a problem and precisely because of the accuracy of the data and primarily the expression of those citizens who live in the bilingual environments and are growing up from birth, so we asked for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186480	Okay, so we're going to vote now on an amendment that the government doesn't accept. I find that the amendment has not received the required number of votes. Now we're going to the second amendment of the same club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186481	Amendment to Art. 22 is not accepted. In each census, the DZS shall draw up organisational instructions for the implementation of the list, as provided for in this new law, and in this Article. 19th indent 4. In this respect, the organisational instructions will also specify for the upcoming census the conditions under which persons can apply for censuses and, in the case of criteria for their selection, a clear emphasis will also be placed on the emphasis of the County Listing Commissions as a commission responsible for the selection of censuses in the areas of populated national minorities, necessarily taking into account the representation of censusors from the order of the national minority.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186482	Here you go, Comrade Bilek.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186483	Here's an esteemed fellow, right here we've had a few, and that's a lot of problems with past lists of voters and for the sake of declaring...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186484	My colleagues and colleagues, I really beg you, this is not really correct, you are standing by, you are speaking very loudly, my colleague Bilek is not at all heard, please take your seats or be on the sidelines and follow but without comment or leave the assembly. Here you go, Comrade Bilek.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186485	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We have a number of issues about the census especially when it comes to settlements where the majority of the population are members of national minorities and related to the language and letter of national minorities, we can give a few examples and from Roma settlements where it is simply not easy to list people, on this side we have proposed this amendment in order to improve the census, improve its quality and ability to list all residents and express our residents on the next list in 2021, on this side we do not accept the explanation and ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186486	Let's also vote on a second amendment that the government does not accept. I find that the amendment has not received the required number of votes, colleague Bilek, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186487	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, on behalf of the National Minority Representatives Club, I request a 10-minute break to agree within the club on how to vote this law since both of our amendments have been rejected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186488	Thank you, colleague Bačić, here you are, the club of representatives of HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186489	Thank you, Mr. President. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, I'm also looking for a 10-minute break to consult us at the club on this legal matter. Namely, what I want to say about this law is that this is the fourth list, we have a fourth census in the Republic of Croatia. On the subject about which amendments were submitted, I must say, I myself carried out censuses and in '91. And in 2001, they were the same rules, and in '91. and in 2001 and 2011, therefore, we are in line with this law with a European directive that prescribes the implementation of the EU-wide census and allows citizens of the Republic of Croatia who are in the e-Citizen system to do their job and list their families and members of households in the first part of the census. As regards the specific amendment, the second amendment, which says that censusers in areas where they are mostly living and concentrated are members of national minorities, censuses come from the order of national minorities and are acceptable. And as the Secretary of State said, this will be discussed as before, the DZS with its instructions and instructions provided for by Article. 24. It seems to me this law, to determine what and what are the criteria for someone to be a census writer, and when it comes to professional preparation and information training because this time, automatic data processing is carried out by the census. Among other things, as stated by the State Secretary, account will be taken and mandatory, it will be an obligation for the County Listing Commissions to meet the requirements for all other censuses coming from the majority people in a concentrated area of national minority censuses, and the same criteria and conditions will also have to be met by members of national minorities, therefore I'm looking for Mr. President's break. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186490	Thank you. There's a colleague named Zekanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186491	I'm also looking for a 10-minute break from the Croatian Sovereigns Club. Here, it will be very interesting to see how this Croatian Serbian trade coalition will solve this problem. Will he please Mr. Milorad Pupovac and his team that, uh, minorities are listing themselves. Perhaps it would be best to actually list in Serbia, so that Mr. Milorad Pupovac has no transport costs, transportation of people to the list in the Republic, otherwise there is a very big danger here, which you will all see, which is that, of course thanks to this law, thanks to this Croatian Serb trade coalition tomorrow in Vukovar may be a little more Serbs than there really are. Now, and then this story about Vukovar as a place, the place of a special pie actually falls into the water, and you know it very well. And yet here he would ask a question of the same interest, why is there no law to vote today? Maybe that's why Milorad Pupovac and his companion conditioned something to HDZ, so he's gone, but here's how you're going to solve this problem. Now will you finally see where you are, whose hands you are in, and here you are, the gentleman in front of me, means Milorad Popovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186492	My colleague Zekanovic, you have caused several injuries to the Rules of Procedure, so I ask you first not to call the club a social representative, I think it is incorrect, the structures you have spoken to me are also unacceptable, I disagree with them. But I don't give any warning, you all know it very well, each of you says it's best, the citizens will evaluate what it is and what it is. But I do call upon MPs and MPs not to be incorrect and offensive to their colleagues when making their views known. Let's go, there are, there are several injuries to the Rules of Procedure, if I'm not mistaken, the first colleague is Peja Grbin, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186493	Thank you, Mr. President. He's been injured. 238 but also art. The 240th century 4th century. Rules of Procedure on the work of the Croatian Parliament. You indicated that Mr. Zekanovic was incorrect in his statement to other parliamentary deputies. It's for me in this case, so I'm going to say nothing. In his move, Mr Zekanovic was incorrect again and even insulting members of the national minorities in the Republic of Croatia. In Mr Zekanovic, this has become common behavior, and I ask you to respond to such disqualifications by other peoples. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186494	Thank you. Comrade Maras, you answered the same thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186495	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will not repeat these arguments that my colleague Grbin said but I cannot agree with your argument that you will let him speak here whatever he wants, that he insults members of other nationalities, so it's simply wrong and you should react and you should take away the word. And it's not funny, Mr. President, it's become here I would say dangerous in some way to express myself in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186496	Yes, my colleague Maras is not laughing at what you are saying but laughing at the inconsistency of certain colleagues and colleagues who very often insult other colleagues and colleagues are being insulted not only on a national basis but also on a secular basis. I think it's the responsibility of each and every one of you. We've had recently, again I'll remember this Constitutional Court decision, it's very difficult sometimes to balance what freedom of speech is, and what it is to protect the dignity of another person, the other minority, the other people, the other world-wide group. So, I don't agree with what my colleague Zekanovic was saying, but if I'm going to give him a warning now, then it's probably gonna be ten times as many as there is so far, so I'm asking you all together to be correct with each other and in the assessments that we make sure that Croatia is a plural society, a multiethnic society, and that here live people who are different on different grounds. So in that part of it, I agree with you who felt affected here, but you also understand my position that very often I do not respond to certain speeches because I am trying to seek balance between this freedom of speech and to protect the dignity of another man who stems from perhaps disrespect or abuse of freedom of speech. Here's my colleague, Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186497	Thank you, Mr. President. I join the argument given by my colleague Maras and colleague Grbin, and I have a certain understanding of your point of view as well. However, I think that the provisions of the Rules of Procedure concerning disqualification and other peoples and certain groups should be applied because this is a reminder by taking away words and I think it should begin in that case. If that should start on the census, let's start with the census and at least count how many of us there are.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186498	Thank you. My colleague Milosevic, then you called.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186499	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. I express the violation of Rules of Procedure by my colleague Zekanovic rudely insulted and disrespected my colleague Pupovac, the entire National Minority Representatives' Club and the entire Serbian National Minority, and the truth is not his first time. And if we miss today, he'll keep doing it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186500	Here you go, pal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186501	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Croatian Serb MP Zekanovic, I will repeat Croatia's Serbian Serb Zekanovic has shown why the National Minority Representatives' Club believes these two amendments should have been accepted, and because of the words sent by the SDSS Club, it does not consider that there are any assumptions that they can continue working in the Assembly. Replaying the stigmatization of this club and its representatives Obstruction of work will end with us leaving the Parliament. [[Intruder President: I thank my colleague Pupovac.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186502	I'd like to thank my colleague Pupovci. Just a little colleague Zekonović. So it's not easy to take the right move at this point, but not only because of this presentation by my colleague Zekanovic, whom I find unacceptable, but because of the overall way you treat each other and because of very often offensive statements that you refer not only to individuals but also to groups and political opponents, but also to national minorities, and it's not easy to find the right criteria to meet all. It's not simple. Comrade Maras, you are one of those who certainly contributes to the overall atmosphere that spreads intolerance and one speech that is always on the verge of insult. So, I'm going to interrupt the session for 15 minutes, you're going to get the right speech, and I'm going to invite you all together once more to think about what you're saying and what you're doing, and how it's ultimately being reflected on the overall life, the culture of conversations that exists in Croatian society. We now have several more injuries to the Rules of Procedure, a colleague of Zekanovic's filed hiss, and a colleague of Maras. Here you go. :
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186503	So, if it bothered anyone that I called this coalition to the Croatian-Serbian trade coalition, I still mean it and I don't mean to apologize for it because it's the coalition, but I'll only say from this place that this is fantastic how nicely complemented by the president of the parliament who is from HDZ with colleagues from the SDP, who obviously both of whom are bothered that I called it the one I called the Croatian-Serbian or Serbian-Croatian trade coalition.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186504	Comrade Maras, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186505	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I must protest here against your relativating and insulting me personally. So my style, the way I work to compare and equate with hating and spreading intolerance to other peoples, nationalities, to groups of people living in our society, as we see every Friday here from Mr. Glasnović or Mr. Zekonovic, for example, is embarrassing. So you've personally offended me, led the sessions, followed the Constitution, and the laws, that's what we're asking you to do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186506	Thank you. You asked for a break, or so? Stanku? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186507	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Mosta Club, I request a recess on the proposed vote on the Census Act. This law shows this vote essentially shows that this coalition that has done damage, and indigo will be a census where you will see what you have done with this trade coalition that you are now trying to transfer to quite third parties. You have done so much damage in the Republic of Croatia that you will see that two thirds of Croatia are empty, that you have evicted our young people. And in this case, the misunderstanding in the coalition in the trade coalition, which was created quite unnaturally, is not what the people chose but the exclusively commercial coalition that existed in the way it existed in the way of trade, self-will. In Parliament, I haven't seen you in half these four years except when you vote. Therefore, this coalition currently absolutely does not exist, only in trade relations. The HDZ-HNS-A-SDSS and Bandic coalition and others destroyed the Croatian population. You've ruined the outside that we have so many people that your policies have led to 6% of the GDP being from our people you've evicted from the outside. Well, how many vermin did you do that he didn't do it, so there was no worse in the Homeland War at a very difficult time. And now you're pulling yourself through some replicas, warnings, this, this, what, not gentlemen, you're the culprits of a state that will appear, you're the guilty, because this is an unnatural Parliament. You were not chosen by the people to be in these coalitions and in these shops. .../Speakers speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186508	My friend Bulj is out of time. I'm taking a break until 1:00. MEETING IN 12.40 HOURS
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186509	[[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 13:07 AM]] It's 13, 10 o'clock.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186510	[[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 13:15 A.M.]] Thank you. We'll continue our free speech in five minutes. It's 1:00. 20 o'clock. We are now going to the Final Proposal of the Law on Census, Households and Apartments in the Republic of Croatia in 2021, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. Number 834. We have a few requests for a break, Zekanovic's first colleague. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186512	Dear President of the Assembly, dear colleagues and colleagues, firstly I call on the opposition not to participate in this game, let us all see if Andrej Plenkovic has any...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186513	Comrade Zekanovic, what do you want?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186514	...so I want a break on the subject of this law that Croatian sovereigns are further consulting on this law, it is clear that I am asking for it. So, what I am not clearly calling on my colleagues and colleagues to consult in their clubs, or to see if this trade coalition Croatian-Serbian coalition will survive after today. Let's see how the minorities will actually do this job and if there's been a trade deal between Mr. Plenkovic and colleagues of Pupovac and other minorities. So I have called this coalition many times, and I will always call it the Croatian-Serbian trade coalition because it is. But still, everyone knows who's in this coalition. In this coalition there is also HNS, in this coalition is Mrs Opačić, in this coalition there is also Mr Saucha, so it is only an interesting coalition...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186515	Just a little colleague Zekanovic, colleague Stazic Please, colleagues and colleagues, I ask you to allow a representative with whom you disagree to speak in a given time of two minutes. [[Intruder: Stop my time, please.]] Go on, colleague Zekanovic, I'll give you some warning if you're going to get in. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186516	Thank you, Mr. President, for stopping at my defense from fellow Stazic. So, how sensitive this topic is and how much truth is touching some of the best you can see about me and my family, my family house, on this very reason you liked it, Mrs. Pusic and Mr. Stazic, or doesn't mean there was an attack. So, an outrageous attack, but I haven't heard from anyone in this assembly since any colleague and colleague unfortunately stepped in the defense of his fellow MP, so I haven't heard, for those who said it, here I am, sorry in advance. So soon there will be a moment of truth, soon we will see whether the Government of Andrej Plenkovic has a majority or whether Mr Milorad Pupovac will support this law with his companion through the vote against or through the vote for. And I urge you not to support them, not to support this game.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186517	I will grant my colleague Zekanovic a break with only one correction that I have personally condemned the attack on your house as speaker of the assembly. You probably knew that, saw it, but I don't know why you keep it quiet. Here's a colleague of Petrov's.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186518	Your Honor, I am requesting a recess for the consultation of the MOST Club regarding this law that you have put to the vote. I must point out that this census will show the huge consequences of poor government policies in recent years, there will be a huge population eviction, and yet certain politicians are now using it to collect their political points, and yet we can witness a walk across Mark's square from parliament to government and back. And now certain politicians are looking for because of these points on the census of this bill certain rights for those minorities in Croatia who, by the way, do not have them in their home countries. And not only do they seek amendments, they announce agreed sublaws that you will allow them. They're looking for a few things, they're asking that there's a clear list of certain areas where minorities live to be there and these, the censusors of these nationalities, are looking for more than one native language. You know what I'll tell you, I see hypocrisy and Phariseeism, 3.2. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia passed a law in which there are no such rights, there are no such rights, and.../incomprehensible/... then you should follow the principle of proportionality. And colleague Pupovac, colleague Radin, if you don't trust the government whose partners you are then please send your population list nicely, deliver your census, so that they can install it. And what I'm about to tell you, fellow Pupovac, if you cared about your Serb minority in the Republic of Croatia, then you'd be a colleague of Pupovac...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186519	.../ Intruder president: colleagues and colleagues./...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186520	... lobbyed for Croatian rights in...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186521	.../ Intruder president: colleagues and colleagues./...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186522	...in Serbia that other minorities enjoy rights there. ....
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186523	.../ Insect president, colleague Petrov. Time's up.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186524	...that you seek for your Serb minority in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186525	Comrade Petrov, your time is up. Comrade Petrov, you are being warned because you are completely ignoring me. Just a little please, colleagues and colleagues. We have several injuries to the Rules of Procedure, we have a few more requests for a break. Please, no matter the difference you allow other colleagues to speak. What you're doing is not correct. Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186526	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, a colleague of Radin has violated the Rules of Procedure from the bench by insulting anyone without the approval of Bozo Petrova because he is aware, has injured the Rules of Procedure. 238, Art. 238 because he insulted, only 238 you insulted without, nonstop without the president's approval, without giving a word, therefore, you are...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186527	.../ Intruder president: colleague Bulj./...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186528	...a hypocritical man who serves...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186529	.../ Incursion president: colleague Bulj, time has come to an end./...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186530	... subjectivelyinsulting as this entire coalition...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186531	.../ Intruder president: colleague Bulj./...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186532	... it works the way you brought... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186533	Comrade Bull, you are being warned, please sit down. Please sit down. Here's your buddy, Grmo.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186534	Your Honor, I ask you to protect the integrity of this House. So, fellow Pusic, I have never reacted from the bench to any of your statements in HS in the inappropriate way that you do. You gave it exactly and I heard you on your ear for an insult, you said, when my colleague Bulj warned that my colleague Radin had spoken without permission, no one in this House could.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186535	.../ The incursion of the president: Mr. Grmo, the time has elapsed./...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186536	...without authorization to speak...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186537	.../ Incursion President: A fellow Grmoy has run out of time, please./...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186538	No, it's absurd your behavior.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186539	Comrade Thunderbolt, time's up. ... My colleague Pusic. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Comrade Pusic, just a little while, colleague Pusic, you get a warning. And please stop throwing each other away. Sit down, Mr. Grmoy, we've heard. I'm asking you to, colleagues and colleagues to stop throwing out of the bench because we can't work. Comrade Pernar, you are also a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186540	The Honorable Chairman has been injured. 230. Parliament, i.e. The Rules of Procedure which says this, no one can speak at the session before asking and receiving a word from the chairman. The following shall be inserted after the date of entry into force of this Agreement: In 231st, the president gave the MPs his word that they were reporting for the word. This is where they speak for themselves, interfere with the work of the Parliament, you don't stick to the Rules of Procedure, sir. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186541	It is. All right. I gave a warning. Now it's up to you, bud. Here you go. Buddy Pupovac, it's you. No, I don't. Comrade Glasovic, you already had a request for a break from counterpart Zekanovic. Comrade Bauk, here you go. No, I'm sorry. My colleague Bacic is early. For a break. You got it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186542	Thank you, Mr. President. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, I'm looking for a break of 10 minutes to consult once again at the club on this great law. We at the HDZ Representatives Club from day one say that this law is in line with earlier lists carried out in the Republic of Croatia and in the Republic of Croatia and in 2001 and in 2011 and that we are changing it to allow every Croatian citizen who is in the e-Citizen system to be listed in the census as the most important strategic record in Croatia without having a censuser coming to his home and carrying out a census. Therefore, in no way does this law reduce or increase the rights of anyone in the Republic of Croatia compared to the laws previously implemented in the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, any meal that comes from the opposition party club is unfounded, inappropriate and only has the intention of trying to fight the ruling majority, which unfortunately will not succeed. A colleague of Zekanovic's. A man who is full of the mouth of accusing someone of acting and being guided solely by commercial petty intent, actually conceals his own character. You repeat it day and day. You accuse this ruling majority that has contributed to the stabilisation of Croatia, the growth of Croatia's economy, the fact that Croatia lives much better today than before this government, that it bothers you, that you do not know how to deal with it, and that is your problem, and I ask you to do so with respect in future when you take HDZ into your mouth. Because if it wasn't for her you this Parliament would never have [[The incursion president: I thank my colleague Bačić.]] You'll see him as you won't see him. [[Intruder President: Comrade Bačić.]] without her. [[The incursion of the president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186543	The apartment will be approved. We have two injuries to the Rules of Procedure. Now, this is now turning into something that is the classic abuse of the Rules of Procedure to report for damage to the Rules of Procedure based on what one of the MPs is saying, probably trying to replicate. Now I'm going to make warnings so that I warn you in advance that, I see where this is going and I ask you to try to be correct. Here's your friend, Thunderbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186544	I, the Honorable President, must react because my colleague, Bacic, has really hurt an officer. 238. He accused lunchers of everything we said, we stand behind it. Yesterday I'm
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186545	Comrade Thunder, you know very well that it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186546	Well, you wouldn't let me explain the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Will you let me?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186547	It's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186548	The damage is to the Rules of Procedure because yesterday Furio Radin said HDZ would give these two amendments to minorities through sublegal acts.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186549	Have a seat, you get a warning because you abused the Rules of Procedure. Comrade Petrov, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186550	The Honorable Chairman. Even at the cost of giving me a warning, I must also point out that the officer has been injured. In 238, on the basis of the meal that a member of your ruling majority presented, I hope your colleague Furio Radin will forgive you for calling him a liar because your colleague Radin yesterday told you that your prime minister had proposed to him sublegal acts in which he allowed them to receive... minorities.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186551	Wait a minute, colleague Petrov, you're getting a second warning and you have no right to speak. Yeah, you got a warning because you didn't listen to me when you spoke 20 seconds longer than time. Comrade Pernar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186552	The Honorable Chairman. My colleague Bačić was injured by an article. 238. The Rules of Procedure, because, as predicted by the Rules of Procedure, they interfered with the second legislator in the presentation. I invite you to give a warning because otherwise this will be, I mean this is already a circus and a joke, but then it will be clear to everyone that you are selectively applying the Rules of Procedure because you gave Petrov a warning and not Bačić, and he broke the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186553	I'll be selective now, so I won't give you a warning. There you go, fellow Radin, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186554	In 238, of course, I didn't mention in any statement that the prime minister said something to me because I saw the Prime Minister today, and before that I saw him in Italy until there was no virus, so I simply couldn't speak to the Prime Minister at all, nor could I hear it. .../Speakers speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186555	You're getting a warning now because you've abused the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186556	So I ask you to give Mr. Petrov a warning because he tells a lie.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186557	Now you've received a warning... /The speakers speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186558	I disagree.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186559	Is anyone else picking up for a break? Comrade Bauk, here you go. You can't get a replica from your colleague Glasovic, it doesn't exist in the Rules of Procedure. .../Speakers speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186560	I can ask for a break from the President of the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186561	You can't because my colleague Zekanovic asked for a break. Come sit down, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186562	There we have discrimination in action, there is no... for Yugoslavs, to be... /Speakers speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186563	Your colleague Glasnović is being warned, please take a seat. Here's my colleague, Bauk. It's just a little more coming out right now, and I'm not gonna do any more damage to the Rules of Procedure because this is a circus right now. Here's another colleague, Zekanovic, please. No more.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186564	So, he's injured. 238nd colleague Bačić hurt him, so this is about the next one, Mr Bačić, it bothers you that I called the coalition a trade coalition of Croatian-Serbian and may it bother you. Unlike Andrej Plenkovic, my father founded HDZ, and without HDZ, I will prosper politically, and you will not.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186565	My colleague Zekanovic, please sit down, you have misused the Rules of Procedure and you get a warning. Please sit down. Comrade Bauk here for another break?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186566	I thank my colleagues and colleagues and thank you, Mr. President. I'm not looking for a break on behalf of the SDP. I'd like to say two sentences without getting a warning about a breach of the Rules of Procedure. The first sentence is that I condemn all those steps that we had the opportunity to hear, which were insulting or demeaning on a national basis, and secondly, Mr. President, I only want one explanation from you. Last time we broke the vote on this law, you said that the minority club should be consulted, as you informed us then please inform us now what has changed so that we can see what has changed and why it is now at the vote and then in that sense we will see how further. This debate we've had now is not good or encouraging. So I think it's okay for the parliamentary majority to inform us of their position as they have resolved their recommendations, we don't want to be an arbitration between the HDZ Club and the minority club, neither between the government or minorities, nor between the opposition. Therefore, for the sake of transparency, say what has changed, we will be based on this, and this nationalist folklore is not needed in this hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186567	I'll give you a break, and you didn't ask for a break, then you got me a little confused. I thought you were looking for a break. Then you misused the Rules of Procedure, so I'm gonna have to give you a heads-up. Do you need to take a break or what? You can't get a break you don't have a club, so I'm taking a 15-minute break now. We'll continue at 12.50. MEETING IN 12.35 HOURS [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 12.52 HOURS]] Proposer of the Government, the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives and the Club of National Minorities. We held a statement and a vote on amendments last week. The government was manifested on amendments to the National Minority Representatives Club and the census will be conducted according to the government's explanation. I am now voting on the Final Proposal for a Law on the List of Population, Households and Apartments in the Republic of Croatia in 2021. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes are 72 for, 4 abstentions and 24 against the adoption of the Census, Population, Households and Apartments Act in the Republic of 2021.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186569	We move to the next item of the agenda, that is: - Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law implementing Regulation (EU) No 515/2013. 528/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the making available on the market and use of biocidal products, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 839; Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia under Article 839. 85 Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia. 172. The Rules of Procedure of HS. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Health and Social Policy. I would like a representative of the motionary, respected State Secretary at the Ministry of Health, Mr. Željko Plazonić, to give us an additional explanation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186570	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS. Honorable MPs and MPs. Therefore, this legislative proposal lays down the conditions for making available on the market and the use of biocidal products in the Republic of Croatia, which contain the active substance in art. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 528/2012, as well as the obligation to keep an eyewitness in accordance with specific regulations governing chemicals. In addition, provisions relating to the powers of the competent sanitary inspection of the State Inspectorate in relation to the conduct of inspections are complemented when it is established that the restrictions laid down by the authorisation granted in the national authorisation procedure as well as in the case of imports of biocidal products from third countries in respect of biocidal products which are not authorised or provisions on the collection of data on poisoning and occupational diseases including biocidal products and infringements of the applicable law are not complied with. In addition, provisions on the notification of a biocidal product, provisions on the list of biocidal products to be published on the website of the Ministry of Health in place of the National Journal, subject to the continued update of the list of products and the introduction of new products, as well as provisions on the collection of data on poisoning, as well as professional diseases involving biocidal products, shall be amended. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186571	I thank the Honorable Secretary of State. Replica, dear colleague Tomislav Žagar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186572	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, more of a question than a replica, we have seen in the media today the recommendations that are given to citizens, related to the occurrence of the coronary virus, and which are the disinfectants that should be used to prevent this virus. Have you at the Ministry of Health issued any recommendations related to, with citizens' behaviour in view of the age, age, life span of that virus outside, outside of this organism and what are the means to be used to reduce the risk of and do you think it is necessary to give such instructions to citizens?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186573	Thank you. Mr. Plazonic's secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186574	As far as the coronaryvirus is concerned, we have issued general measures for possible prevention, but so far in the Republic of Croatia we have not registered a single case of coronary disease, and in this context we do not need such strict disinfectants or such strict protection from any possible infections, is there simply no such virus in our possession.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186575	I thank you for your response to the Secretary of State. Would the committee's rapporteurs perhaps like to take a word for it? No, I don't. I am opening a debate, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, dear colleague Vlatko Kopic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186576	Dear Mr. Vice President HS, Mr. Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Here, as we have heard before us, the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law implementing the EU regulation adopted on the basis of the European Parliament and the Council is concerning the making available on the market and use of biocidal products. In order to understand this whole bill, it is necessary to know what they are essentially biocidal products. These are substances and mixtures made in the form in which they are delivered to the user which consists, contains or produces one or more active substances and whose purpose is to destroy, deter, make harmless, prevent or control any harmful organism in any way other than purely physical or mechanical action. These are substances and mixtures obtained from substances or mixtures which themselves do not fall under this previously said and whose purpose is to destroy, deter, make harmless, prevent or control any harmful organism in any way other than I said purely physical or mechanical. The biocidal product may be placed on the market and used in the Republic of Croatia only if approved under EU Regulation No. 528/2012 if it contains an approved active substance or if it complies with the Biocidal Products Act if it contains that active substance. What kind of biocidal products are these? These are disinfectants, protective agents, or for the prevention of microbes or algae, implant protection products, as well as other biocidal products that can be means of preventing growing, growing ships, as well as equipment for aqua culture or other structures in water. After all, there are also embalming and stocking fluids. When it comes to biocidal products, there is a difference between a biocidal active substance and a biocidal product. Biocidal active substances are mostly chemical compounds, but they can also be microorganisms like, for example, bacteria. Biocidal products shall contain one or more biocidal effects of the active substance and may contain other inactive common additives that ensure efficiency as well as the desired PhD, Ph or viscosity, colour, smell, final product itself. Biocidal products are available on the market for the needs of professional, but also non-professional consumers. Such a product is a combination of active substance and a device that provides dedicated biocidal activity, and another example of such products available to consumers are products soaked with biocidal products such as clothing and gloves soaked with insecticides, and then, say, socks soaked with antibacterial substances and the like. Biocidals are also used in communal hygiene, disinfection, disinfection, deratization, for personal hygiene, for the protection of materials, for example, for the protection of the walls of houses from fungi and other intruders, then for ships of lupar or algae, wood from different intruders, but also in many other places, for example. to destroy harmful fish and birds. The most commonly used in medicine, agriculture, forestry and industry. These substances and these products are used as anti-treatment agents for disinfection under other circumstances such as those. is used in situations as short-term industrial biocidal products in water treatment, but also as a disinfectant in swimming pools. Many of these are essentially synthetic products, but there are also those that naturally appear and classify as natural biocides, derived from bacteria or plants, such biocides can be pesticides and antimicrobials. The Law implementing EU Regulation No 528 of the European Parliament and of the Council laid down that the Ministry of Health as a body responsible for the implementation of that Regulation and made available on the market and use of these biocidal products. The inspection of the implementation of the Regulation of this 58 in 2012 is carried out by the law by a sanitary inspection of the State Inspectorate in accordance with the rules governing both the part and the authority of the sanitary inspection and the control of chemicals. This EU Regulation provides that Member States may continue their current practice for the placing of a specific biocidal product on the market no later than 2 years after the approval of the last active substance on that product, so that the State can authorise its national rules to place exclusively products which comply with the 2007 European Community Regulation. This law should be complemented in the section relating to the powers of the competent sanitary inspection of the State Inspectorate in relation to the conduct when it is established that the restrictions established by the approved authorisations issued in the national authorisation procedure are respected. This law also amends the provisions on notifications and introduces classification codes of approval on the product’s own notification. In order to clarify the applicable provisions of legal and natural persons which report activities such as production, imports, i.e. the introduction of biocidal products by a specific proposal shall prescribe the keeping of an eyewitness in accordance with the specific regulation governing chemicals. This proposal also complements the provisions on data collection, poisoning and diseases involving biocidal products, and provides for a poison control centre for the Institute of Medical Research to send collected data to the Croatian Ministry of Health. Due to all of this, the HDZ Representatives Club will support the further procedure of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186577	Thank you. I conclude the debate, thank the Secretary of State, Mr. Zeljko Plazonic, and his associate for the reasons of the bill. We'll vote on this point when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186578	Proposal for a Act amending and supplementing the Law implementing EU Regulation No 528/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council as regards the making available on the market and use of biocidal products, first reading, P.Z.E. Number 839. The motion is Government, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. First, the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law implementing EU Regulation No 528/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the making available on the market and use of biocidal products and others, will be adopted, any objections and proposals will be submitted to the applicant to consider them when establishing the text of the final draft law. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the 104 votes for and 3 abstentions have reached the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186579	We move to the next item of the agenda, that is: - Proposal for the Foreign Law, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 840 The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia under Article 85. Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. I ask the representative of the representative of the respected secretary of state at the MUP, Mr. Zarko Katic, to give us an additional explanation of the bill. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186580	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Madam MPs, the area of entry, residence and work of foreigners in the Republic of Croatia is regulated by the current Act on Foreigners, which entered into force on 1 January 2012. The law has since been newized three times. First of all, to coordinate with the EU acquis relating to the work of seasonal workers, the entry and residence of third-country nationals who move within society for research, study, training, volunteering, student exchange and education projects. Otherwise, the draft law complies with a total of 23 directives, recommendations, decisions and resolutions of the European acquis and ensures the implementation of 8 EU regulations. Therefore, it is a large number of provisions in the draft legislation that were in line with the EU acquis or necessary for the implementation of the EU regulation. This bill therefore did not comply with the new directives, nor do we have such a commitment anytime soon. Otherwise, this bill contains provisions relating to the entry of foreigners who are nationals of third countries, visas, regulation of working legal status, provisions relating to family integration, secondary education and study, research, approval of residence, etc. EU Blue Cards to highly qualified third-country nationals, long-term residence and permanent stay, as well as to regulate the status of third-country nationals who have an approved long-term residence in other Member States of the European Economic Area. So, and now the applicable law, and the bill that is before you, will apply exclusively to the citizens of the so-called. third countries because last year it came into force and on 18 July 2019, the Law on the Citizens of the Member States of the European Economic Area and the members of their families so that the draft law before you does not apply to the citizens of those countries. The most important newspaper in this bill in relation to the current law is the regulation of a new model of foreign employment. Under this law, the Government of the Republic of Croatia will no longer make a decision on the establishment of an annual quota for the employment of foreigners, as it has done in the past 15 years since this model is in force, but employers will be obliged before the adoption, before applying for a residence permit and work permit to apply for the HZZ to carry out the labour market test. If the labour market test finds that there are no unemployed persons in the Republic of Croatia who meet the requirements of the employers, HZZ will issue a positive opinion on the employment of foreigners. Only after that can employers submit a request to the police administrations or stations of the MUP for the authorisation of stay and work. The draft law also provides for exceptions to the implementation of the labour market test relating to deficits, for example, carpenters, builders, waiters, butchers and other professions which have proved to be deficitous and to resolve the issue of licences for these professions, is prescribed within 15 days. Similarly, the exception is in the case of seasonal work up to 90 days when a period for issuing licences for stay and work is prescribed within 10 days. These, these seasonal affairs concern tourism, hospitality, agriculture. This bill also provides for provisions in which cases of police administration, i.e. police stations, may issue residence and work permits and without the opinion of the HZZ. This is about third-country nationals who and under the applicable law can be authorised to stay and work outside the annual quota. These are, for example, key company staff, investors, highly qualified workers who receive so-called "Specials". a blue card, persons arriving in accordance with the internal transfer within companies, means companies, service providers for the implementation of international contracts or agreements concluded by the Republic of Croatia, etc. In particular, the new employment model, as well as the experience in implementing the applicable law, requires a greater link between the state authorities and the institutions that take part in the decision-making of foreigners. So, when it comes to police administrations and stations, tax administrations, pension and health services, inspection bodies, etc., everyone in the part of the exercise of control as well as the protection of workers and their rights. In accordance with the EU Regulation of 25 March 2010 amending the Convention implementing the Schengen Agreement, a new institute of long-term visas, etc. is also being introduced. visa type D, in the event that a third country national is granted a temporary stay for one of the purposes provided for by this law, such as work, family integration, study, scientific research, secondary education, etc., that is, if he is granted a residence permit and work permit, and he needs a visa to enter the Republic of Croatia. Namely, in cases where a visa was granted, a work permit, and I'll remind you that the number of work permits issued over the last few years has increased greatly, so, let's say 2015 was, 2016 was 1,500 permits, '17. It was 9,000, and it was '18. 32 446 work permits issued in order to reach 73 060 in the last year. So more than 73,000. Among the foreigners who come to work in Croatia, they are no longer just citizens of neighbouring countries and citizens of countries for whom they do not need a visa to enter the Republic of Croatia, but are also citizens of many countries who need a visa to join the Republic of Croatia. In doing so, after the work permit was issued, waiting for visas has been, until now, quite a long month, a month and a half, and the cost for the employer has been paid, and often there have been some problems that due to the lack of a type D visa, that the worker who comes to Croatia, for example, has been facing certain problems. that he was returned from the airport and could not come to Croatia because he was suspected of either trading people or coming to the Republic of Croatia for further migration to EU countries. With this visa, these problems will decrease considerably, I would say and resolve. When I talked about the number of work permits and the different citizens of the different countries receiving them, here's the interesting fact that last year, among these 73,000 work permits, there are 95 citizens. So last year in Croatia it came to work as citizens from 95 countries in the world. It continues to precede citizens of our neighbouring countries, such as BiH, with slightly more than 31 thousand work permits, Serbia with more than 14.5 thousand work permits, then states in the immediate environment, Kosovo, Northern Macedonia and Albania, then Ukraine, but over 1,000 licenses have already been granted to citizens of certain countries such as Nepal, India or China. In addition to the more significant newspapers, I would also like to highlight the newspaper on the subject, the regulation of more favourable conditions for the regulation of temporary and permanent stay for members of the Croatian people with foreign citizenship or without citizenship, which have confirmation of the Central State Office for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, so that they have acquired the status of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. Persons to whom the Central State Office of the Croats determines the status of Croats without Croatian citizenship in the procedure of granting temporary or permanent stay in its request must only be subject to travel clearance and are not required to prove the means of maintenance and health insurance. Also in the procedure of granting permanent stay other than these conditions, they are not obliged to prove the knowledge of Croatian and Latin letters. Similarly, under more favourable conditions, permanent stay can be obtained by members of the family of a Croatian citizen, therefore under more favourable conditions than it was under the applicable law. In the proposal for a law on the treatment of illegal migrants, there were no major amendments to the current text of the law. The novelty in this law is also that all solutions to police administrations or police stations are no longer permitted to appeal, but administrative dispute can be initiated, namely the position of the Ministry of Administration which is the competent authority for the implementation of the General Administrative Procedure Act and the basis of their opinion in the law was implemented such a provision. On 31 December 2018, in the 19th year in the Republic of Croatia there were 62474 foreigners, of which 51115 had a temporary stay and 11350 a permanent stay. The entry into force of this law is scheduled for 1 January 2021. for the reason that a decision has already been taken for this year to determine the quota of work permits and therefore, this system will function this year, and then all the bodies that need to be prepared for the new model of foreign employment have been left with the deadline that, after the entry into force of the law we hope to have by the middle of this year, to prepare for the implementation of the new model and thus allow Croatian employers to get easier employees when there are not enough qualified workers on the Croatian labour market then it will be foreigners. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186581	Thank you. Replica esteemed colleague Anka Mrak-Taritash, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186582	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, given the new model that is related to foreigners who will be employed and since it is necessary to seek the opinion of the competent employment office on whether there are certain employees at the office who can be, I wonder if you were doing this law, doing any simulation of how long it takes about a day? Why do I ask you that? For the simple reason that we must allow employers to solve their labour problem relatively quickly. You and I know as well as I do that there are often cases that some who have reported to one employer have reported to another, have appeared somewhere in another country, and while these are solving these papers for individual employees, this one has already got a job somewhere else, so I wonder if there has been any simulation of how many days it would take from applying, collecting and thinking about the institution and solving everything on the MUP? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186583	Thank you. State Secretary's response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186584	Your Honor, ma'am. MPs, your initial premise is correct, there is a great fluctuation of workers, so they come, they look for work both in the Republic and in other EU member states and then where they get before work or where it seems more favourable to them to go there, so it is rare that the already approved work permit is failing and that the employer must seek a new worker. We have communicated this model very well with all social partners, with several meetings we have been with Croatian Employers' Association, HGK, HOK, so they have agreed to this model and provisions. The largest, we estimate that the largest number of work permits will be issued for deficiting occupations, which is logical, so within 15 days. Part, a significant part will be issued after seasons within 10 days, and for those remaining occupations, our assessment is that the procedures will last for up to 30 days. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186585	Thank you. Next replica, dear colleague Miro Bulj, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186586	Thank you very much. Secretary, poor policies and the loss of working potential in the eviction of Croatians working in third countries we have come to import labour. As you said, the increase is significant, it's thousands of percent increase, which means we don't even have quotas anymore, we've come to 100,000 people now that we import as labour annually. And now we've come to where, my dear, there are no boundaries now, now who can come to fathers, how fathers and what they want to do, which is why we lost the working potential of Croatian citizens who went to third countries and that's bad. Here's just an example of us here declaring us, I don't know what we're in national,... Has everything, fascists who know what we're not, but the fact is that from Serbia last year to the 8th month there were 11,000 inhabitants, 11,000 people from Serbia, and 20 and, and, 20 from BiH [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] the citizen of BiH. [[Intruder: I thank my colleague Bulj]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186587	Here's the Secretary of State's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186588	The law on foreigners is certainly one framework for resolving and instability in the Croatian labour market. So, this is one framework where the state can regulate the area by its laws and other acts, allow certain, primarily deficiting interests of workers, and then those who can give some added value, so to highly qualified professionals, but also in this law we have installed one provision in Article 57 where the Government can, on a proposal from certain bodies responsible for the economy, demographics or work, make decisions on and criteria for the arrival of a larger number of workers, but the other population can therefore make a decision on the immigration of third-country nationals to the Republic of Croatia if this is shown to be necessary in any area significant for economic development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186589	Thank you. Next replica, dear colleague Tomislav Žagar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186590	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State, so the intensity of this legislative proposal is clear to me and you have now mentioned in the replica that you have spoken to all relevant stakeholders regarding the employment of foreigners in the Republic of Croatia. However, what we cannot read from this legislative proposal, and only later will this be shown, perhaps in a year that will have the consequences of such measures. We see that the trade unions resist it, that they have made their proposals, the remarks concerning this allowting of non-quota foreigners, and in that sense they have the right, because despite the fact that the HZZ will check the market, it has another role, and these are requalifications of long-unemployed persons, their return to the labour market and there is now neglecting that fact, and on the other hand, it is a very important price for competitiveness. By importing, by the arrival of the foreign labour force, we are actually staying in the status quo, not increasing the labour price or the competitiveness of companies.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186591	Thank you. State Secretary's response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186592	Dear Mr. Representative, just by including HZZ, which is responsible for the evaluation of the labour market in the Republic of Croatia, this situation will avoid any administrative decision to import a certain number of workers into the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, each individual, individual employment will depend on an assessment or a labour market test carried out by HZZ, and as we know not only to intervene in employment but also on education, training of workers who have lost their jobs or long-term unemployed for new skills to be competitive on the Croatian labour market. So certainly the Government should make sure that employers do not reach for cheaper labour at the expense of domestic labour, if there is, but if it is not available then it cannot be allowed that the Croatian employer does not have the workforce when he needs it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186593	I thank the Secretary of State. Next replica, dear colleague Zeljko Raguž. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186594	State Secretary you said 32,000 residence and work permits were issued in 2018, in 2019. 73,000. Whether giving up the annual quota set by the Government and moving to a new model of employers' and HZZ cooperation will give a more realistic picture of the needs of the labour market in the Republic of Croatia or whether the new deadlines will be 45 days, 15 days and 10 days to help address the issue of the needs of the Croatian labour market more effectively.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186595	Thank you. The Secretary of State's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186596	The government believes that this model, which is a matter of certain simulations and evidence, exists that Croatian employers will get needed workers easier and faster if the needs for workers cannot be reconciled from the Croatian labour market. Among all these licenses issued over the past years several areas of work, so several activities and several occupations are jumping out. These interests will, in all likelihood, be defined as deficitary by the Governing Council of the HZZ and will therefore go according to a reduced procedure, no labour market test will be required. So, I'll repeat the carpenters, the army, the builders, the waiters, the cooks and the like. We know that some of the activities in Croatia are seasonal in nature, unfortunately I would say, but it will not be necessary for them to carry out a long-term procedure, and for all those other professions that are needed, the interest of the labour market will be exercised and a final decision will be taken.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186597	Thank you. Another respected counterpart, Nada Turina Đuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186598	Dear Mr. Secretary of State, we welcome, of course, the adoption of this law, but the fact is that you suggested it enter into force early next year is not good. Already there is complete chaos in the labour market, the need for a labour force that is not in Croatia is enormous, and the situation you have made with the previous law or law that is now in force and with the rules that are in force in our police administrations are rather chaotic situations related to smaller and medium-sized entrepreneurs who have to report a labour force that comes outside the Republic of Croatia. I don't know if you're just not going to see or don't see how this procedure is going through our precincts in the county, we definitely think that entrepreneurs are just making it difficult and not making it easier to work. And that this law should have already been passed, and not yet been prolonged for next year. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186599	I thank my colleague Đuric. Secretary of State, here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186600	In addition to the adoption of laws and sublegislative acts, lady MPs are of course to be prepared for any amendments to the law and to implement certain organisational, technical and personnel improvements. In that sense, we are in a constant conversation with our police administrations and stations, if it wasn't so not possible with 3,000 three years ago, 9,000 two years ago and last year, last year 32 now 72,000 licenses at all. So, such large numbers are equal to or less people, unfortunately it wouldn't have been possible if we hadn't organized ourselves properly, but every waiting, every overrun of time, of course, is not good, and we're trying to make it as little as possible. I'm convinced that with these solutions for 80, 90% of the cases, we'll be faster and more efficient. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186601	Thank you for your response. Would the committee's rapporteurs perhaps like to take a word for it? Here you go, pals. Which board? The parent committees aren't, but okay, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186602	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Respected representatives of the ministry, respected colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Gender Equality at the 35th session held on 19 February 2020, so today it discussed the proposal for a law on foreigners P.Z.E. 840, which has been sent by the government to the Croatian Parliament by the government by an act of 6 February 2020. The Committee discussed the draft law in accordance with Article 179. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as an interested working body. The applicant's representative introduced the reasons for submitting the bill, making it clear that the provisions relating to entry, stay and work of foreigners are laid down in this proposal. As the most important newspaper in relation to the current law is the regulation of a new model of regulation for the employment of sites. The proposal for a law stipulates that a positive opinion of the Croatian Government is no longer required by the procedure for the adoption of an application for residence and work permits, since the Government of the Republic of Croatia will no longer prescribe an annual quota for the employment of foreigners. The following debate pointed out the need to align all, including this law with the Law on Gender Equality, the Law on Life Partnership of the same sex and the Law on Discretion of Discrimination of Discrimination. In this respect, it is noted that the life partnership constitutes a form of family union, bearing witness to the Constitutional Court's decision of 7 February 2020, which found that the provisions leaving out a particular social group produce general discriminatory effects on the same-sex-oriented persons living in life and non-formal life partnerships, which is constitutionally unacceptable. After the debate was held, the members and members of the committee decided by five votes for, two abstentions to propose to the Croatian Assembly the following conclusion, that the proposal for a law on foreigners was adopted, and that any objections, proposals and opinions submitted in the debate would be addressed to the proposer in order to draw up a final draft of the law. Here is the hope that by the second reading you will comply with the above law with some of the organic laws adopted by the Croatian Parliament and that we will avoid as was the case two years ago in the work of this Act on Foreigners, where we have lost the ruling at the European Court of Human Rights because we have disabled the staying, work and establishment of a life partnership in the Republic of Croatia in the hope that you will respect our proposals until the second reading, this was the opinion of the Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186603	I thank my esteemed colleague Sabina the Voice. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, dear colleague Bozo Ljubic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186604	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and fellow MPs, Mr. Secretary of State. Here are the fourth amendments to the Foreign Law after the entry into force of 1 January 2012. This time, as in most previous cases, the main purpose was to bring the law into line with directives, recommendations, decisions and resolutions of the European Parliament or by adopting a European acquis. However, we have always, as we have done this time, integrated and innovative changes and additions with the basis of specific needs of the Republic of Croatia. Thus, when amending and supplementing the law in 2018, we have included an amendment to the proposal for a committee chairing the Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia on the basis of which persons who have established Croatian status without Croatian citizenship are not considered foreigners within the meaning of this law and establish their status and rights in accordance with the special regulation on relations between the Republic of Croatia and Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. Thus, we have brought this law into line with the Law on relations between the Republic of Croatia and the Law on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia, and this bill makes it clear that provisions relating to the entry, stay and work of foreigners in the Republic of Croatia are laid down in a clearer way. Provisions have also been proposed which, unlike the applicable Foreign Law, regulate and employ them in the Republic of Croatia in a different way. The biggest difference between this bill and the applicable law is the regulation of a new model of foreign employment because this proposal stipulates that the Government of the Republic of Croatia no longer makes a decision on the establishment of an annual quota for the employment of foreigners but that employers are obliged to apply for a licence before applying for prior request for the opinion of the HZZ or the implementation of the labour market test. If, in turn, it is found that there are no unemployed persons in the Republic of Croatia who meet the requirements of employers, the HZZ will only then issue a positive opinion on the employment of foreigners. Only after that can employers apply for authorisation to stay and work in police administrations or stations. It is also prescribed that that procedure should be completed before the competent authorities until the authorisation has been issued within 45 days. Of course, there are certain exceptions to the implementation of the market test related to certain deficits that require urgent employment needs such as carpenters, masons, waiters, butchers, etc. where that deadline is prescribed for 15 days and in the case of seasonal harvesting, etc. That deadline was prescribed on the 10th day that we were informed of and the Honorable Secretary of State. Furthermore, this proposal of the Foreign Law will also regulate the provision of a long-term visa as a stay-in-the-RH authorisation for a longer than 90 days in any period of up to 180 days. The prescribed provisions in part of the approval of temporary stay for humanitarian purposes are then specified, there is also a provision concerning a more favourable acquisition of permanent stay for members of the family of the Croatian citizen in such a way that the condition of 5g should not be met. legal stay, and it is not necessary to prove and the means of maintenance, nor to take the exam from the knowledge of Croatian and Latin letters. In this way, it meets the suggestions of our citizens who are in the marriage community with persons of foreign citizenship. On the same track, it is also more favourable to obtain permanent stay for members of the Croatian people, and should not prove means of restraint, nor take the exam from knowledge of Croatian and Latin letters, etc. What, therefore, he also reported, informed us, therefore, of the guest secretary of state. The adoption of the proposed law also prescribes more favourable provisions for obtaining permanent stay in the Republic of Croatia for members of the family of Croatian citizens, members of the Croatian people who have permanent citizenship and, therefore, a significant step has been taken by this law in the operationalisation of amendments which do not consider members of the Croatian people without nationality or foreign citizenship as the basis of this law. The categories of jobs for which the MUP through the competent police administration or becomes an authorisation for staying and working without the opinion of the HZZ are also prescribed. Therefore, it is the citizens of third countries who, even under the applicable law, can be authorised to stay and work outside the annual quota. For example, key staff of companies, craftsmen, investors, highly qualified workers, EU Blue Card, persons coming in line with internal transfer within society, service providers for the implementation of international contracts or agreements concluded by the Republic of Croatia, etc. This provision should further encourage foreign investors to invest in the Republic of Croatia, so this law therefore has an even wider, therefore, development dimension. The preparation of this bill was accompanied by a very lively and content debate, including the promoter, but we here also need to pay particular attention to union proposals, but also to entrepreneurs, especially in deficits such as construction, tourism or certain branches of agriculture, especially during harvest periods. Thus, the Association of Independent Trade Unions of Croatia is concerned that the liberalisation of the employment of foreigners could go to the expense of unemployed Croatian citizens at employment offices since the government no longer prescribes quotas. It is important that the applicant took note of this concern, explaining how the proposed concept of foreign employment guarantees the priority protection of the domestic labour force and the employer cannot get a positive opinion of the HZZ if the labour market test has shown that there are adequate labour force available to be carried out. Of course, we MPs need to take this concern into consideration, so if better solutions are found, we should propose them. A completely different kind of concern was expressed by the Croatian Tourism Association, which supports leaving the current quota model. As a key problem of the proposed new model, they consider it to be still a demanding and long-term procedure and setting new restrictions, as well as additional and repeated conditions for employers, and many of the conditions envisaged are therefore incomplete and unnecessary, and there is no way to verify them. However, also here, the applicant clarifies that the basis of the labour market assessment provides for a decision on deficit interests which will not require a labour market test, which is clearly, therefore, written, and which will significantly facilitate and speed up the procedure for the recruitment of foreigners. However, it should also be known and agreed that the conditions must be met by an employer for the employment of foreigners representing a minimum guarantee of the regulated business of employers in the Republic of Croatia and effective protection, hence domestic labour in employment offices. Finally, colleagues and colleagues based on everything we have heard from the promoters, what we have read in the law, and here is the basis of this debate, the HDZ Club supports the adoption of this law in the first reading and expects that the final proposal will bring about the best solutions in the interests of both citizens and entrepreneurs, and all together in line with the EU acquis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186605	Thank you. We move on to the next debate, on behalf of the GLAS Representatives Club esteemed colleague Anka Mrak-Taritash, please welcome your colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186606	Thank you, well-respected Vice President HS, the esteemed secretary of state with associates, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us the first reading of the proposal of the Foreign Law. The basic law is from 2011. which has been changed several times, the last change has been in this assembly, so 2018, and we appreciate that it is always good that when there are so many changes and that somehow they are more operational, you have decided on a new law which is somehow nomotechnically cleaner and simple and everything else. As the opening secretary of state also said, the basic reason why it is going into the new law and why we have it at all in the debate is related to the entry into the residence and work of foreigners in the Republic of Croatia. We at the GLAS Club will support and support this in our first reading, there will certainly be some topics that we will open, and by the second reading it will be able to correct or coordinate. It's the only way we're showing our concern, I'd like to see another reading relatively fast and not wait for the law to be 1.1.'21. but to come into force as soon as possible. Before the problem we have in the Republic of Croatia we can glare and pretend that there is no or we try or we can try to create our regulation in a way that we try to solve this problem. And the problem we have, we have a labour shortage problem. From this same pay phone, somewhere in 2018 in another debate, and the debate was about me thinking about some strategy I expressed concern and I said in 2019, if we continue like this, we will need 50,000 jobs. The secretary of state had initially denied me, so I was talking about 50,000 jobs that would have to be filled with someone else because simply our pool is empty and there are no more people who could be working in those jobs, the State Secretary initially denied me and said that around 73,000 work permits were in last year 2019. So, the situation is alarming. Is the situation alarming for a reason? In order to survive at all, we must have someone who will work. If you don't have your own people, so your own pool, you have to try to realize it in some other way. I remember well in 2013 when Croatia joined the EU, when there was one big meeting that Mrs. Angela Merkel and who turned to a delegation that was from Croatia and asked if you were ready for what will happen to you, which is that we will make up for your quality workforce, no matter who it is, take it from me, are you willing to make up for it. Of course, as we always know, we have shown ourselves to be much more ready, smarter, more organized than we really are, we've nodded with our heads, and we haven't, we haven't realized at all what she's talking about, and she's saying that the moment you joined the EU, the EU has become open to our citizens, but not only that. I went a long time ago, in some past century and in a country in high school, and I remember geography lessons when it came to white plague. The white plague was the eviction of certain parts of Croatia, or depopulations of these individual parts. Of course that's common now. Not only do we have the information that last year, incomparably less born in Croatia than it has been since we've recorded it, but you have and that Europe and the world for young people have become their normal environment, they have no problem going and I don't know, working in Ljubljana, going from Ljubljana to Budapest, going to Singapore, going from Singapore to Australia, and I don't know, America is going back to Scandinavia. It's their most normal way of life. But what we need to take care of with our politics and our particulars is how to make it easier, that is, to ensure that what we need is the workforce we have first from the pool that is surrounded by us, and then on and on. I will talk about, and there is no concern and there is no concern for anyone else, anyone who wants to work, anyone who wants to requalified can work in Croatia and there is no concern that his job will be taken by someone else for the simple reason that we live in an age where information is available at the same time. As far as I was concerned, I was telling the secretary of state what I heard from the field. So, someone comes in, shows a desire to work with us, applying not only to our employer, but also to an employer who is in Italy and to someone who is in Portugal. Whoever answers him first, who solves him first, he goes there. So when our employer comes to solve all the paperwork he needs, this one's already started working in Portugal. So it's a real condition. I'll talk about two kind of, two groups of work. One is construction, the other is tourism. Croatia, a large part of its GDP is based on tourism. Tourism is a branch that is very sensitive to weather conditions, disasters and everything else, but we've been lucky, we're lucky that last time it hasn't been so relatively stable in terms of some other things, that some other destinations are really politically unstable and that every year, not only do we record that the tourist came something more, it's much more important that they spend a lot more than they spent in the past years. But people in tourism are already speaking clearly, and they've been saying it for a few years, and I remember an example that was two, three years ago, asked for someone to clean the hotel rooms, so a cleaner/cleaner. 30 reported to the ad that he was, three or three came to the interview, and no one was interested in the job. There are things you can't solve differently than you can only decide that a man does to you. Still, about cleaning up, about preparing food, about a number of other things, so everything that they do is human activity. He's doing his job. Therefore, those who are in tourism, they are desperate. That despair of yours shows all the time. Something will be made easier for them at a time when there are no quotas, but whatever the odds are, they're gone. For the simple reason, I remember well when the quota was at 1,000 per year, so we talked about the quota that we allowed 1,000 people who were nationals of some other countries to come to work with us annually. It's past time, it's over, it's over, it's gone. The other activity that I'm well following is the work of construction. Today, when you're making a deal, no matter how big or small a deal you're making, no one dares to make a deal anymore because he's not sure who's coming to work on Monday. Croatia has been known for its quality construction workers, not only those who are lower qualifications but who are well-known for its quality builders, for its quality army, for its quality carpenters, for its quality ceramics, today you need someone to even come home to set up plates to find yourself quite ailing, and when you do not even ask how much more it costs to set up plates, it is recently a friend of mine who arranges the apartment for me. I said, look, if you need an open heart or brain surgery, I can ask someone that, but if you need a ceramic who's gonna set you up with ceramic tiles, don't ask me because I'm not even sure how many of them there are or aren't anymore. So, it was Croatia that had this tradition of really quality to say craftsmanship, basic work, final work. We just don't have it. This Act on Foreigners will make it easier for you to get part of the workforce to do it for you, but we need to ask ourselves, and that is absolutely related to the second portfolio of how many children have enrolled in these activities, how much we stimulate them, how much we insist on it, but that's another topic. Let me repeat this once again, we think that this law is good or it has some improvements to do, and you will hear it through the debates. It seems to us that it would be much better if we could get him into another reading as quickly as possible and get him into effect and make life easier. Now it comes to that part that's procedural. If we complicate the whole process that ends up getting permission on the MUP and if we make this whole process difficult, we won't do anything important. I, it's no accident that I asked if it was ever done, how many days it took, we all kind of rely on e-digitalization, in the e-citizens, in the e-processe, it's all possible if they're created a series of preconditions. So, it would be very simple what I know, every three months, but I'm really now discussing something that should be considered, that every three months HZZ gives a report of what interests are, in which occupations are open that foreigners can receive, or what occupations are closed because there are. That would be enough every three months so employers don't get into that process. What's the point, the point of having a worker come to you to work here, that you can relatively quickly provide all the papers you need for him to work for you tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, because if we don't make sure he's gone. Not once, really, not once, until the employer gets there, gets in line, everything secures there's no man left to do it. It's something to prevent and it's something to prevent. I call on you to have another conversation with the employers’ association between the first and second readings and to see what is holding them back in this process today or so that you can do so to make their lives easier. I must admit that in GLAS, we absolutely listen to all the objections that are, we listen to the objections and unions and employers, but in a country where you still have as a quota closed, you have 73,000 foreigners working for you because you don't have anyone who will work for you from the locals. This means, in 2000, if it was 2019, it means to you in 2020. 130, 140,000. So, you have a number of things that you need to ensure that we really have young people and children training for the professions that we need and that are deficiting and there are a number of measures that encourage it, but also allow employers to work because the one who works, pays taxes, the full state budget, and everything else that is, and ensures that someone goes back to school, so it's a closed circle. So please do three things until the second reading. First, once again talking to employers, the second thing to see is that regarding HZZ, you make it easier for you not to have to go there in particular, but that it is possible for a different and third thing to see that the law goes into effect so that we do not wait 1.1.'21, rather than have him put into effect before that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186607	Thank you. The next debate on behalf of SDSS Representatives' Club, a respected counterpart, Boris Milosevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186608	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, this is a very important bill, we have actually a new law being proposed after a number of changes that contain numerous and important solutions, especially those that concern actually labour markets. That's what some of my colleagues have been talking about, most of the time, through the so-called so-called. The quota system and for years is a constant question of the amount of these quotas in certain activities, whether they are real, whether it is actually a list of the wishes of employers or the real lack of domestic labour. Definitely the outflow of the domestic labour force created a problem, actually the workforce on the domestic market, and a new solution needs to be found. But I wouldn't be talking about it right now, I believe he'll talk to my colleagues. I'd like to say a few things that I've managed to isolate from a number of interesting solutions to this law. I'd like to say something that's important to me and perhaps to my voters. Definitely what is important is that the law remains and does not make it more unfavourable than the current 2013 law contains, for example, a permanent stay which is granted to persons who have an uninterrupted temporary stay and in refugee status for at least 10 years, which proves to be the confirmation of the competent authority or the approval of permanent residence of a third-country national who had residence in the Republic of Croatia on 8.10.In '91, which is the user of the return, renewal or housing programme, which, of course, proves again by the competent authority's confirmation. So what I want to point out is that it is very important for us that the existing legal solution remains unchanged or that it is not more unfavorable than it is in force because, for example, these people, especially those who are waiting for the renewal of them, are no longer very much. Unfortunately, the process of rebuilding family homes that have been killed by war is still ongoing and not all requirements are still resolved and administrative procedures and appeal procedures are still pending and construction works are waiting on the ground to restore the house. So these people are not to blame that the state is slow to resolve their demands, which waits 10, 15 years for the request to be resolved and the house to be restored. And then we can't punish them for the slowness of the state, for example, by punishing them or making their status more difficult. What I said about the renovation is the same thing for example for housing care, especially when we talk about the housing of former tenants who are also waiting for 10, 15 years to settle their demands, so when the request and the positive settlement are then waiting for the assignment of a state apartment, then they are on hold for 3.4.5 years with a solution when they will get a state apartment for rent. So this category of people must remain protected. This bill provides for one solution that may not be the happiest solution to the current law, and therefore this draft law proposes to abolish in some way the right of appeal, which is the constitutional category for numerous solutions made in the administrative procedures conducted by the first-degree bodies of the MUP. The explanation is very logical and by law, because the existing legal solution, which is that the complaints are being decided by the MUP's committee, is not legal for me because first-degree solutions are being made by the police administration as a first-degree solution, and the police administration is actually part of the MUP. The MUP has this commission which is in fact an imaginary second-degree body and is not a real appeal body and we cannot even consider it under the Law on Administrative Procedure to be a public legal body and, therefore, a valid legal solution is not good to resolve by appeal in such a way because we do not actually have a valid second-degree settlement. Here we could say that the same body solves both in the first degree and in the complaint. This law or draft proposal proposes that this be abolished and referred immediately to the administrative dispute, to be brought before the Administrative Court. We can't say that this is the happiest solution, although it's legal for me, unlike this first one, because administrative disputes and procedures before the Administrative Court take too long. It would be good if we had some sort of analysis in terms of how many complaints there are in the appeal procedure, what is the time period of resolving these complaints, and what is the speed of resolution before the Administrative Courts. It would be good for that reason to decide on the basis of such an analysis whether we will abolish the right to appeal in a number of proceedings and to go immediately to an administrative dispute or to find another solution to ensure the right of appeal to any party in the administrative procedure. What I would also like to say is about the law itself, and the lack of these solutions has proved to be in practice so far, concerns the carrying out of a security check for third-country nationals, so when a security check is carried out, it is decided that this person is a danger to national security and then that person is expelled from the solution itself, it always says that this person is jeopardising national security that he is dangerous to national security. And in practice it is often controversial, it is not a questionable right of the state to protect itself, we cannot dispute it in any state, nor is it disputed that the service conducts security checks only is what we must try to build into the law and in practice that this assessment and decision are not adjudicated but that it is subject to judicial review, that the person is warned in a procedure which is the reasons why this person is found dangerous to national security and that in this way he can complain in a good way. And the argument cannot be just one sentence that this person is dangerous to national security and that he is expelled, so that person must know for what reasons it has adopted such an assessment and why the state has acted in such a way as to file a complaint and that if the appeal body is finally able to review such a type of conduct and service that conducts a security assessment, as well as the MUP that accepts this opinion of the security service and signs, so it stands 100% above such an assessment, so we need to provide quality legal protection only for that reason in order to ensure at the end and judicial review that there is no situation that the service can arbitrarily decide who is dangerous and who is not. I would also like to say something about a solution that could have been said problematicly, and at least that was the way in the proposal for passengers to ask passengers for the insight of these documents, it needs to be more detailed and sensitive for me to approach this matter because the fact is that carriers do not have public authority to ask anyone about public documents. Someone may also refuse public correction, which will determine the validity of such documents. So a lot of more questions are being raised here than we do, and in no way do we help the state in any way to discover in advance someone who doesn't have a valid ID and who I don't know wants to smuggle without paper, and we bring in the awkward position of carriers who say they're neither dressed, nor have tools, and in the end, if it were in practice, there could be unpleasant situations where racial profiling might also be talked about assessing someone based on the fact that it's suspicious that he has papers or no papers. A similar practice I saw in the U.S. when I was ten years ago and I'm saying it could be very, very embarrassing. Besides, I'd say you would. In 57, which relates to a part of life partnership should therefore be linked to a life partnership should in some way be deleted or linked to family integration because the Life Partnership Act is an organic law and therefore the creation of a differentiation could lead to discrimination between all those who are in the family community with the person of the life partnership because the Life Partnership Act defines life partnership as a community of family life and thus bring the bill of life into line with the Life Partnership Act and would not violate the Law on Gender Equality and would not violate the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination, in a way they would also strengthen the awareness of officials that the life partnership is a real community of family life of the same sex. Finally, it would certainly welcome the more favourable acquisition of permanent stay for members of the Croatian citizen family in such a way as not to meet the five-year legal stay requirement for four years, I think it should be reduced to less. And I welcome certainly the solution that these persons do not have to prove the means of maintenance or take the exam from the knowledge of Croatian and Latin letters because it is simply an assumption if someone is married to a Croatian citizen and even if they are in a fake marriage sooner or later it will be revealed. But persons who are married to a Croatian citizen assume that they sincerely want to live in the Republic of Croatia, live in a family community and that they have defined themselves for life and in some way should make their lives easier for them not only for those persons but for their entire family and their spouses who are Croatian citizens, as well as children who are most likely Croatian citizens. Here, thanks, that's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186609	Thank you. We move to the next debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists esteemed colleague Ines Strenja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186610	It's important this law, it's important in the moment it comes because it's trying to save you that. We read as many of our caterers as they're looking for the workforce right now, we're aware of how many of our shipyards, our remaining industrial power plants are looking for workers, qualified workers, and we're trying to regulate these work permits by this law. But in fact everything that we haven't thought about now comes to us at a charge, you who have actually been in power each other and after 300,000 of those who had to leave this country looking for their job now we will try in any way to introduce those who will keep that country and cover the jobs that are needed. That's what my predecessors have already been told, and I'm going to talk about one topic again, which I think should be discussed as well, which this law is now being touched on, although it was primarily meant by facilitating employment and importing labour. Therefore, the exercise of the rights of children of foreign citizens who have found themselves in the Republic of Croatia without the escort of their parents or other persons who are legally obliged to take care of them are children without escorts. After the refugee wave in 2015, the number of unaccompanied children was significantly increased and there were more than 200 at one point and more than 300 in Croatia 2016, in order to fall about 100 now every year and despite all the problems continued, the problems remained unresolved, so there were no preconditions for the appropriate acceptance and provision of assistance to this extremely vulnerable group of children. The treatment of a child is based on 4 key principles of the Convention on the Rights of the Child. Protecting the child's well-being, protecting against all forms of discrimination, the right to life, security and development and the right to participate and freely express your own opinion. Various riots, war conflicts, and escape, children are at great risk of being separated from family and care providers. Thus, unaccompanied children are listed and as unaccompanied minors are girls and boys under 18. who are separated from both their parents and who are not cared for by adults who are legally or normally responsible for them. They are also children who are accompanied by family members, but they are separated from both parents or persons, persons who, in accordance with the law and custom, should have cared for that child. Children separated from parents face risks, as well as unaccompanied children, and their protection also requires the greatest and unsustainable attention. Girls and boys who are unaccompanied and separated from their parents have the right to international protection. They often need urgent protection and help, all children have equal needs, but some groups of children may need more protection. This includes children without escorts and children separated from parents, children victims of trafficking in people and victims of sexual abuse, children who have survived violence, especially sexual violence, and gender-based violence, children who are involved or were involved in armed groups, children in custody, children who are socially discriminated against, children who have mental or physical difficulties. As I told you, it is officially believed that the so far is children who are enrolled in Europe's territory that more than 10,000 have disappeared officially, and that this is only the tip of the iceberg, this number is now between 20,000 and 30,000 children who have disappeared on the territory of a continent like Europe. According to the UN, therefore UNHCR and UNICEF are clear goals, and this is to prevent children from being separated from parents or persons who care about them as much as possible and when it is possible to identify and register girls and boys without escorts and girls and boys separated from parents, to seek families, to connect children with their family as soon as possible and, if possible, to ensure that children receive the necessary protection and care by respecting the specific needs of each child in terms of gender and origin, as well as the overall goal of finding a lasting solution. The Protocol on the treatment of unaccompanied children has been good, adopted since 2018, and has been included in all bodies of state administration and units of local and regional self-government, public authorities, public institutions, international organisations, civil society organisations including in cooperation and religious organisations for humanitarian actions. So I come to what should have been regulated by this law. I won't speak again where we put such children in the Republic of Croatia. That's what I've been talking about on many occasions, putting them in juvie homes, children's homes with behavioral disorders, which is absolutely inadequate, and that's something that's still present in the Republic. So, I'm going to talk about a law that, at least as far as children without escorts or minors are concerned, has failed to achieve their goal, which is to protect children by virtue of the Convention on the Rights of the Child. Therefore, there were very clear objections and female attorneys and advocates for children who gave you exactly what articles were and how much non-inflammation in the essence of the problem led to a serious, possibility of serious violation of children's rights. For example. Art. It is prescribed that a third-country minor and a third-country minor accompanied by members of his family can be placed in the centre only if forced distance is not possible in another way and at the shortest necessary time in the centre. Therefore, such deprivement of the freedom of children without escort and children with families should be legally prohibited and it should be ensured that it is abolished in practice, and that, since such vulnerable groups need to ensure alternative accommodation of the open type, and the reason for the family’s dementia with children should not be the absence of open centres. Thus, such accommodation is a depravation of freedom or detente. The Committee for the Protection of the Rights of All Migrant Workers and members of their families and members of the UN Children's Rights Committee on the Human Rights of Children in the context of international migration in the countries of origin, transit, destination and return which states in the Department of Freedom that children should never be detained for reasons related to their migration status or to the migration status of their parents, given that any deprivement of freedom may result in the physical and mental health of children and their development, and that countries must make solutions for the achievement of the best interests of children who are allowed to remain with their families or guardians at a place that is not a childhood but rather a community accommodation until their migrant status is resolved prior to their return. Accommodation of unaccompanied children is necessary in the establishment of social care, and it is necessary to apply the rules of accommodation of children separated from adults, separated from adults. Accommodation of unaccompanied children in the centre involves the stay of children in such institutions together with adults, which means the exposure of the child without escort to a number of risks warned by the Lanzaroth Committee in a special report on the protection of children affected by the refugee crisis against sexual exploitation and sexual abuse. Furthermore, by order of the Art. A return decision shall be prescribed in 186. The jurisdiction and procedure in which the return of the child without an escort was decided should have been made more clear in this law of yours in order to make it a special test procedure to take the statement of the child, his guardian and to consider the opinion of the welfare centre, and to carry out other necessary actions, in order to determine the best interests of the child in each particular case. This would ensure child protection in accordance with the provisions of the Article. Ten. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. So that child must return safely. It is important to ensure that decisions on the legal status of unaccompanied minors are always based on an individual assessment of their best interests. The assessment should take into account, systematically, whether the return of unaccompanied minors to the country of origin and the merger with his family in his best interest and ensuring that the assessment of the child's best interests is systematically carried out by competent authorities on the basis of multidisciplinary access, that the unaccompanied minor is heard and that the guardian who has been designated is appropriately involved. By order further, by order of the Article. 193 the adoption of an exorcism solution for minors is prescribed, however, a special test procedure has been omitted when deciding to banish a child, as well as the person taking care of a child, and all to establish the best interests of the child through such a procedure. It is therefore necessary to include the conduct of a special test procedure, which, when deciding on the exclusion of the child and the care provider. Furthermore, by order of the Art. In 198 you prescribe the scope and conditions of using free legal aid. Remember, children are a particularly vulnerable category. Therefore, in order to protect the human rights of children, and especially when the proceedings are conducted in relation to children or to those who care about children, legal assistance is necessary to ensure a first-degree procedure, not only in the administrative dispute. And finally, a certain article. In 155 it is prescribed that a solution to the suspension of a long-term residence is not allowed to appeal but can be initiated by a administrative dispute. Unacceptable. I think it was necessary to provide for an exception to this provision in relation to the children. Children require special protection and public authorities are obliged to act in accordance with their best interest. Since the enforcement of the decision to abolish the long-term residence may directly affect the realization of the child’s best interest, I believe that an exception is necessary in relation to them and that it should allow children the right to appeal which delays the execution of that decision. So a whole series of very clear remarks you've had. Of both attorneys who are perfectly clear and who should have been included in this law, regardless of what you said, you are primarily solving the lack of labour after we have 300 thousand people left this country, but when you are already entering, you are changing articles that concern children, please, until the second reading that you sit down and see how this law will make humane, a law that will make everything possible for children without escorts and children who find themselves in these disputes, has a particular point of view, about gaining the citizenship of our children, too, has the same controversial situations, so it will all be in the best interests of the child because it is the only obligation that we have at this point. Fight for our children, fight for children who need our protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186611	Thank you. We're moving on to individual debates. Dear colleague Sasa Djujic is not present. Dear colleague Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186612	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. On several occasions when the amendments and additions to this law were discussed, we strongly stated that the concept of a closed society promoted by the current Foreign Law was simply not sustainable. He's discriminatory, he's not only chauvinistic but also, he had very, very powerful elements of xenophobia. We're not the only ones here. There are other European countries that have covered themselves with a bucket over their heads, thinking that the world around them can change, but they won't. When we talked about it, we anticipated the changes that occurred, not only in the labour market but also in the demographic picture of the Republic of Croatia. Croatia, I would say, is more than 150 years of broadcasting, an broadcasting society that sends its citizens, its citizens to emigration or to the world, but we must be aware that Croatia has been very strong for 300 years, overall watching, the area of migration and that almost every other citizen of the Republic of Croatia has been from families that have moved here in the last 200 years. So, since this is the case and is actually modern Croatia, a political nation is made up of settlers, why close in the 21st century and not see these terrible problems that we have in the demographic desolation of almost half our territory. So, those who wrote and this law, in my court, should first spend a month in some of the Slavonian, Banian, or prominent villages where life once flourished, in which agriculture once flourished. I will mention only that, for example, the largest agricultural and industrial complex in Bania had its own time, only in the area of Sisak-Moslavina County 6 thousand cooperatives, a total of 9,000. Six thousand families, in Bania, lived on agriculture, specifically cattle farming with a strong backdrop in the industry. That industry is gone. Those ends are completely white. And we act like we're overcrowded and we're bothered by those who, imagine wonders that even such ones, want to come live with us. And here's the proposal for a new law that we understand doesn't matter, much different than before, it brings liberalisation in some details and we welcome it, but again we notice some discriminatory elements that we don't know why they're standing here. Let's say under the auspices of the Croatians, as it says here, members of the Croatian people, it is one flossule that can endure much, much more because belonging to a people in ethnic terms is a personal matter for every citizen and everyone has the right to plead in an ethnic sense however they like. And good, I think it's good that there are still a few million people in the world who will say that ethnic Croats are despite being citizens of other countries because there is obviously some kind of pride in that ethnic origin. But we're giving them an absolute advantage here that doesn't make any sense compared to the other categories that we've restricted here. For example. One's great-grandfather was born in Brač, and his grandfather and father were born in Chile and he was born in Chile, so the third generation is born abroad, but enough to say that he is a member of the Croatian people and has absolute priority on this, that he can, without any administrative conditions, actually settle permanently. And someone who was born in the Republic of Croatia who did not gain citizenship because his administration did not permit it does not have the right. Why don't we put in a provision here in this law that recognizes that relaxation to all those born in the Republic of Croatia or whose one or both parents were born in the Republic of Croatia. I know about the case of a man whose parents were born in Croatia, the acquisition of war circumstances he was born abroad, one parent lost in the war, another parent lives on abroad, he wants to live in Croatia, and he can't. I know about the case of two brothers born in Croatia, whose father was killed during the Homeland War and whose mother took her children abroad to their relatives because it was easier to live there, but only because the Serbs could never get Croatian citizenship regardless of their difficult fate, and they wanted to live in Croatia where they were born and where they even went to school. I don't see why we should raise these walls and obstacles to people who want to live in the Republic of Croatia, that's the first and most basic criterion. Of course, there should be criteria to prevent human trafficking, to transfer crime across borders, to launder money or something like that, but if someone wants to live with us, let's make it possible for them under circumstances where we fall rapidly towards 3 million. All demographic assumptions suggest that the Republic of Croatia will have less than 3 million inhabitants in 20 years. Who will live, who will work, who will feed the generation that now stands? Who's going to maintain the state's own drive? So we don't think the state is going to fail and die, die, not have to finance it, do we? I believe that there will be benefits to those who live here. But may that love, may the desire to live here be a key criterion in such circumstances as we now live in. Another thing would be that we're overcrowded and we've exhausted all the resources we have. As for this relaxation towards foreign labour, several times last year we asked the government to lift the quotas, thank God it's happening, but why are you delaying the liberalisation of the conditions? We will die what little is alive from those who need it. You know that the entire sectors are currently crying for regular power and passing the train. Last summer, information has been released that the Federal Republic of Germany needs 50,000 drivers of a truck with an estimate that within four years, the figure will rise to 150,000. Who do you think will drive trucks in Croatia? Niko, they're gonna go there. If they need 50,000 right now, then you can think about what's in the other sectors. They'll be happy to suck up our labour force. Let's not wait a year. Why do we go to that application only in 2021, cut it out maximum, release from 1.6. this law into operation, return as soon as possible to another reading and allow the law to enter into force as soon as possible. And don't go to complicated sublaws, don't make life worse for entrepreneurs, but let's all be happy that I can find someone who will work. Let's cut them some slack and let them create a new value, because out of this new value come our wages, if you didn't know, if they don't, we won't have what they are, and then we'll probably be more nervous as hungry, so we'll be making even worse laws than the ones that are proposed to us. Think about it, it will not cost you much, and you will learn a great service to Croatia and to those who work in it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186613	Thank you. We have replicas, dear colleague Bozo Ljubic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186614	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The Honorable Representatives of Richembergh. The very fact that in 2018 there were 43,000 third-country nationals who had a valid stay in Croatia and that the number was in '19. increased to 62,000 means more than 30% says that foreign people are welcome in Croatia and that Croatia is, I say, attractive to them. So why should we give up our countrymen in a world of 3 million of whom only one small part has Croatian citizenship? But we have examples of countries like Spain that, whether they had citizenship or not, which is called Ramos, Gonzales, Fernandez automatically receives Spanish citizenship, so respecting the fact that great contributions to our sport have been given to our culture by our descendants of our 3rd and 4th generations, I do not see any reason as a reserve to this part of the Croatian National Corps.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186615	Thank you. A colleague of Richembergh's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186616	Dear dear, you've got me all wrong. I have absolutely no reservation to it, but I suggest we open this kind of relaxation to all who were born in the Republic of Croatia or whose parents were born in the Republic of Croatia, so we don't create any more categories. And as for this relationship, so there were 73,000 foreigners in Croatia last year, so that's if you ask me a shame. You know, there's 250,000 foreigners living in Prague, and in all of Croatia, 73, and we're a country where there's a lot of work to be done, so we're not God knows what they've adventured. A country of this capacity and this kind of needs right now needs 200,000 foreigners throughout the whole range of sectors, not just craftsmen, not only in tourism but in a whole series of others. Ask the mata roman from how many countries people work with him, so you'll see what the formula of success is.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186617	Thank you. Next replica, dear colleague Zeljko Raguž.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186618	You spoke about discrimination under this law, and it is not because of the fact that the professorship of the adoption of the Law on Croatian Citizenship when amendments to the initiative of the Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia were adopted, but that there is no discrimination on the contrary that Croats outside the Republic of Croatia support and the need for relations with non-Croatian citizens, as you yourself have indicated whose parent is a citizen of the Republic of Croatia. So, there is no basis for your claim because it has just been implemented in the Law on Croatian Citizenship. And the status of Croats without Croatian citizenship is defined for the first time in the Law on Relations with Croats outside the Republic of Croatia and it is only more precisely defined in this Foreign Law.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186619	Thank you. A colleague of Richembergh's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186620	A fellow Raguž that is good, but be careful all this happened in 2018, 2019, so after many years of exhaustion in some models that were very, very closed, I would say xenophobic. However, the practice of the past shows independently that we have relaxed the Law on Croatian Citizenship, that there is still discretionary right of rejection in cases I mentioned, and without real reasoning, and then it can only be read what is behind it. That's not good. You know that wherever there's discretionary rights there's a possibility and abuse, I wouldn't like it. I would much prefer to say that, on the trail of what you say, more people from the Croatian diaspora come to live in Croatia. These are people who live in democratic systems and would certainly bring in one democratic culture, but we no longer have the strength to exhaust BiH, we have been exhausting it for several hundred years, it will probably continue, but not in some god knows what numbers, there is more space for that kind of demographic fill-up and there is no.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186621	I thank my colleague Richembergh. Next debate, dear colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186622	Thank you very much. By evicting from the Republic of Croatia, mostly in recent years but we have to go back and a few dozen years back or over the centuries and last century people have moved out of these areas, but apparently lately the working potential has gone to third countries, the bad policies that have been conducted towards the people who have tried to live and work in this area have gone away. Here's what the secretary said at the beginning, 2016 started with several thousand foreign workers, several thousand who came to Croatia, and now it's moving quickly and by 100,000, which means that so far the Republic of Croatia is these laws. It was mainly increased last year, i.e. Here I said earlier in the replica that in 2019, only 11,000 workers, citizens of Serbia, came from Serbia last year, and 22,000 citizens from BiH to half of the 8th month, so Croatia is now with this liberalisation. Now that we have evicted people from Croatia to third countries as one huge potential which has been, unfortunately again I repeat to the bad policies and the failure of the system that has demeaned all these people and, of course, the formation of the Republic of Croatia is visible to form the Republic of Croatia i.e.. Regionally looking at the counties, we will see that she made a statement by Andrej Plenkovic on the night that Kolinda Grabar Kitarovic lost that in essence and he himself admitted what he had all along denied that they had not received enough votes in the counties where they were winning neatly and that the reason people had moved out. So what do we have now? We have this law full liberalisation. literally liberalising the opening without any restrictions and criteria that all can come to work in the Republic of Croatia. I would be the happiest if all those who went to the Republic of Croatia to third countries would be able to get back from the highest-quality doctors, professors of all those people who went builder, tokar, welders of those who were in shipbuilding to return them. The fact is that there is enormous potential, here is the mention of Mate Rimac, who, by the way, came from my neighbouring municipality in Livna from BiH, showed that in these areas there are quality people who can develop, he is, of course, a man who is in business and who has developed a big job, but it is visible that in the BiH area where there was huge potential, where the Croatian population lived and the Dalmatian Zagora that was the source of potential. So we're talking about Zaladje Obalje with Hercegovina and, of course, the part where the Croats live in BiH that was the huge potential for the settlement of these areas for many years, i.e. For decades and centuries. However, bad policies, according to these parts, have led to the decline of the population. However, when we talk about importing labour, we should always look at the cause. The cause of what we've been brought into this situation. We have been brought into a policy situation in the 1960s, where people are targetedly sent to third countries to send money over the lines, and I repeat it from day to day, and I will repeat it again. 6.18 billion kuna a year, coming from our citizens that we have evicted, which we see, means in the data that are in the CNB. That's been hiding for a long time. Even I spoke to the prime minister here when he was budgeting he told me that they were ticks, that it was, and the minister who didn't want to say the exact number, he spoke about 7 billion kuna somewhere. But 18 billion kuna means it's from our people who are emigrated by bad policies and now we have a boomerang coming back to us. The worst possible policy is an eviction policy, targeted, planned. I don't see how many people can leave Croatia at once unless it's targeted and planned. So what now? Our farmers work both in Ireland or in some other countries, while our fields lie without irrigation, and we have this resource, we have fields, we have clean water, we have a drink that could irrigate, which could also create additional value in these fields, but there are no people. There are no people, there are colleagues from Herzegovina, the president of the Croats from BiH, from that area. No people, no people. In my Zagora, there is no, empty, relationship to our good, to the potential, according to what we have, here, we will only list fields, agricultural land, we do not have irrigation systems where rivers pass, I always mention my Sinjsko polje, but so in other fields, so in the Imot region, so it is in Slavonia, so it is everywhere. And of course they're the cause of bad politics. So what now? Now we've got the tribune of everything. We used to boast about shipbuilding, today our strongest people in shipbuilding went to 3rd countries and products of ships, from engineers, from welders to designer engineers. Now we will have to, we have had quality, companies that have worked in construction, large projects, projects complicated, and now we will have to import, from builders, not free builders in these, Masons, but from people who deal with, builders, carpenters and those, and we will have to import into the state's attorneys, to the Parliament, to the government, and these, these, these, the Free builders, the Masons, you need to strengthen the system so that they do not work in the interests of Croatia and that they emigrate Croatia, they are important to themselves as a group. These are people of reputation, of, I don't know if the secretary may be in some secret organization of these Free builders of Gabrits, as they call them, these big locals, these big locals who do the DORH, I mean, then we know where we are. But it's on the side. But the fact that at this point we don't have that potential of people to bring them back, our people, and the great potential of our diaspora. The diaspora is a huge potential, of all, from Germany to Australia, these people have created some capital in these areas, and that capital should do anything to get those people back with that capital here, it's capital huge. But we need a state to get those people back. Let these people come back, so they have to give 10% to this file, 10% to that one. So these people should try to attract, especially those who have left lately, to come back. Well, whether it was the 2nd, 3rd or 4th generation of Croats, whether it's from Chile to Australia, North America, it's not general, Canada, it doesn't matter what part of the world. But these are the people who have succeeded in these environments, they have created huge capital in the world, and I think that would be a huge potential for these people to return. This is how we liberalized foreign labour, I said, here I know, we are often declared Croats, in Croatia there are intolerances towards minorities, according to this, that, but the fact is that in 2019 until mid-8th month. Eleven thousand workers were from Serbia, a Serbian citizen. 22,000 from BiH, mostly from Republika Srpska or, so no, we have the means, we have a huge problem to solve. But it is not a solution to what is now done without demographic measures, without investment, keeping our strategic interests, we cannot protect our fisherman, declaring an exclusive economic belt, that our fisherman remains in this area. We do not have to protect as the Hungarians have said, there is no sale of agricultural land to foreign legal and physical persons. We can't protect it. We can't protect our waters, we don't have the strength to put it in the Constitution to be a constitution, drinking water, and we give concessions to foreigners. They have a huge profit, and in the end this 700 thousand acres of farmland will be bought by foreigners. And then maybe they'll eventually be our kids on our grandfather's when they buy it as their workforce cheap. So we are simply strategically making absolutely no decisions, but the only thing we have here is the praise of economic growth with a bad policy, and the bad policy is when we have 3% of the GDP of our people who have moved out of the line, 18 billion kuna. And based on that consumption, that money they send to their families, we have growth. It's not good, it's a catastrophic policy, and it's obvious that we now have to liberalise the maximum imports of foreign labour, in order to fill or whether entrepreneurs can function at all, that there is someone working. And we've moved our people out. So, absolutely bad policy is a reflection of all these laws so far. So a catastrophic policy in the Republic of Croatia, which is why we have 2/3 of Croatia's empty, carefree, nelados, negativity, the only thing we have, is one systematic functioning of the county, which is essentially just being arrested so that they can vote for their parties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186623	Thank you. We have replicas, an esteemed colleague of Ines Strenja, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186624	Thank you. I'm going to be about something concrete right now, which is that, we know what a lack of driver is, we know what a problem private car carriers are, but they've made a lot of objections to this law about checking documents on buses, and they say that the driver's staff has no public authority or can require passengers to present personal documents and travel documents when they get on the bus, and they don't need passengers to show it to them, but by the law that you prescribed the control of travel documents by private employees, and not public servants can be in the same range and intensity as with border controls. Therefore, no train staff has been trained or can verify the credibility and validity of travel documents. Any possible liability of the carrier may be maintained only if it is demonstrated that, in the course of its activity, it deliberately helps third-country nationals to illegally enter the territory of the State. How do you think this law applies to drivers? I don't think this is right.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186625	Thank you. Hey, buddy Bull's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186626	Probably because of the panic, i.e. not because the market is missing and the driver is missing, and now the law is being passed as quickly as possible in this panic, but it is not talking about the cause. The cause is bad policy, not only about the driver but the overall drivers will be needed, someone has to drive trucks, someone will have to work there, but what we have is going to go out. And now, let's liberalize the maximum import of foreigners without any criteria. So far, I'll tell you again, so when this government came in 2016 there were several thousand foreign workers, now we've reached 100,000, 100,000 in a year, that's the increase of several hundred times the workers we import from the country and that says everything, that bad politics has led to chaos on the market, and the Croats have moved out.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186627	Thank you. Next replica, respected colleague Slaven Dobrović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186628	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Bull. Croatia has a minus born of more than 16,000 a year, and of course there is an exodus of these working people who go with families to look elsewhere for happiness and roof over their heads. We usually have a ministry specifically designed for this demographic problem and there is a name of the Ministry of Demography, Youth, Whatever, Family etc. do you think that something of quality has been done in this ministry and that there is even a strategy that it is being implemented that this problem today would be minor or not? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186629	Thank you. Hey, buddy Bull's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186630	I don't see any measure, the basic measure of demographic residue in areas mainly where they move to work, so that the young family can form an important job. That's what yours was talking about, to confirm I would only quote Mr. Strmot who was a secretary at the government's ministry, who said publicly at a press conference as a key man of the ministry that this was a play and theater of measures given by this government on demographic measures. I absolutely support it there and there are all demographers who supported it because simply if we bring laws to praise everyone's law on hill-mounted undeveloped areas, and we don't have measures that will ensure easier job opening for entrepreneurs to survive these people in these areas, then it's a mockery. We've passed a law on undeveloped areas and mountain-mounted mountain-mounted areas, and today there are two years still ex-ministers, we have absolutely no measures yet, we have no regulations and financial framework as...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186631	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed colleague of Anka Dark Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186632	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. In your debate, you also touched the exudus that started in the 1960s when a lot of our citizens went to work in other countries, but that's different from what's happening today. So that's when the individuals went to work and go back to the families stayed there, now the whole family's going. Construction is otherwise a driver of development, so there in the 1960s the main thing went and worked in construction, today some other people come to work in construction. So these are some processes that are not good because, of course, we are losing quality labour, and there are also these free builders that we mention all day long. They were formed there at the end of the 14th century, formed from masonry, klesar, construction work that wanted to regulate their relationship with authorities and customers. So there's no difference and then and now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186633	Thank you. Hey, buddy Bull's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186634	A good parallel, so then people in the 1960s in the former state of Yugoslavia were leaving, but mostly people were leaving men from the family, other members would stay and wife and children in this way that money comes here and into the family. But now, unfortunately, even worse monster is happening, now the whole family is leaving with children and these areas, mainly areas where I come from, and most of the other areas, and also Herzegovina and this part and Slavonia, we are mostly talking about these areas of people going out, but they would come back. But now there's a great danger is there's no urgent response that people stay and the whole family basically out there and don't come back and remain empty hearths or whatever. empty spaces. And a nation without a people only with space is absolutely not a state. We have to do everything we can to get people back, to come back, but we obviously don't have a measure. Now we have to here we are forced to liberalize the law to import foreigners, and it is questionable what quality is and who will enter everything, with our quality workforce... deliberate and targeted... [[The speaker is not understood because of the announcement.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186635	Thank you. We move on to the next debate, dear colleague Zeljko Raguž. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186636	President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and fellow MPs, state secretaries with associates, from the position of representatives of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, seems to me to be the most important item 5. Article 1 of this law, which defines the status of Croats without Croatian citizenship, or finds that persons who have established Croatian status without Croatian citizenship are not foreigners under this law. Why does it matter? Well, it is important for the reason that in this way legislation in the Republic of Croatia has simply led to good examples of other European countries making a clear distinction between therefore born Croat and another foreigner who is found with, in the Republic of Croatia with a request for entry, stay, employment, education. Such practice has long existed in Germany, Italy, in neighbouring Slovenia. The law in neighbouring Slovenia clearly distinguishes Slovenian, born Slovenian without Slovenian citizenship from other Slovenians and even those born outside the Republic of Slovenia. In the Committee on Croatians outside the Croatian Parliament, on the basis of a number of requirements from earlier years, this issue and the basis of the Law on Relations of the Republic of Croatia with non-Croatian Croats, which was adopted in 2011 raised this issue that took years to resolve and that amendments to the earlier text of the law in 2017, 2018 to the amendments of the Committee on Croats outside the Republic of Croatia were precisely defined by that precise definition because of the fact that many living situations were to be identified. Until the law mentioned, until the founding of the Central State Office for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, there was no State institution or law governing the issues of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia in an appropriate manner as defined in the practice of other European countries. And we can now commend these steps made under the engagement of the last government, the current government which has also shown sensitivity to one important issue of integration, the coordination of Croats in the Republic of Croatia and Croats outside the Republic of Croatia and its citizens outside the Republic of Croatia. This example was later applied when the procedure was amended by the Law on Croatian Citizenship. Following this practice and all the problems observed during the procedure of the Foreign Law, a solution has also been made in the Law on Croatian Citizenship that allows Croats outside the Republic of Croatia to come to Croatian citizenship in a more liberal way, more appropriate deadlines have been left and a positive invitation has been made to Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, those who wish to become Croatian citizens in a simpler way. What was important to stress was that it was taken into account that no discrimination was being made against other citizens of the Republic of Croatia, therefore members of the national minorities, and just such initiatives went from the Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia, and it is important to highlight when we went with the amendment to the Law on Foreigners in 2017 and '18, that representatives of all parties in the Croatian Parliament had no ideological differences, which is particularly important to highlight as a positive example, unanimously voted in favour of the amendment. This says that, however, in Croatian society, a consensus is reached on important issues if resistance exists, if there is a good will to come to a good solution. What should be pointed out, which is related to contemporary processes in the EU, so migration, employment opportunities, the possibility of choosing new jobs in other countries, that in the last few years, the Republic of Croatia has had problems in the last few years of annual quotas that have been moving around 3,000 permits to stay and work in the Republic of Croatia and the process of opening up to the Republic of Croatia's entry into the EU and employment opportunities in European countries, and that they have had problems with certain activities, ensuring employees with certain activities in the Republic of Croatia, and I think that these changes proposed in this law are good, that they are realistic, that the deadlines are appropriate and that they will allow the Republic of Croatia to react in one more appropriate way to create conditions that will allow the Croatian labour market, whether from neighbouring countries, whether from other European countries. Data can be cared for in a certain way, but unfortunately that's reality. We can be informed that many Germans live in both the United States and Australia, and we don't need to look at everything with black eyes, even though it would be a good idea for some of the phenomena to be gone. I think opening the labour market in the Republic of Croatia when it comes to neighbouring countries should not be a problem. I also point out that as mentioned today, 2018 was. 32,000 permits to stay and work, and already 2019. 73,000, of which 2019. 31000 for the citizens of BiH, a 2018. 17000 says there is a fluctuation, hence the labour force, especially from the border parts of BiH and the Republic of Croatia, especially when it comes to seasons in the Republic of Croatia in its Adriatic part. But it is simple and something that is the tradition of these spaces, the premises of BiH and the Republic of Croatia have been, in a certain way, independent of political systems and political units integrated and they will remain as such. It is good that because of the facts and problems of economic and political in BiH, BiH citizens who can get employment in the Republic of Croatia to get it right in the Republic of Croatia, not in some further and distant European countries. I appreciate the fact that the current Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Law on Foreigners, the Law on Croatian Citizenship, the development of the strategy and the Law on Relations of the Republic of Croatia with Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, as well as informing Croats outside the Republic of Croatia about what we could hear and talk about a few days ago when it was on the agenda Report on HRT's work, developed the issue of informing Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, all of which contributes to the integration of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia who can, therefore, in the social, political and economic life of the Republic of Croatia and that is good for the Croatians, good for the Croats outside of Croatia who want to return to the Republic of Croatia, but also good for showing the example of the Law on Croatian citizenship and for the citizens who have any link with the Republic of Croatia, and they are members of national minorities who live in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. Finally, I think it is a good text that will allow the Croatian labour market to gain the necessary workforce and create a healthy competition on the labour market in the Republic of Croatia, which will affect stronger economic development of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186637	Thank you. Replica dear colleague Bozo Ljubic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186638	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, my colleagues and my fellow MPs. My colleague Raguž, I hope we agree that the Republic of Croatia is in the last 30 years. It met almost all strategic goals that were then outlined and, of course, before the Republic of Croatia is now the main strategic goal of democratic, demographic revitalisation. That's why I refer to the article. Article 5(5), i.e. Article 5. 1st, therefore, the Law on Foreigners which you have just quoted, and in the context of defining the status of members of Croatian people without citizenship, so that I can be immodest and on the proposal of the Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia that we both belong to, therefore, extend the definition, hence the Croatian emigrants and thus create the conditions for these strategic objectives to be realised and, therefore, one consensus that we are trying to create in, in the politics and society of the Republic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186639	Thank you. My colleague Raguž's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186640	The amendments to the Law on Croatian Citizenship have just been mentioned, and in the context of experiences with the Law on Foreigners there have been provisions that specifically highlighted the link between the Republic of Croatia and the former areas in which Croats live today in the status of a national minority or an equal constitutional people as the situation in BiH. So, the former premises of Boka Kotorska in present-day Montenegro that were once part of political units together with the Republic of Croatia or parts of the Bačka in present-day Vojvodina, in Serbia, were in a certain way one positive message to Croats outside the Republic of Croatia to think about them, and that is what other countries do, it was only for us to encourage that fact and that it gets its legal foothold.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186641	Thank you. We move on to the next debate, dear colleague Bozo Ljubic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186642	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, my colleagues and fellow MPs, the esteemed secretary of state with his associates. So today, in my debate on behalf of the club, so I was talking about this law, I would say from one technical point of view, but this time I intend to talk from one another, so perspective, and in the process, so from the perspective of Croatian representatives outside the Republic of Croatia, I would say, notice that I might be repeating some of the things that I was saying this morning. Therefore, since this law mainly concerns harmonisation with directives, recommendations, decisions and resolutions of the European Parliament or by adopting the European acquis, there are not too many newspapers that would concern other matters. However, here I want to re-absorbed Art. 5. 1. the existing law, which has been spoken of by my colleague Raguž earlier and which I have also replicated, because I find it extremely important because including this amendment in 2017 and '18 respectively. in the Law on Foreigners and now operating on that article in a way, that item in some way with existing amendments and additions to the Law on Foreigners has taken a significant step, so this Government, hopefully this Assembly, therefore making a significant step in the liberalisation and involvement of members of the Croatian people outside the Republic of Croatia in... political and economic life of the Republic of Croatia. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] On the other hand, as I said earlier in my replica, it is a fact that the Croatian diaspora, which according to the relevant assessments of the competent institutions, makes about 3 million of our compatriots outside the Republic of Croatia, which is, I would say, another non-dominant Croatia, has certainly not been adequately valorised so far, not to say, even though it is a relatively ugly word, but the Republic may have multiple benefits from the extra-dominal Croatia in several aspects. Both in terms of expertise and in terms of capital that our compatriots possess, in terms of demographic renewal, all these things should actually be integrated into Croatian legislation and as we can see, they are integrated both in the Law on Foreigners and in the Law on Croatian Citizenship that we recently adopted, which represented a significant liberalisation of the acquisition of Croatian citizenship and thus did Croatian diaspora as I said in the social, political and economic life of the Republic of Croatia. So I would remind myself again here of some of the key provisions of this law that we have recently adopted and concerning the inclusion of the Croatian diaspora in Croatian, economic and would say political life, so it is possible for Croatian citizens in emigration or descendants of Croatian citizens who have not enrolled their parents in Croatian citizenship until they are 21 years old, and those who are now more than 21 years old are also left with 2 years of time to do so after the entry into force of this law. Furthermore, it is no longer conditional on business ability or other conditions of acquisition of Croatian citizenship because many of our compatriots, especially those of the third age, could not actually become Croatian citizens. Generational restrictions that have existed so far are also left out, thus allowing more of our descendants to apply and receive Croatian citizenship, etc. There is no longer a demand for knowledge of Latin letters, Croatian languages because only when these people get Croatian citizenship are they are even more motivated to learn Croatian language and history, etc. and the definition of Croatian emigrants spoken of by his colleague Raguž is a special thing that was adopted here and would say at the initiative of the Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia which has significantly expanded the definition of Croatian emigrants to all those who have evicted from the territory of the countries where our Republic of Croatia used to be. This law also mentions one important thing that concerns members of the family of Croatian citizens, which this Law on Foreigners has now resolved in one way that has not been resolved so far, and we have received very often requests, suggestions and remarks on the committee in such a way that more permanent stay for members of the Croatian citizens' families should not be met by the terms of 5 years of legal stay and should prove the means to maintain or take the examinations from the knowledge of Croatian language and Latin scripts and therefore meet the suggestions made by our citizens who are in the marriage community with persons without Croatian citizenship. Just as they said earlier, a colleague of Raguž talked about it and enabled members of the Croatian people to regulate their status in a much more favourable way than foreigners in accordance with the need of the Central State Office for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. In other things that concern me, I would say more technical questions of this law, which is the abolition of a quota employment system that will allow employers to gain much easier access to deficits, and I also spoke in my debate and in the name of the club, so I would not like to repeat some things about it. However, I would also like to refer here in some way to some debates that could have been heard here and which in some way express concern that this abolition of the quota system could lead to the fact that the unemployed Croatian citizens are in any way suspended by the fact that the possibility of hiring foreigners in the Republic of Croatia is liberalised, that in fact this law has introduced significantly in my opinion I would say the mechanisms that guarantee that our unemployed citizens will not be in any way cut off because in fact, the Employment Service will be obliged to carry out all the research that will enable employers to then submit an adequate request and then the police administration to approve it. Furthermore, certain provisions of this law, which prescribe a deadline of 45 days or 45 days as long as it may be possible for the competent authorities, guarantees our entrepreneurs that the timely application will bring to an appropriate workforce that is not available in the Republic of Croatia, and also further contributes to the exceptions to the implementation of the labour market test, as they have had the opportunity to hear of deficiting occupations such as carpenters, masons, waiters, butchers, etc. The deadline has been reduced to 15 days and in some cases of seasonal work or the situation of harvesting, etc., even for 10 days, so I see little reason for the concern of any employers, any trade unions, any of our fellow citizens who could possibly be in any danger that this would be a fact that liberalising the employment of foreigners would end. On the other hand, of course there is nothing to say about it, the law is in line with European directives and the European acquis, and I certainly support it. So these are the things that I wanted to say personally in this debate and, of course, I personally support the adoption of this law, but I expect that this debate that we have heard today will be a good impasse for the Proposer to possibly and some solutions to advance and then in the second reading, possibly to the amendments come to the best solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186643	Thank you. Replica, dear colleague Željko Raguž. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186644	You have also stated that this law is important for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, and it is precisely indicators of permits issued in 2019 with data that 31,000 citizens of BiH, 14,000 Republika Srpska, 6,000 Northern Macedonia, 8,000 Kosovo and 3,000 Albania speak in a certain way that BiH is both economically and compared to the Republic of Croatia as a particularly interesting geopolitical area and that it is justified to estimate that BiH's European path is a key foreign policy goal of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186645	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186646	Thank you. ... The fact that in a few years we have multiple increases in the number of issued work permits for foreigners in the Republic of Croatia says more things. [[The speaker is not understood because of the announcement.]] Of course, I wish we had the right workforce at home, but we don't. However, this speaks of some positive things about the Republic of Croatia, economic development, rising labour prices and working in the Republic of Croatia is attractive to foreigners. On the other hand, the perceptions of Croatia as a secure state, as a country where there is no xenophobia and where foreigners from our neighbourhood and even countries with which we have not had good relations, where we have had war conflicts in the last 30 years that they decide to come work in the Republic all this says about the positive processes that are happening in the Republic of Croatia. Of course, as far as BiH is concerned, that's what you said in your debate and I completely agree, it is much better for the citizens of BiH, especially the Croats to find their jobs here in Croatia, not to go to third countries... [[The speaker is not understood because of the announcement.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186647	Thank you. Final word on behalf of the promoter, the respected secretary of state, Mr. Zarko Katic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186648	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I want to give some answers here to the arguments made in the debate and explain some of the provisions that perhaps the MPs did not read well. Mrs. Anka Dark Taritash urged the government to refer the law to another reading as soon as possible, the final bill of law and that it enters into force as soon as possible. The competent authorities will do everything possible to get to the second reading as soon as possible after we examine all the comments and suggestions made in the debate, and we will still consult the social partners on the date of entry into force. It is nothing that is written here, the Holy Scriptures, everything needs to be discussed and such a law will be passed that will best suit Croatian citizens and Croatian entrepreneurs. In the case of claims that certain difficulties may arise in the new mode of operation and the role of the HZZ is just in the article. 101st regulation that the Administrative Council is making a decision on interests for which an employer should not seek to carry out a labour market test, and you said it would be good to work every three months. Article 3 of that Article states that, without delay on the basis of the labour market situation, it is necessary to amend its assessment and this decision on interests which do not need to be carried out by the labour market test, i.e. on deficits. So I think we made a good proposal and that the role of HZZ and its board of directors here has been adequately affected. We will see more about the entry into force, but since a decision on the labour permit quota has been made, this proposal provides for the entry into force of 1 January 2021 and for all stakeholders of this system to be better brought into line, but we will consider such an observation. Mrs. Ines Strenja's representative spoke of children without escorts. In the Republic of Croatia comes a number of unaccompanied children, yes, that number is increasing with this migrant crisis and all competent ministries are working to better regulate their status, so if international protection seekers are not staying in shelters with adults, they are staying in facilities where other children are. We are looking for and I believe that in the near future we will have special shelters for children without escorts who come to the Republic of Croatia to separate them from children of Croatian citizens where they are now mostly located. They can, like any other searcher of international protection, be located in other facilities, can also be located in families in apartments, we have such cases. However, this law, what he could do for such persons, is explicitly cited by children without an escort in Article. In the 79nd century, 2nd century, they were able to approve a temporary stay for humanitarian reasons, with victims of human trafficking and of other categories that were numbered in that article, and that is what happens and we have such cases. You have also pointed out that some Croatian employers, in particular, mentioned the hosts, are looking for work force in a sense, so there is a need for labour she is therefore documented by this government decision on the labour permit quota. Needs are getting bigger. I would remind you that in 2016 85 work permits for catering and tourism were provided in the quota for that year. So now it takes one, one hotel or tourist facility of average size, so the company. Last year, we were issued 21,200 work permits for tourism, which for seasonal work, and in this year 2020, the government envisaged 30,370 work permits, so both seasonal and year-round. As for the observation of Goran Beus Richembergh who said that this law promoted the concept of closed society, which is not sustainable, that he promoted xenophobia, I would say that it is an incredibly unbearable ease of labelling, here I paraphrase and steal from the scientific cult novel Milan Kundera, so I apologize to him, therefore, the unbearable ease of labelling that comes often from the left spectrum of this assembly, but also from the left spectrum of Croatian political society, where everything where individuals measured everything and only what they think and their claims are true and true. So a man would have to say something like that and get better information. I will only say that despite these quotas and work permits and residences approved during the term of office of this Government, I will subscribe data to the mandate of the government of which Mr. Richembergh and his party participated. In 2012, a total of 3,988 licences were granted, but 3,000 were granted for extension, and only 988 for new employment. In 2013, quotas were approved or envisaged, I apologize, 2,329 licences, but 2,000 for extension, and 329 for new employment. In 2014, 2.256 work permits, 2,000 for extensions, and 239 for new employment plus 17 for seasonal. 2015 1.730 of which 1,500 for the extension of already issued 230 letters and 230 work permits for new employment, in order to grow that figure to 3.115 in 2016, but of which 2,300 for new employment, therefore a large majority, and in '17. 9,000, in '18. 37,000 and we heard the data for last year and last year. Mr. Richembergh said that Germany is looking for 50,000 drivers and Croatia is looking for 3,000 drivers, if we compare it to the number of Croatian and German residents, it turns out that Croatia is looking for more drivers if we are looking relatively. He said there should be at least 200,000 workers or people in the Republic of Croatia. This year's work permit quota provides for 123,000 people to arrive. Of course, if Croatian employers need them, but also in this law we have a provision in Article 57(6) where the Government of the Republic of Croatia can, if the bodies responsible for the economy, work, demography, etc., propose to make a decision under certain criteria, that additional residents come to the Republic of Croatia. So I'd say we first open the possibility of moving into the Republic of Croatia on other grounds. If it's going to be something like a green card or someone else's shape, it remains to be seen. We invite you all to give your pain and to see how the Republic of Croatia will best respond to the lack of labour, but also to the lack of the population you have spoken of that is evident in our country. Mr. Richembergh mentioned and wondered why some people could not get Croatian citizenship or come to the Republic of Croatia. So last year, 73,060 people came to the Republic of Croatia as working plus several thousand on other legal grounds that we did not specifically represent here, family integration, study, etc. The next number will be, as we can see, possible to be greater. However, many do not want to come to Croatia to live and work and share fate with us but only want to travel, work, or maybe deal with crime in another country. That's what we have to take care of and protect our country and our citizens. I will repeat only at the end in response to the words of Commissioner Beus Richembergh, which I first said, last year we issued work permits to the citizens of 95 countries, from all continents. If I didn't read the list now because there are countries that some people may not have even heard of, really small countries that they probably wouldn't expect to come work in Croatia, from Oceania, Africa, Asia, etc. In contrast, let's say that, say, Representative Bulj says that this law maximumly liberalises the import of foreigners without any criteria. So liberalizing it is true, but the criteria exist, they exist in this current law, there will be, there is also in this new law. There are checks concerning convictions and penalties, there are security checks carried out by an authorised agency and for which the MUP is responsible and for which it issues residence and work permits despite the practices of some other countries where other bodies do so. Here, for, in the replica of which Mr. Dobrović appeared, was mentioned that, therefore, the problem of the lack of population, 16000 if I understood more of the dead than the born, my answer is, therefore, that this article. The 57th century 6th should be looked at and perhaps later the Government and elaborated, perhaps in the final draft of the law, give perhaps another better formulation and, and, better quality possibility to regulate with a regulation or a government's decision to encourage ourselves once and to say that we, too, call to the Republic of Croatia a number of people according to certain criteria, their knowledge, their work knowledge, language knowledge, family, perhaps with younger families to come, to try out in the Republic and to try to live and work in it. Yesterday on one show, I saw a Turkish citizen on TV who says that the Republic of Turkey is an excellent state for business, so it's amazing that others are great, we don't, and we don't. However, I admit we are, we can still and we need to be better and I invite you all together to the government and HS to work on making living and working conditions in our country as good as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186649	Thank you. Replica, dear colleague of Ines Strenja.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186650	Dear Secretary of State, this last thing you said is a political stance, so of course it won't come to us Americans, Swiss and Swedish, who see something that's better and a place for a better life, but that's why it's us who are guilty, not me personally, but those who have been in power for the last 10 years when 300,000 people have gone away, you're responsible for why this country has become a place where it's not good for our people and they have to look elsewhere. You did not answer my question whether you were able to consider until the second reading that the appeal against, means the solutions to abolishing the long-term stay for children are not allowed to appeal, the administrative procedure must be initiated, whether it is a vulnerable category, and need special protection, is it possible for children to be granted an appeal delaying the execution of a decision without children starting an administrative court, administrative proceedings? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186651	Thank you. Answer, dear colleague Katic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186652	Your Honor, ma'am. We'll talk about everything, I invite you to come to the MUP and talk about it. However, the concept, the transition to a new concept, so that an administrative dispute can be started, and that the appeal is not allowed, is based on the ZUP, we will see if it is possible to apply it to this specific category, so for children for whom we are all sensitive and for whom we will do everything to make them feel good in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186653	Thank you. The next replica, dear colleague Sasa Djujic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186654	Thank you very much, Vice President. Mr. Katic, I answered because you were talking about Mr. Beus Richembergh in your final statement for 10 minutes, and you mentioned that it was his, and you gave that number to how much permission was granted when his party was in power. Look, he's a member of another party today, and his party is in power with you today, and you're sitting in a government where this party is in power, and I don't know what you wanted to say about what you said, that she was doing better or worse, or today when she's working better with you and HDZ, I think you'd like to explain to us a little bit, and this statement that some of you want only a Croatian passport, not because we're experiencing the benefits and disadvantages that we're experiencing here, but possibly because of crime or business or some others, do you know how many Croatian passports and Croatian citizens who don't live in the Republic and don't live with us the blessings and troubles that we experience every day? How many of those people are there? [[/Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186655	State Secretary Katic's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186656	I was responding to Mr. Beus, and as I recall if I was wrong, I apologized, he was in a party that was then in power, where he today I really don't know because I can't follow, and things as you know are very often changing. I think that, of course, Croatian citizenship can be acquired in many ways, two basic ways are origin, so according to their parents, because parenting is then so are you by citizenship and naturalization. For those who acquire naturalisation, our law stipulates that citizenship can also be acquired by persons who do not live in the Republic of Croatia, however, they must meet certain conditions, and that these safety conditions should be taken into account in particular. Once a person gets citizenship or each of us who is a Croatian citizen, he can move freely as he wants. Numbers, we know that around 700,000 Croatian voters do not live in the Republic of Croatia but live abroad, but also a certain number of natural persons who do not have [[/Intruder: Thank you.]] election law. [[/Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186657	Next replica of the esteemed colleague of Anka Dark-Taritash. You can have the microphone, please. Thank you. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186658	Thank you, thank you very much, Vice President HS. Secretary of State Katić, your final presentation was very interesting, and you made it very clear to us, first of all, that you called parliamentary representatives who don't read and understand, you gave one great bill, we discussed because we don't read and understand, then you put us politically and said that they were on the left in the political spectrum a little different from someone else, so you did the whole story, and then you did the comparison that was in the government of Mr Milanović, in which I was minister, which is today with me not knowing where you were in 2011, 2012, when there was a major economic crisis or economic crisis at the level of Europe and the world, and of course the requirement was that the possibility of giving foreigners jobs in the Republic was limited because there was no need, and in 2020 and 2012, it was a big difference at all in need, so it's very interesting for your own. final exposure. [[/Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186659	Thank you. Next replica, dear colleague Tomislav Zhagar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186660	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State, I agree with you, these changes are necessary but that does not automatically mean that they are also good because the impact on the economy we will only see with one step, they are good for entrepreneurs but are they good for the growth of the Croatian economy? It is now another question because competitiveness will not be achieved in this way, we will fill jobs with labour that will come from other countries, our people have gone out, of course why they have gone, because of the higher pay, the better conditions so these people are coming, it is simply about economic migration and you are now in a position to pass a law that is necessary and I support you there but to argue that it will be good, it is simply at this point too ambitious. We will only see what will happen and we must not forget the fact that in early 2019, the employment contribution was abolished and in fact it was seen that the measures that HZZ is doing are not enough and will not be able to meet these challenges and this law directly responds to these challenges.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186661	Thank you, Comrade Sagar, thank you very much. I hereby conclude the debate, thank the Secretary of State, Mr. Žorko Katić and his colleagues for their reasons and for their answers. We'll vote on this point when the conditions are met. Now I'm setting a break until 5:00 and 15 minutes. It's 5:00 P.M.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186662	Proposal for the Foreign Law, first reading, P.Z.E. Number 840. The motion is Government, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. Firstly, the proposal for a Law on Foreigners and Others is adopted, all objections and proposals will be submitted to the Proposer to consider them when establishing the text of the final draft law. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the vote is 79 for, 22 abstentions and 7 against the conclusion proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186663	[[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 17:17 A.M.]] The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Environmental Protection and Nature. The government has delivered its opinion. I would like to ask the representative of the esteemed colleague, Michael Zmajlovic, to give us an additional explanation of the bill. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186664	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, respected representatives of the government. Here is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Sustainable Waste Management Act, which aims to reduce the impact and this negative impact of plastic carrying bags and plastics for single use on the environment, in particular on water, the marine environment, human health and the contribution to the establishment of a circular economy. The most important measure to achieve this objective is the general ban on the placing on the market of plastic bags and certain plastic products with minimal and clear definitions of exceptions relating to very lightweight plastic carrying bags which are biodegradable and manufactured mainly from renewable sources. And this ban should take effect six months after the publication of this law. This law partially transposes the provisions of the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the reduction of the impact of certain plastic products on the environment and the provisions relating to restrictions on the placing on the market of certain plastic products before the time limit laid down in this Directive. It is argued in the explanation that the measures used by the Republic of Croatia so far, which is mandatory to collect plastic bags and increase the fees for waste packaging management, has not sufficiently reduced the use of plastic bags and it is necessary to introduce additional more efficient measures. In the European Strategy for Plastics in the Circular Economy of 16 January 2018, the European Commission concluded, in the context of the Circular Economy Action Plan, that the problem of the constant rise in plastic waste and the release of plastic waste into the environment, especially in the marine environment, must be addressed in order to achieve a circular life cycle of plastics. The European Strategy for Plastics is a step towards establishing a circular economy in which the reuse, repair and recycling needs are fully respected and more sustainable materials are developed and promoted through the design and production of plastics and plastic products. A significant negative impact on the environment and health as well as the negative economic impact of certain plastic products require the establishment of a specific legal framework with a view to effectively reducing these negative effects. Therefore, the Republic of Croatia has so far applied economic measures such as the obligation to charge plastic bags and the increased compensation for waste packaging management, but this has not sufficiently reduced the use of plastic bags. Therefore, it is necessary to introduce additional and more effective measures in order to achieve the reduction objective It is therefore necessary to introduce a general ban on the marketing of plastic bags. The proposal is that the ban has some delayed effect, or 6 months, so that both the economy and certain stakeholders in the economy have time to adapt. Furthermore, in order to ensure the hygiene and safety of food during the sale of fresh food, fruit and vegetables, and to facilitate the sale of non-packed goods, it is necessary to exclude very light plastic bags which are suitable for composting, which are produced at least 50% from renewable sources and which are suitable for home composting. The exemption applies to plastic bags intended for reuse, which meet certain criteria, these are bags produced from other textiles and leather materials and are not subject to prohibition. The concept of reuse of bags refers to the use for the same purpose for which it was originally made and for other plastic disposable products it is appropriate to experience price-accessible alternatives. In order to limit their harmful influence, therefore such plastics for single use on the environment, this law prohibits them from placing on the market. This promotes the use of more sustainable alternatives available and the application of innovative solutions in terms of more sustainable business models, alternatives that involve re-use and replacement of materials. The ban on placing on the market also includes products of oxodegradable plastics because this type of plastic is not properly decomposed and thus contributes to the pollution of the environment by microplastics, cannot be composted and negatively affecting the recycling of conventional plastics and does not bring a proven benefit to the environment. Furthermore, given the high presence of expansional polythyroid waste in the marine environment in the availability of alternatives, it is prohibited to place on the market and the food and drink container and the single-use drinks made of expanded polythierne. This encourages the use of products suitable for multiple use and which are once waste is suitable for re-use and recycling. And Art. 4th and 5th of this proposal explicitly provides for a list of plastic disposable products that are prohibited from being placed on the market, e.g. earsticks, plastic cutlery, plastic plates, straws, drinks glasses, as I just said from the expanded polythierne. This proposal, which was thus drawn up in front of the SDP club, was actually given the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which is at the very least amazing, given that Croatia is the chairman of the EU Council whose top priority is on whose agenda is indeed also in this mandate, so-called ‘EU Council’. the green deal or green deal and where these topics are related and with the reduction of plastic for single use, combating and adapting to climate change, in fact something that is high on the list of priorities but unfortunately the Government of the Republic of Croatia has the opportunity to chair the EU Council, the Government of the Republic of Croatia is missing the opportunity to at least on this example whose implementation is not so complex but is very simple, to show that Croatia is not only declarative but also really willing to participate in a European strategy on the reduction of plastics that ends in the environment, especially as Croatia is actually a country, one of the few EU countries that has the sea, which can also be praised with large quantities of drinking and clean water. Therefore, I find this not an issue where it is necessary and where to go, but it is a topic that we need to agree on as a society, it is a problem that exists in society and this kind of politics and the rejection of such a proposal, which actually leads us to what we have in the past 4 years, which is that in this waste management system, nothing really happens to us, we have only negative connotations, the cause of chaos, the intervention of the Constitutional Court in certain regulations, the sublegal acts in this area, and for this reason, I regret that the Government has given a negative opinion on this proposal, but perhaps in another reading, to another reading and to the debate will change this opinion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186665	I thank my colleague Zmajlović. We have several replicas, dear colleague Sasa Djujic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186666	Thank you very much. Mr. Zmajlović, you mentioned that the EU's priorities are protection of the environment and removal of plastic from everyday use, you also mentioned the green trade and, moreover, I am surprised by the government's position to reject such a good proposal without any excessive explanation. So the explanation is that they have taken some measures whose effects are not measurable now, so it can't be accepted to see what's better, but this proposal is well worked out, it's not repressive that something is breaking here overnight so that people can't be prepared for that part, but it's very well done there and now if we know when the EU has announced a ban on the use of plastics, that the company that announced and has started to produce earsticks from non-plastic materials from Croatia, and instead of being the first in Europe in something, we will now refuse to do so and then we will wait for the EU to order us to come to these solutions in 5 or 10 years' time, and this is incomprehensible to me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186667	Thank you. Answer, Comrade Zmajlović, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186668	Thank you very much. Well, fellow Djujic, you are absolutely right, but you have not pointed out another important fact, so it is not just, there is no company that produces an alternative for plastic sticks but exists in Croatia companies that are producing precisely such sustainable plastic bags produced from natural materials. So we are not talking about that any branch of the economy would be endangered already through this innovative proposal, we are opening up the possibility and space for innovative solutions for new industries, and even those that actually exist in Croatia, and thus we have missed or missed the chance to present ourselves to the whole EU and the European market, in fact, that we are a country that takes care of our environment and that it creates space for an innovative and new industry and that it is actually benefiting this European market.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186669	Thank you for your response. Next replica, dear colleague Marko Vedligaj, here's a colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186670	Thank you, Vice President. Well, here's a colleague, something of poor quality, something that, I'll say, is briefly used, which is uncontrollably shared and which has great damage to the environment, should certainly try to legally limit or ban it, and I think that this bill is definitely going in that direction. I am sorry that the government does not recognise the good proposals, the constructive proposals made by the opposition, I will say that some local self-governments have recognised this problem and have decided at least to limit the use of plastics in their city administrations, in their businesses and institutions, so perhaps the government could learn something from local self-government regardless of who managed these local self-governments and unfortunately what you said, we have one chaos in the waste management system where this belongs, here recently the Constitutional Court also made a decision that the regulation on municipal waste management is also unconstitutional. So when we look at it all, unfortunately we're not going in the right direction.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186671	Thank you. Next replica, dear colleague Sabina Vosovac, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186672	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Zmajlović, you have at least received the government's testimony because you are one of the creators of this law on behalf of the SDP club, on some of our laws until today, let's say the Law on Medical Interruption of Pregnancy, the government has not been entitled to or manifested. But unfortunately the answer to this law is no. I really don't understand what kind of problem the Government has with environmental protection and also a contribution to protecting and protecting the environment by eliminating single plastic products such as plastic bags. You said well, these are really topics where we don't need to be politicized, you said that we should agree on this as a society, no, we need to unite on this, and we will certainly unite, but unfortunately when we are ordered by the EU in 4.5 years, imagine by adopting this law, how many environments we would save both human lives and health threats, to adopt this today, and not in 4.5 years.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186673	Thank you. Answer, Comrade Zmajlović.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186674	Thank you very much. Well, fellow Glasovac, not only did the government give an opinion, the government explained in its proposal, in its opinion that it could not support this proposal for reasons why the ministry was preparing a new proposal. I'd like to remind all the MPs here that this proposal was sent to the procedure five months ago. So then I said when I refer the proposal to the procedure that I would be happy if the government really started to change and accept these proposals that were included in this amendment to the law because that would mean, firstly, to reach some agreement as a society. But unfortunately, five months later, we still don't have a new law on sustainable waste management, and I can only doubt that this government opinion is sincere. I can only doubt it because, according to the legislative plan, the new law should already be in public debate, so it's already late and I'm afraid there won't even be a choice. [[Invader Brkić: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186675	Next replica, dear colleague of Anka Dark-Taritash, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186676	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Parliament. Unlike fellow Djijic, who is surprised that the government did not recognize it, I would be surprised if you got a positive opinion, I would be surprised if you came to another reading, it would be a surprise in this House if we had a constructive proposal of opposition, if the government said, look, they gave something, let's show good will. What is a surprise to me is that our Prime Minister Plenkovic is standing neatly next to Mrs. Plenkovic. Ursula von der Leyen and the orderly story of climate change, and Croatia is one of the 3 EU member states that has no adaptation strategy, the fact is that it has come to the Parliament. Therefore, this is an amendment to the law that Croatia should have an opportunity when the EU presidency, here, we will not wait for the directive, to commit, to wait for July 2021, we are leaving now. And right, the real story would be if the ministry, along with the proposer, said, fix that, in the end line, to amend and bring amending and supplementing the law. [[Invader Brkić: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186677	Answer, dear colleague Zmajlović.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186678	Thank you very much. Well, colleagues, Mrak-Taritash. Not only is Prime Minister Plenkovic standing next to the chairman of the commission and talking about New Dealu and actually supporting the new EU Commission policy. In fact, in this whole story, it should blush, blush for one reason simply, because in Croatia it holds a low-carbon development strategy in a drawer for 4 years. So it shows that this whole story of Croatia's support for all European policies that are related to environmental protection and the fight against climate change, the transformation of the economy, that it's just a folic and pose because we here in Croatia don't see a real desire to move. How can you talk about it, so at the end of your term that you're going to do something, you have 4 years in the drawer of a strategy that's been done multi-sectorally 7 years before that, you haven't done anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186679	Thank you. Does the committee reporter want to take my word for it? No, I don't. A representative of the government, too. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the GLAS Representatives Club, a respected colleague, Anka Mrak-Taritash. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186680	Thank you, well-respected vice president of HS, the distinguished secretary of state with the co-worker. My colleagues and colleagues. Proposers. We have a debate in late hours, which is already the usual proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Sustainable Waste Management Act. So, it's already common for opposition proposals to come in late hours, it's already common for opposition proposals, and regardless of that, even when they're very, very gentle, when we're all aware that they'd be some sort of step and something, as first they're at the debate in the late hours because then somehow there's less attention, and secondly, no opposition request has come to another reading, so the first reading ends in the drawer. This is about a proposal that, in some country which, not only declares itself to adapt to climate change but also indeed, would be expected to, let's say, be the proposer who is from the opposition along with the rest of the ministry sitting down and put out some kind of proposal that would be acceptable. Otherwise, when you solve a problem, you have two ways. One way to solve it systematically, and that's fine, you go with a systematic analysis of everything else and you systematically get to it. Or you say, okay, let's systematically go our separate ways, now let's solve some individual problems at this point, now and now. Climate change has been given a happy place in Croatia as well. Unlike some other countries that have really been talking about this for a long time, we started out in public, in political life talking about it and good to talk about it. He says we're like, so we're a small country. There are 4 million of us, and each of us doing something in our lives, in our own worldview in terms of adaptation, that means that it's 4 million times small, we get to some serious number, and we need to think about it that way. This is the moment Croatia holds the rotating EU presidency. I have to admit, I'm proud of it, regardless, we didn't get something here, we just came in line, but it's good that Croatia as the youngest member shows that it can. But it would be good if it weren't just a dead letter on paper, it would be good if it wasn't a play, it would be good if we did something about it. We sent a letter from GLAS directly to the president of HS and so on, to Prime Minister Plenkovic that during which the presidency is to show that it really is being taken care of, to get out of all the catering facilities that are in the Assembly, which have governments and institutions of spoons, plastic spoons, plastic glasses, straws, so we can do it without law, we can do it without anything. So this is some kind of message that Croatia is sending that it is truly aware of the problems of climate change and that it is aware that it really wants to deal with this problem. Unfortunately, I have to admit, I'd be very surprised if that were the case. We have another short period, because if that were the case then it would prove that we are still being taken care of, and it's not just that now I'm talking to everyone about adapting to climate change, but that's how we really live and that's what we really think about doing. I come to, of course, the proposal of this law, if it were really so then it wouldn't be this easy response from the government. We've already learned when we get the answer, we don't get every time it's true, but when we get the answer that those answers are at least you feel bad. You get the answer to say nomotechnically something is misspelled. You get the answer that here we have to wait a little longer, but that's a proposal to get the documents, so here's the thing. You get the answer, yes, and even in the debate that they're aware of the problems, but when there's a vote, the vote is different. I have to admit the digression is on this topic, I am a representative at the same time and in the City Assembly, we are also an opposition there, we have had three proposals in the City Assembly where Mr Bandic Milan and his coalition junior partner, HDZ, have passed us three opposition proposals. We had three conclusions and with the office making certain remarks and we said it was acceptable, it's important to pass it and do it and three proposals have passed. Of course, when the first one passed, we were very happy and satisfied, but then we saw that what we're saying still has an effect. In the assembly, such winds do not blow, such winds do not come. So, when you go with a proposal to amend and supplement a law that is relatively simple, which could give a good picture to Croatia, that's not how it works. So, what we know, we know that on 5 June 2019, the adopted Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the reduction of the impact of plastic products on the environment, which should be prohibited in the EU Member States by the end of 2021. such single plastic products. July 2021 is an obligation if I am not wrong, and I am not wrong to introduce it into legislation, and now instead of telling us during the EU Presidency here we have put it into legislation, here we have that from all state bodies we have to cancel it, we are going to start with, we are going to wait the last day, the last day, the last date, then we will bring it quickly and, of course, we will always be at the beginning. If that's how we do it, we'll always be at the beginning, someone will always skip us and be at the beginning. When we get a chance, we don't take that chance. Equally, we all love and Green Deal doesn't have a dilemma at all, we're all full of mouths and we're all gonna be full of Green Deals, the jobs that are talking about a billion Euros, I don't even know how to write it, let alone what else is going to be secured for it all together, but we act like it's meant for someone else and that's the jobs that are someone else's. So these are new types of jobs, new types of occupations, new species that will be in the economy. And instead of encouraging it all together, to be the first to come there and say, here we are ready with some laws, projects, strategies, action plans, we sit neatly, we spin our thumbs and watch someone else do it. I never understood it, and I'll never understand it. What we are talking about in general is now the EU has already started to talk about the climate crisis. Those solutions can't be fast, they won't be simple, they won't be cheap, but they will be. Those who come first will, of course, be given more opportunities and more opportunities at all. So, regarding the Green Deal, we have a new way of functioning the economy, a new way of operating traffic, and now we get one amendment and an addition to the law where the very easy government says we're going systematically. I understand everything, but systematically it's a good model, but why not go with this, improve that something, show the idea. Unfortunately, it does not live in this Croatian Parliament. It may be that we actually get there for a while and then someone will be surprised. It will be a surprise when some proposal of opposition is accepted. We at the GLAS Club, of course, are very clear on this one proposal. We, personally, think that sometimes when it takes a lot of time to fix the system, you go with some changes and supplements where you show politics, desire, will, direction of the state in some new ways. If something had to be changed in this proposal, I am sure that the Proposer would be absolutely ready to change something on condition that it goes on. Imagine some new winds that would say, here was one proposal for opposition, so the opposition and ruling sits down and we agree and we have something, so we have one law that is related to the crisis that is related to climate change, with adaptation to climate change, but unfortunately that's not going to be the case. One of the good wills, indeed, and a good indicator would also be for us, as our colleague said when he gave the replica, some units of local self-government had already done it, the trade chains are already doing it, and I don't see why this one small will wouldn't be in the Croatian Parliament so that we can remove plastic spoons, remove those plastic straws, remove plastic glasses and in all institutions in such a way as to show during the presidency that we did something. Unfortunately, I have, I'm no longer surprised, I'm surprised when something is good, I'm not surprised when something's wrong, nor will this law go into another reading, and it would be a great surprise for some shift to be made and if some letter sent by an opposition club to the president of HS would be brought to his attention or the Prime Minister's attention offered so that if the prime minister said, here, we'd do it, we wouldn't even brag about it and say, "It's good." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186681	Thank you. We're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, dear colleague Davor Loncar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186682	Thank you, Vice President. As far as the proposal for a law amending the Sustainable Waste Management Act is concerned, we are witnessing more and more environmental pollution that... plastic packaging, which is present in everyday use due to its functionality. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] One of the biggest problems that is the use of plastic materials is those that are degradable and are not reusable for recycling. EU member states will have to reduce the use of plastic cutlery and drinking lessons by 50% by 25 years. They are also required to collect 90% of the plastic drinking bottles separately by that year and ensure that they consist of 35% of recycled material. For more than 12 years in Croatia, there has been a deposit system of reimbursement, for glass, PET and other packagings that Europe is promoting in its plastic waste directives. It is about packaging that citizens can return to the store and receive a return of 0.50 kn per unit of packaging. For a rounded packaging waste management system it is necessary to encourage innovation and the use of new technologies that facilitate the recycling and use of plastics and create values, new values and new... use. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] A good example is IKEA, which has been operating through a sustainable development strategy for 10 years. They're currently using about 92% of the waste that generates, while only a small part is being deposited on dumps. Also, at this point in product making, they use about 60% of the materials that are recycled, and the plan is to make it 100% by the age of 30. The adoption of this law is not necessary, given that the said provision has already been transposed into the Regulation on packaging and packaging of waste, as prescribed in Art. 3. The Regulation which has been in force since 2017. Any further measures relating to the use of bags may be regulated by the Regulation. Speaking of the use of bags, it is important to mention that the reduction of consumption measures started at the beginning of last year. The example of such a reduction practice is already seen in Kaufland’s trade or trade chain, which started this year with its shops, abolished the sale of plastic bags. It is important to note that, from 1 January 2019, the application of a reduction in the consumption of bags began and... charge as well as education of citizens on the harmfulness of using plastic bags. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The ministry will also have information on the implementation of these measures next year and will be able to decide on a possible permanent ban on the use of plastic bags in the area of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of the data collected. This proposal also includes a directive to reduce the impact of certain plastic products on the environment. It promotes circular approaches favouring sustainable non-toxic products that can be reused in re-use systems over single-use products, which primarily seek to reduce the amount of waste generated. By retaining both the value of products and materials and creating less waste, the Union's economy can become more competitive and resilient, reducing pressure on valuable resources and the environment. Finally, it should be said that an increasing number of poor countries are demanding rich Western states to take over the waste they have sent for recycling, and it is often... plastics and other junk. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Rich countries send recycling garbage abroad because it doesn't cost them much, and it's possible that they meet their recycling plans and thus reduce the dumps within their borders. With developing countries taking over their garbage, it was a valuable source of income that is now being denied because it creates huge difficulties and environmental problems. The world's largest source of plastic waste is the EU, and the United States is taking first place on a scale of individual exporting countries. However, out of the total plastic produced, only a fraction is recycled. Non-recyclable materials are often illegally burned, dumped on dumps, rivers, seas, thus endangering the environment and human health. Proposed by law, as well as... which national regulations will comply with the remaining provisions of the Directive. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The HDZ Club cannot accept the proposed amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186683	Thank you. Next debate on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, dear colleague Nenad Stazic, please welcome colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186684	Thank you, dear Vice President. This law follows the EU directive, and this Directive will also have to be followed by the government's law. But this one refuses. This law has nothing to do with ideology, but absolutely nothing to do with party belongings. This law speaks of ours. The government's refusal to act without any reasonable, acceptable explanation speaks to the amount of hypocrites when the government says they care about this country and talk about patriotism. Well, it's not patriotic to put your hand on your heart when you play anthem. It's more patriotic to take care of your country. It would be patriotic to accept this bill. That would speak of one seriousness of this government, and this refusal speaks only of hypocrisy. Member States The government has changed this law twice. Twice. She had a chance to bring this change into her law changes, but she didn't. She promised, at the 9th month she promised to pass a law like this, no sign of such a law. Okay, I understand the government doesn't arrive now, it doesn't arrive, they have to deal with the masseuses, the brother-killing war within the HDZ over the election of the summit, so they don't have to worry about the Croatian sea. I, I expect, expect that the Government will now propose to amend the text of the anthem, so that we will not sing the blue seas to the world to tell our people the Croats love, but to tell the blue sea to tell the world that the plastic Croat loves, because plastic loves this government. To us, the sea is one of the most important resources, we are a tourist country, we live on it, and now the government refuses and actually testifies to one stupidity that does not accept something that helps this country and protects our seas. In Croatia, 23947 tonnes of plastic bags are produced annually. According to a UN study in the world, 5 billion plastic bags are spent per year, most of which end up in the sea. By 2050. There will be more plastics in the sea than fish if we continue like this. The average man spends about 1000 plastic bags per year, and average one plastic bag is used for 12 minutes, but it takes 1000.g. To break it down is made of polyethylene, it's an oil derivation. What's the damage to the environment? More than a million birds and about 100,000 sea mammals die every year because of plastic bags, these are whales, dolphins, turtles who replace plastic bags for food, so either eat them or get caught in plastic bags and guess, die in the worst troubles. Because of the Atlantic, there, somewhere between Virginia and Cuba, it's called Great Atlantic Garbage Patch, covered in plastic is this one pile of surfaces maybe like France, there swimming 26 million pieces of plastic per km square. So the scales are terrible. Only 1% of plastic bags are recycled. The global consumption of plastic bags is between 500 and 100 billion pieces, and now look, if only every fifth citizen in the Republic of Croatia would stop using plastic bags, just one fifth, the next generation would find 199 billion 588 million 400 thousand plastic bags less in nature. The world's public was crushed in 2000. when 6m2 of plastic was found in the stomach of a whale. These marine animals, namely the plastic substitute for jellyfish, then they eat them and die in the worst troubles. In the last 10 years. It's produced more plastic than the entire century, 8 million tons of plastic ends up in the sea. I said it takes 1,000 years. to break down a plastic bag, but it never actually decomposes, it goes into myrcoplastics, so into nanoplastics with pieces that are less than 100 nanometers, which is, that is, it's about the size of a algae cell and as such enters all the marine organisms, in the fish that are now known as healthy food, fish, fish will be poison, and the fish of the Adriatic Sea thanks to the government of Mr. Plenkovic because what they care about our resources, what they care about the Republic, they have to deal with the Masons. The SDP is now proposing in this proposal a general ban on the marketing of plastic bags, a general ban, what is wrong with cardboard bags, paper bags, what is wrong with canvas bags? Well, I remember, you used to get that paper scissors in the store, and that's where you brought the stuff home or you brought a canvas bag with you. And why does it bother the government to do it again so quickly, that's what I'd like to find out. Here's the HDZ representative, there's a talk about Kaufland, Ikea, about what, he talked about the dangers of plastics, and then he finally said but because there's a danger of plastic HDZ rejects this bill, it's the cleverness of the HDZ, so you have to be extremely talented to be able to do that. So this is about, what products, not just plastic bags, but these plastic ear stickes, and why couldn't they be wooden, why couldn't they be wooden? Why can't a plastic glass be paper, that cardboard glass, so what bothers the government is that, they, they really want it to be plastic. I don't know if it might be business related to someone, is it someone from the government who has some kind of financial interest or has shares in what kind of factory these plastic knives, forks, straws, plates and glasses are produced? Well, I wouldn't be surprised if it were discovered one day that they discovered those houses that you forgot to report because I didn't see rationally for another reason, and I don't think anyone in Croatia sees it. So a large amount of this plastic ends in the marine environment, and the policy of protecting the marine environment, marine biodiversity, fish resources in the European seas is an extremely important topic for the EU. And now, for six months, we have been chairing the EU Council, and instead of predicating ourselves, to be an example to others, to say that they say, "Let's look up to Croatia, one smart country, one smart government that accepts these good laws, even if we come from opposition and go to protect our seas, realizing that the sea isn't just our own, the sea is our own world, and now instead of being an example, no, the government is moving away from it, it's running away from it, it's giving some excess explanations and it's actually being extremely irresponsible. This stops being a conversation about plastics, it stops, this after the government's opinion, this reasoning of the HDZ club, this debate, this becomes a story of patriotism or high treason.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186685	Thank you. Next debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, a respected colleague, Slaven Dobrović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186686	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President of the Parliament, I welcome the representatives of the ministry and, of course, all colleagues and colleagues. There's no representative of the motionor. Yes, you are? All right, he's gone fast. A ban on plastic bags and other disposable products, does that make sense? Surely it makes sense, and it's part of the solution because plastic today presents a significant problem. Plastics is normally material with exceptional properties and we cannot safely imagine simple life, it has entered all spheres of our life and plastic is inevitable as material with that we must remind ourselves that plastic is not one unique material but is a series of polymers that are used, which have unique properties and practically all present in our lives. What's the matter with plastic? So, the problem with plastics is that plastic products are extremely light, cheap, available and that many of them come very quickly as waste because it's time to use, and there are these plastic bags especially present, very short. And if that didn't cost us anything in the purchase then in the consciousness of the average consumer it means very little at the end of the use and people of plastic bags and various plastic objects are easily solved by rejecting them into nature. A colleague, Stazic, mentioned a thousand years for decomposition, but well later he got a little bit straightened out, it's not a decomposition, it's a fragmentation. We call decommissioning a circulation so it's part of the circulation of substances, such as paper or apple scale, any biodegradable waste case in nature when we reject it into the forest it will decompose and it will disappear as such or become part of the circulation of substances in nature. With plastics it never happens but it is especially in the water environment, the sea, so the plastics under the influence of salt, sun, electricity, motions are shrinking, and these are smaller pieces, so the smaller and ultimately micro nano plastics are present in the marine environment, and we don't really know what it means for the world today, it's just being revealed. So the scientific papers that write about it are practically published on a daily basis. The last scientific research project done on the Adriatic is a European project, I think it is called “DefisherGear” and their results were presented at one of the thematic sessions i.e. Summary. I think it was there that between 3 and 27% of the fish are in their digestive system, so inhale plastics in the Adriatic. Plastics, of course, are indigestionable, indegradable, there are no enzymes that decompose it and it goes out or out, but there are already scientific papers that reveal that a piece of plastic has been found to have passed into the fissure, entered the bloodstream and stuck at the entrance, I don't know in some organ, fish species. So we can expect that he will finally come into the tissue that we eat and the circle is definitely closing. The man has been irresponsiblely dealing with waste for decades, we've been putting plastics all over the place, the third world practically when he came in to buy and to have and use a large amount of cheap goods he started and tossing that stuff around and in the oceans he reaches a lot of plastics and that's one problem, the question is how he'll get rid of it. So this proposal can be a safe part of the solution because let's remember whenever we throw a plastic bag or let it fly to the sea, so it doesn't matter, so it's a huge difference between accidentally flying a paper towel into the sea or throwing away the rest of some kind of food, so it's going to go away. Plastics will never disappear. And so I repeat, we're just revealing all the consequences of this act. So all the opportunities to change our behavior urgently, with plastics, are safe space of action that move away products of one-time character and go into more permanent products, more permanent objects, so that plastic bag, it doesn't have to be that's not biodegradable plastics, but plastic bags, you mention bags even though they're more bags than bags are good and we know that many use, it's something that can replace that habit that's not good for us to easily get plastic bags everywhere. Biodegradable plastics, it's no longer polymer plastics and properties have been significantly changed. I think it's an idea to install biodegradability as a property that will help, and if this is unresponsibly thrown into the environment, it's not a good way to go because it significantly degrades many quality properties of plastic. So fossil plastic is irreplaceable, but okay can be some short-term bags, but if you accidentally get wet, it's possible that you'll fall apart in use. In principle, it is part of the same possible solution, but quite certain pushing into the use, production and use of more durable products than plastics is a safe solution. We'll probably have to ban plastic bags for sure because it's not gonna happen spontaneously. But is this the main and only waste management in Croatia? I don't think so, I don't think so because in Croatia, waste management happens worse. For example, Croatia still does not put the first priority of establishing an ecological infrastructure that could help and that plastics that are collected and also these bags, to go back to the industry, means separate collection of varieties, without that there is no success in recycling plastics. With plastics is a particular and larger problem because it is not enough to separate it at communal level but to include a circular economy, so it is a new sector that will be taken from communal plastics that will be clean from impurity, matter, food, however, that needs to be worked very hard to compete with grenades imported when produced by any plastic object. But the space is huge because for producing a plastic PET bottle there are five grenades that are the quality of food pay probably expensive, I don't know it can be 8.9, 10,000 kuna per tonne. Therefore, if the collection system is clean and if for a few hundred kunas or even zero is taken from the communals some new activity economic, it is a circular economy de facto, it can and has space to pay its workers, spend electricity, invest in machines because the difference between the entrances is separately collected waste plastics and exits it is a regrant or a recycling that can only now go back to manufacturers because it must be placed in those small machines and do anything. We miss that, however, it is not a priority of the ministry and the Government for funding because we also see ourselves as sorting plants, and now we also see composts or composts setting very strict conditions for proving that they do not exist for the centres at all because we choose to invest 500 million kunas in a waste management centre that you imagine where you place, at 300, 400 altitudes, 1000 meters from the border from BiH, Lucino Radzolje. No roads, no electricity, no water, 500 million kuna total cost, 50km from Dubrovnik, the place where there is the most waste. Instead of financing for 10 times less money right next to Dubrovnik, Grabovac is under emergency sorting, composting, reuse center, so that part of the infrastructure that only allows for the rise of recycling rates is the only one. This is the part of the infrastructure that Prelog puts to 70%, Krk to 55 or 56% without it going but repeats the error of Mariščina and Kaštion, Mariščina, who is also the promoter. I contacted him from the university offering help in changing the concept of the waste management system, but unfortunately he did not have a Zmajlović minister then to move away from the clientelistic direction that was established in 2005 and 2007, which is building large, expensive, bulky customereletic centres such as here are the first two Marišćina and Kastijun who have problems. Here we see that now in Kastion it will need to add 20 million kunas in order to fix something a little bit, but nothing will be fixed because the solution is something else, so a separate collection that does not have to be complicated or must be in vessels of this or that, nor must be defined at the state level, it must be allowed for the local self-government unit to organise how they know best and what they can, to bring their money down from therefore state and of course from European funds and to seek efficiency, everything else is a bargaining of clientelistic elites that have spent almost all the money from the operational environmental protection programme, 2007-2013. and now they would also very much spend all 500 million euros almost during this operational period, so until 2020. So, yes, this may be part of the solution, certainly and yes, but the main problem is not to build a system that is logical and respects common senses and the hierarchy of waste management, which is to maximise reuse, let's say that we have some elements here because they're wanted. Sometimes these producers stop producing bags of 25 microns, sometimes produce bags of 300 microns that last for a few years, no, and then be ready to accept them after they're licked and peeled, let them produce new ones after 5, 6 years. That would be a lot of solutions that I would like to see and, of course, stand up for. You wouldn't last any longer. I've done us all a minute, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186687	I thank my esteemed colleague Dobrovic. We move on to individual debates, dear colleague Sasa Djujic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186688	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So today the whole world, and in particular the EU, recognises the problem of environmental protection, the problem of plastics above all, and moves towards all forces and activities in the fight against this problem, and on this trail, the SDP Representatives' Club has proposed this legal solution since the government in this mandate did not get it in spite of the announcements, and I'm really surprised that the government rejected this bill, I'm really surprised even though colleague Mrak-Taritash is surprised that I'm surprised, but here there is no single reason why this solution is being rejected, and there are no ideological, secular issues here, there should be no politicisation, this is a healthy, logical, rational solution. When here's my colleague Loncar from HDZ, when he spoke on behalf of the HDZ Club of Representatives, all these problems you listed and what you said, I expected you to say behind that here's the HDZ club, heartily supporting this bill, but here, you surprised me again. So I really don't get it because there isn't any, that's the theme in the world today top and number one. In the world, in the UN, in the EU. On the one hand, it is already said, we are chairing the EU now for the first 6 months, our prime minister is going to Brussels and there is boasting green trade, we support it, we take pictures, these are the priorities of this government and then a constructive and good proposal comes and the government says it can't. And it's not for me, I don't get it. On the other hand, we are the land of the sea, we have the beautiful Adriatic Sea, we have the fish in that sea, and the biggest problem of plastic is that it ends in the sea and we all eat that plastic and instead of being the first and to say we can't, we'll keep our seas, we'll keep our children's future, we don't support it, here's what's not clear to me. And how unsuspecting and illogical the reluctance is that today and here, the government's representatives did not look back orally on this bill. Here's colleague Horvat, I'd like to hear what you think about this law, to defend that the government doesn't support this. I know you can't do that because you know this is a good proposal and you personally support it, and that's why you keep quiet here, and if you're gonna sit here for two hours while we're talking to the government as representatives of the government and just keep quiet and not say what you think, then you shouldn't sit there or sit there, I'm telling you honestly, you're wasting your time because I'd like to hear your opinion. No, no, I mean, here's the thing. [[Upadica Brkic: Coliga Djujic, I would ask you nicely, do not address the government's representatives as such.]] No, not absolutely, but I'm just talking about the message, so the message from the government's representative can't defend it indefensibly. [[Intruder Brkic: It is their right to debate or not to debate.]] Here's how I read that they use their rights because they know that this bill is good. How is my colleague Horvat going to make a proposal here now, here's who of the HDZ colleagues? Plastics in the sea, ecology, concerns of the future and the world, and we do not support this proposal and now what is most tragic, so when the EU announced in the future a plan for a complete ban on plastic products, young innovators from Croatia have found a solution for replacing plastic with environmentally acceptable materials. From Croatia, so our people. On the other hand, we can be the first country to introduce it, no, we will now reject it then the European Commission will give some kind of directive in a year, 2, 3 or 5, and then we will introduce it here as P.Z.E. The obligation is here and we need to comply with Europe, with the whole world, we are introducing it instead of being the first. And I really don't know what the reason is because this is the argument that the government has given since 1.1.2019 has taken some measures, so we'll see the effects of this year or in a year the effects of that, and then we'll think about some steps or the government is preparing a new law, it can't be an explanation for anything. Here's what goes in the first reading, until the second reading you have a proposal, you have the possibility that you representatives from the Government say fix this, here's these amendments, here's those amendments, finally, sign the bill and sign up the Government of the Republic of Croatia, propose it tomorrow, we'll support it, here. I can't see, it's really illogical. I am very interested in what my colleagues from HDZ will say behind me and how they will defend the rejection of this law, here is my colleague, Boric, who is on Lopar, one beautiful Croatian island eats fish there every day, because this is what we Primors do and we enjoy these fruits of the sea, how you will now explain to me that this law is not right and that this law should not be supported, here is what I am looking forward to and waiting for that argument, you will certainly start to talk about how it was 5-6.g. all of it was bad and how the SDP didn't bring it and how it didn't work, and that's it, that's your pattern, but here's the SDP's proposal, and you're offering a good proposal, so you support it in the interest, so I'm sure your islanders there will support you on Rab, surely all the people there will clap and say here's Boric bravo, and perhaps support it, here I expect the support of a large number of HDZ representatives, so HDZ's representatives had the strength to say some Istanbul convention, not because they didn't agree with the government's policy. I believe that the majority, especially the representatives of the sea, are supporting this proposal to ban plastic products precisely to preserve our pearl of the Adriatic Sea and to resist this Pharaoh's boot of Andrej Plenkovic and to vote for this proposal, here I believe that this will be so, especially now at this moment of this release from these Pharaohs as it is spoken, it will no longer be in HDZ for two days, so now it is an opportunity for you to support it or at least in the second reading I expect a quick turn of this in HDZ regarding the support of this law. Anyway, this is a good proposal and I don't see any reason why you won't support it, so I'm going to say it 10 times, and I'm going to say it over and over again because it's really not clear to me, so let me get this straight, so just try to explain it somehow. So, the whole world sees it and the Republic of Croatia instead of being that leader, to be the first, we don't always have to listen to the second code is the second smarter than we are, and it's not, and here are the gentlemen of the HDZ you have the opportunity to support this bill, the government gentlemen have until the second reading you have the opportunity to, I don't know, fix, make suggestions, we'll consider it all, we'll probably adopt and we'll talk about this proposal one more time. But this, I appeal to you because this is really one thing that has nothing to do with ideology, nothing else, think about it, support it, copy it, suggest it, it doesn't matter, but let's ban plastics and don't have to tell examples of Kaufland that's a good example, but that's an individual decision, most people, most companies in the Republic still use that plastic, don't follow Kaufland's example, I hope that's going to follow and unfortunately that country has to respond a lot and it can't and it's not enough, it's a small pebble in the protection of the environment and our sea, but at least it's some symbolic message and we're going to go in that direction and you all know it's good and you know that you're going to get over the party discipline, and I'll say it again and I'll appeal to you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186689	I'd like to thank my colleague, Djujic. Replica esteemed colleague Slaven Dobrović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186690	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Djujic, I have nothing against your exposure, just you, I'd like to draw your attention to one thing. So, the organic or non-organic label should not be glued to all materials like plastic is not ecological, something else is ecological, but with some. Once-used plastics can certainly easily bear the label not ecologically, but many other products if they were considered in their interaction with the environment then they would have an advantage over other materials, only so much that, because then you sound too populist and not necessarily because the fight against single plastic packaging is good and legitimate and desirable.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186691	Thank you. The answer of my colleague, Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186692	Thank you for the correction, and I agree with you fellow Dobrović, so this law is just well worked out, I think, I think, I think it's well worked out, so exactly separates that part of a renewable or one-time, one-time product from plastics ending in the environment, I think, let's say these bottles are a well-solved model, means through the buyback in essence with this fee, well okay, but I think it's a lot less of these plastic bottles today in, in, in, in nature, but that's an example of how plastic can be used if it's collected back on some things and this renewable that I don't talk about it. So there are examples, there are examples of this and especially today and in the centers, but here's the absurd again, so come buy fruit at the shopping center then if you take that ordinary bag, that, you can take that whole roll and put it in your pocket and take it home, but they also have bio bags that are decomposable, which then you have to pay extra, which nobody uses because it costs, I don't know, 20-30 lip, that's these things, but if you would ban these, and these prescribed by who's mandatory, that's one of the solution models.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186693	Thank you. We move on to the next debate, dear colleague Josip Boric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186694	Thank you very much, Vice President. So here's something I want to say about the law on sustainable waste management that the SDP Representatives Club has prepared for us to discuss, because yet this debate ultimately comes down to talking about plastic lovers who are outside of the SDP and those who hate plastics, and they're basically in the SDP, and there's no way to imagine some Nenado Stazic holding in his hand a plastic glass with a gemist or maybe with coffee, and maybe he drinks it somewhere, and then he doesn't have to put it there, not as a responsible eco-aware representative or, I don't know, maybe you can't imagine a member of the SDP who's going to stand somewhere on the highway somewhere in some kind of rest area, etc. Drink coffee with which the plastic spoon will be served he prefers to mix it with or so on, rather than use one plastic one-time spoon, and probably also in the assembly, not let anyone bring them anything about plastics, they simply can't stand it, they're a club of lovers of all the organic products and, as far as we've heard, paper bags. There's no way you can't meet them when they go to the store or so that they don't necessarily take this other one that can be saved anywhere, it's bigger, more resistant and you'll never see them with some plastic bag to walk anywhere in any city because I say those are lovers of all the organic products and, of course, the paper, and that's the debate, patriots who are against plastics and patriots who love plastics, so I've experienced it in one of the dramatic expressions of fellow Stazic. So I simply can't parise it, but here I'm going to try something and I'm going to say on this subject, since when we talk about the adoption of laws or debates like opposition proposals, we've already heard about dozens of times since we've been discussing these opposition proposals all the time, I remember the time where I'm an opposition representative, the HDZ Club had about 30 legislative proposals in that term, and at first we gave it right away when there was a problem of the Pelješko Bridge and one declaration about the Pelješko Bridge that we put on the agenda right away, and it's been four years, none of it's been discussed, none of which has been discussed, none of the HDZ law has been discussed. At that time, Mr. Stazic was chaired here, he was the vice president, and there was no way that any opposition proposal could ever come to the debate. It could have come to the agenda and waited neatly for the end of the term of office, thrown away, so recycled in the waste on the agenda. So we can tell who is listening to him or who is experiencing democracy in Croatia. So on these matters, about the laws being discussed and when they are being discussed, I don't think you should say anything from your own experience but to commend this majority that discusses almost all your legal proposals. As for the experience of the SDP in the management or management of waste management in the entire Republic of Croatia, it has been four years, I am sorry that there is no former minister who has remained remembered for where he moved, whether his cabinet had a shower or not, we have mostly brought only the Waste Management Act and nothing more after that, we have heard in some discussions that all sublegal acts were stored somewhere in the drawer, waiting for some new time to be passed, simply in 4 years none of that, in 2013, the law was passed, meaning the next 2 years nothing. Mostly, energy façades were negotiated, at least through the Environmental Protection Fund and there were about 50 million, and someone agreed to miss the number, no, so he arranged 500. It just added zero and a little bit more zero and some other power came and had to take care of it. Resuscitate, gentlemen, to resuscitate. These are the legacy of this eco-aware SDP that now resents this government for doing nothing about taking care of plastic bags. Nothing. We've heard it's a contribution to climate change, so it's been determined by Mrs. It's dark, and a colleague of mine has found that everything in the sea is basically full of plastics. I, who eat fish almost there, can't say that I've encountered any plastic spoons in any fish or larger or smaller but that there's probably something in the sea here and there that, especially if a net rises, etc., some kind of bag strays into it. But I'm more concerned about something else since we have a direct experience of managing the entire waste management system on an island like mine, so what have we done over the past four years and what has not been done in the past 15 years? That's what we could talk about. We had the same dump as in the past tense. Now we have succeeded with the help of a state that leaves the funds at large, the competitions that are outside, to build the CGOs, but they are not being built, now I think one, no, because the countys are not ready, those who should have prepared everything for 10 years to build, and there's a little bit of a problem. What's the problem? I live on the county that handled it. We've got CGO, but something's wrong. The mayor says here's the center, which I'll take, nice you take, it's just a problem for me, it's just a problem for me. We have a problem too, why? Because obviously something doesn't work there. He manages that center and that center as we hear it produce unpleasant smells, something's going on. What's he doing as mayor, I don't know from the SDP? It's mostly someone else's fault. It's someone else's fault. We're doing it in two years, and the loading station and recycling, now we're in a dump rescue, these days they'll be on their way. We're going to do everything that the law and state allowed us to do with our opportunities and co-financing. At that moment, the biggest problem we have remains, and these are the prices of the transportation of that selected waste. We can only get 50 kn for a pure ton of pure cardboard today and we still have to pay for it. Everything else we pay for transport and 1000 or 2000 kn for glass, for paper that is not clean cardboard, for plastics that is the most expensive 2000 tonnes, the one that takes it at least pays for transport, etc., we come to costs since we don't have that end-user who would buy it, recycle it or turn it into something new, and that country has to do me the biggest step. He has to find a way because it becomes a burden to all the communal societies and then he spills over to the citizens. What did the mayor announce to us? So far, we have paid 470 kn ton carried by the Eko Plus trailer from the island of Rab in Mariščin, now it has announced a gathering of 1200 kn, only 3 times more. For what? Because someone runs that center, doesn't run that business, or would rather get rid of it independently of politics, we said this wasn't politics, but we heard there are patriots who love plastics and patriots who are against that plastic. But it's not politics, it's politics, gentlemen. And that's being, that's the point of the problem. How to prevent a rise in the price of a ton or how to make that tone as low as possible? Because if that £470 is mixed waste, then all those that cost us 2000 will throw everything into a mixed communal, do you understand what I'm saying? Is that cheaper for you then? If we're going to watch the business of utility companies, but also the payment of accounts. This country from the government and also the next period, I expect a step forward to see what it will do. That fund should certainly be helped, and I believe it will, given the resources that we now have at our disposal. And now that all possible tenders are being opened and I believe that we will first and restore what we need, and communal infrastructure in terms of the vehicle, all the necessary equipment, etc., but also that end is waiting for us. It's those tones that are still out there, and it's about the most plastic, the glass still kind of goes, but I say again it costs us, the cardboard goes, even something we can charge for, but more or less we pay for it and of course there's now huge waste. Large waste that will not be driven without reducing its volume first, that is what awaits this state and the story of how all bags or 23,000 tons of plastic bags in the sea are not standing. There's obviously something and it's primarily more or less the responsibility of those who wear it. If it were forbidden to use those bags, I don't know what would happen. If not prohibited and not prohibited then a cardboard bag may be introduced. Here's everyone saying an example, so let's get everyone in there to defend them. It says here the government, there's a rule that allows it, so let it happen. What now is the law that someone has said is that the greater concern of the SDP on waste management in the Republic of Croatia, the act of patriotism that is presented in this way, dramatically in order to say, no, hearty, I say, I can't imagine any SDP with a glass of plastic in my hand, and from now on, I won't ever, at all, just paper, cardboard box or cardboard bag and cardboard glass, that's the mark of the SDP today.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186695	Thank you. We have replicas, dear colleague Sasa Djujic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186696	Here's my colleague, Boric, you've rocked me to question whether this law is good. Here's what you've convinced me. You've even outdone the government in your own way. Now, I really know that this law is wrong because the SDPs are walking around with plastic bags when they come from Konzum, which on some kind of Rape fire, say someone drinks the gemist out of a plastic glass and they serve it there, so you can't drink out of your hand, which is where they serve it, and that's the problem, and that's why I want to ban it. Because I don't know, they mix the highway with a plastic spoon, that's why you won't accept this law. Well, if you know you're on the highway, there's wooden spoons, they're not plastic, no more, find me a pump that has a plastic spoon. Here's my stuff, but basically what attracted me the most? When you said that the former minister would remain remembered for where he moved, which building, yes, yes, that's what you said in the shower he had in his office, and by which your minister who extended that space to a three-times higher price than the former minister remains? Now that's okay. So when HDZ's minister is three times A higher price inside that's okay but the ex who came in there three times smaller, then that's no good, [[Invader Brkić: Thank you.]] Can you explain that to me, please? [[Invader Brkić: A colleague.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186697	Comrade Djujic, I would ask you nicely, Be careful, I understand your temperament, but watch your time. [[Intruder Djujic: Excuse me, I don't do this otherwise.]] Here you go, fellow Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186698	Comrade Djujic, I'll explain now. So you're okay, you've adjusted my speech to yourself, so I've said it and I repeat it means you can't meet a member of the SDP anymore to hold something plastic in his hand, it's just from now on forbidden, as far as I can tell. So the first time I meet someone, I don't know what to do. Should I rip off that bag he's carrying, warn him that he'll be suspended as several members suspended by your boss and still come to work neatly, or tell him that he didn't listen to a fellow Stazic when he was bringing in some kind of patriotic declaration about SDP taking care of the Croatian environment by taking care of one-time plastics that, like, add up in thousands of tons, means it's just some sort of summary of our debate today. You will probably, if you are ever in power, probably immediately pass that law as you have brought all those others you announced in 2010 and 2011, so you came to power, you have not brought any, you probably would not have brought any of this under any changed conditions but, of course, a good story.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186699	Thank you. Next replica, dear colleague Arsen Bauk, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186700	Comrade Boric, I would like to say something about these discussions of opposition laws. First, if Mr. Bulj hadn't run and then got us all up to fight all night to change our Rules of Procedure, we wouldn't even be discussing this, they'd take our suggestions in a plastic bag and throw them somewhere. ... Yes, yes, so we've given a few hundred amendments, and then in the end this amendment of the Rules of Procedure was brought, and we voted for it, most of the members of the SDP club, and then Mr. Bulj unfairly accused us of agreeing with you, but this is proof that it was for both of us to benefit, here and there. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] As for the 7th meeting of the Assembly and the proposal of the HDZ Representatives Club when we were in power, therefore, the total e-DoC of the Croatian Parliament records 14 of your proposals, of which 3.4 appointments and 2.3 of what we have proposed for the EU referendum together, there are only 5 of your proposals that are discussed, 1 you have withdrawn and 2 are not discussed. Here's the list right over here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186701	Thank you. I'd like to ask you nicely. Comrade Boric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186702	Thank you very much. My colleague Bauk always tries to be convincing and then he looks at it in a hurry and then like he's always there. We know that fellow Stazic here chaired, many times it was empty here, but we discussed the island, as I recall, it didn't matter if the proposer was here, it didn't propose here, it just went with some kind of momentum. Every day you didn't even know what the law was going to be, Mr. Leko would come and he'd say today we'd discuss it and we'd almost move on. A lot of things have changed, you have to admit that your laws are being discussed, it doesn't matter when, afternoon or morning, the Rules of Procedure allows it, but what we're discussing right now is not just for the sake of a Rules of Procedure, but probably for some of the norms we've set up, I hope it never changes. So we like to hear what you're saying, but these stories of yours that you're some big eco-aware MPs, so it's got nothing to do with anything, gentlemen dear, with nothing, it's some kind of fiction that you want any kind of effort going on around that waste, leading to this level that nothing matters, i.e. It's all nonsense to you, and then here's the salvation of Croatia in terms of waste management.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186703	Thank you. Next replica, dear colleague Slaven Dobrović, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186704	Thank you very much. Dear colleague, when you have instructed what you have done on your island, then you have left something out, or at least that's your plan. Namely, the disposal site, the loading station and the centre that was built that's not enough because you need to have some composting there, you have to have some sorting room. It's your battle for the circular economy that the president of the government himself has accepted. Because the center, you say 470 to 1200, it won't, it's not the end, it might also be 2,000 kuna per tonne, and as far as the current price for separate collection of plastics where they take 2,000 kuna per tonne, it's the result of a market riot that's also the result of government's indemnity because there's a new activity that doesn't exist. We've got a big surplus of material and the price goes well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186705	Thank you. Answer, fellow Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186706	Thank you very much. Kolega Dobrovic, I purposely mentioned the centre because it is owned by the county, the county in which the government of SDP manages it and it is no problem to offer municipal companies an increase of 3 times, so it is no problem if it is SDP. If something happens here, at least in my mind, I think it's going to be more expensive, so it's all already a problem. That's what I'm talking about. So, and if anyone manages there, doesn't manage, we have an example of the island of Krk, now we and Cres and Lošinj, we all shut down dumps, we drive neatly to Mariščina, neatly, we pay it, we settle it, we just grow costs for triple. If I've just taken 800 tons and paid, I don't know, 350,000 kunas, now I'm going to have to think about a million kunas just costing me the transportation of mixed communal to that center but they manage it and that's the problem, which is what they're experiencing in a way that anyone's problem is just not theirs, you understand? Both the states and the government and the minister, but it's not the SDP and the mayor.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186707	Thank you. Next replica, dear colleague Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186708	Thank you very much. He would agree with you, fellow Boris, in this part of the CGO, you mentioned the problem of Marišćina, the smell, the impatience of which people have been protesting for years and warn that, in essence, this CGO is essentially a dump of municipal mixed or any waste uncontrollable, and I believe that what is happening in the Republic of Croatia, in your county as well as in other counties of Biljan Donji in Zadar County, my Dalmatia, Bikarac in Sibenik-Kninska, Lečevica in Split-Dalmatia and now in Dubrovnik-Neretvanska, these CGOs will also cause huge damage to the management, there will be billions, essentially what was done on Krk, the management, circular management of the waste which is a project and our colleague Slaven Dobrović, that this should be an example of one of waste management and sustainable development. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186709	Thank you. Answer, fellow Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186710	Thank you very much. Comrade Bulj, we have good examples of waste management and those people need to be listened to. I think that this story about the regulation was also on the initiative and those people who still understood what was happening and well that it was put on the side and let it be seen what needs to be fixed that it works no matter what I say we all individually think about how I don't know, taking care of the waste in Zagreb, in any place or in any county. This problem is above politics, and it is not a question of patriotism, as some here say, but of reason and good conversation for those who are professional and understand what needs to be done. And I hope that we find that part in front of us at some time to really create a system that will be sustainable and that won't be as expensive as it is now, and it needs to be solved, and that the government will have to solve every future minister, and no one can get away from it because the trash is a daily policy, that is. It happens daily and it needs to be taken care of daily and I believe it will happen because it has to happen.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186711	Thank you. Next replica, dear colleague Davor Lonchar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186712	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Boric, I spoke the name of the club earlier, but I must point out something because I was encouraged by my colleagues in the opposition. It's about the following, in your speech you pointed out the cost of exporting municipal and large waste. As long as the central state is not involved in co-financing of the exports of one and other types of waste, we will not reach the level of waste collection as the laws actually provide. I have personally been in several waste collection centres all over Europe and just in a way co-financing by the central state achieves results that the waste that is in the premises is as small as possible and that the best way to collect and recycle, even process and send what Prof. Dobrović, to certain cement plants for energy production. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186713	Thank you. Answer, fellow Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186714	Thank you very much. Comrade Loncar, in order for something to be co-financed in this case by the fund, then you must have the finance that makes it possible. Col. Dobrovic was a minister for several months, and he knows what he inherited when he inherited the fund and will again be inherited when it was passed on, these were hundreds of millions of kunas of inherited debt that someone had to settle because he was the result of the former government's commodity which had played out with what was only interesting to her, which were energy, efficient, energy-efficient facades that were agreed with 10 times more than was allowed, and that is something to be said and now that fund has the means and I believe that it will happen, it will not be possible to handle waste, drive him from great distances to the centres if it is not possible to obtain co-financing from the state. We built it into the Island Act and I expect it to be implemented, the Island Act. Somewhere in some islands, we want it for everyone because it's simply suffocating the utility companies and then spilling over to the citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186715	Thank you, fellow Boric. Let's move on to the next debate, dear colleague Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186716	Thank you very much. I will at first say that I will support this bill because simply and this one, such proposals are not a big solution but give the possibility, not a possibility, but simply shows that the fight and through this way can be fought against these plastic bags, against the single use of these bags that cause huge damage to nature and the environment, they are not decomposable or when they are broken down i.e. When they fall apart, they are also dangerous to the health of flora and fauna mainly in the waters. in our seas, whether or not, we can show this example, I have no problem in supporting this bill, and I think it is commendable to talk in this way and to give these proposals to the public because I can simply see that the prime minister is also emphasising the fight for climate change, the fight for sustainable development and the environment, it is emphasized and now we are preside over the EU, as circular and management is not due to any success but simply the EU Presidency at the moment, so it would be possible to accept this proposal no matter what political option it comes from, because above all, there would have to be the interest of sustainable development and survival of people and flora and fauna in our area but I would be here a little bit and expand the subject, in fact, I would talk about this waste management, and mainly about the CGO, in fact, in terms of waste management. I mentioned the island of Krk earlier and Slave Dobrović is a man who, one of them, is his project in which he participated, i.e. The project he was building was a way of managing waste. And it is well mentioned here by the CGOs, especially fellow Boric where he said that it does not work on Mariščina, that all the pilate hands are being washed, and we also see that instead of seeing that we have made a mistake and that we are going the wrong direction in the management of the waste, that it is not sustainable development, we are going further, here only in my Dalmatia in 4 counties, a billion kunas will go to the CGOs which are harmful projects and for drinking water issues and I do not see at all the question of drinking water, because on Lečevica it is working, here in Biljani Donji, here it is near here I am sorry that it is not but from the SDDS's secretary, I am sorry that Milorad Pupovac is not here so that it defends Biljani Donji di will be doing this waste disposal, we have Black Hill there which is not yet solved, which is also the ruling of the European court that it is harmful to the Black Mountains that we have a dangerous government through the dangerous number. And then when I go to Zrmanja, I see what happens when I see what happens in Krka, when I see the harmful projects happening on Cetina, they push, when I see Lečevica, people pay on Lečevica, people who know what will happen from the profession that will end up in springs, sources of drinking water, that will end that waste and that is not the way of waste management. There are composites, there are sorters, compos, there are recycling yards, all this can be done for 10 times less money than for CGOs that will become a long-term problem, a long-term problem and damage will cause huge damage. In my Split-Dalmatia County, 30 million kunas have been spent in Lečevica so far for whom? For the employees. Absolutely nothing moved. And now we have a problem with Vrgorac having all these bags of nylon, and bags and talking about this plastic being transported from Vrgorac to Sinj, from the same sanitary conditions in Vrgorac, a dump as in Sinj with old trucks going 120 km on the highway, endangering the environment and traffic, old diesel cars, these trucks that are not suitable for such transport, drop bags,... There's, of course, a fast road A1, our road, this state road A1, highway and all that ends di? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In the sea. And three times more expensive is the Vrgorčana transport, so it must be paid by the citizens of Vrgorec and they continue to pursue it in Sinj. You remembered Mojka, you remembered the Sinjskg fields, the Cetina River, you'd like to pursue it. And of course we stopped it, I stood in front of the truck and I'll do it again. And still your minister, the distinguished secretary, doesn't withdraw that decision along with the inspectorate, he's still sticking to the drunk float and the harmful decisions that will cause huge damage to the Vrgorcans and mainly to environmental damage, to the air with these old trucks and to the pockets of the people. So you better put that money there in the compost, in the sorters because through the composts would help that part, the decomposable waste would end up in the Sinj field, in the Vrgoska field, vineyards or the like. However... What's important is that he boasted that he had closed for 27 weeks. 26 CGOs, this is important in front of the EU to say and what the sanitary conditions are catastrophic and what the CGOs are catastrophic projects, harmful to the environment and not for sustainable development, that nobody cares. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Nobody cares if they're flying through Mariščina right now and they're going to be on Lečevica, so on my Mojnka or downstairs in other dumps, when I see those bags of seagull flying around with a bag around their necks, then I think it's a fact. It's easy for us if we don't get serious, if they're not professionally done like Slaven Dobrović did with professor. Uršića and all those people who worked here, like on the island of Krk, it seems to me in Osijek to move something, something in Međimurje, so that these things move. If we can't focus all of this on protecting our nature and the goal is as these governments say, the objectives are climate governments, stopping climate change, protecting the environment, I think, and nothing is being done but continuing with the same direction that is greater harm than I don't know, huge damage. And now there's a key question here. What is the reason not to support these laws, i.e. This amendment to the law prohibiting the disposable use of plastic bags? What's the reason? Ideologically? What's the SDP, since I'm here this morning, let's just say that he's had a little bit of a beef with Stazic, Djujic or someone or you, it doesn't matter at all. It's important here that we talk about our country and the fight against environmental destruction and the preservation of our flora and fauna mostly our waters, seas and everything, and there we simply have to find a model to be complex. Well, at least around these things because I breathe the same air, we eat the same fish, the same sea, only if you only think about fish and builds and what fish eats down, this one, this one, and how to eat it, and what wine to love it with, but it will come to an end if we behave like this. So I see no problem at all, and here there should be no ideologies and these differences that in some democratic society and show us our differences, in these things, environmental, things of better life, sustainable development, creating better living conditions for our citizens, preserving the sea and living beings in the sea, I mean, I don't see any problem that might be a problem not to support this law regardless of what I'm going to say to a fellow dragonlovic that maybe he wasn't the best minister or I don't know, someone is going to tell my colleague that he wasn't the best, and that's the least important in this case. If the ideologies here share us party uniforms, then we humans are not absolute folk representatives, in everything else they can accept in terms of some things, of course it will be different, the diversity is good, the statement of opinion is good but about these things we would have to seek a compromise and, above all, on sustainable development and waste management. When I see Plitvice, when I remember going through that open sewer or down to my colleague Sabina in the back of Zadar, it's Black Hill when I look, when I look at all the harmful projects that have been pushed along the river Cetina, when I saw in Zrmanja that lagoon and this mule that's poured out, what it looks like and the fish, the mule is otherwise dangerous, it goes into the fish, of course, into their digestive tract, and eventually we, in human organisms, will end up. If we can't meet here together, around this green story, about the story of the future of our Republic of Croatia, which is still preserved regardless of the large ecological wounds we have, due to the lack of concern mainly of pests within the Ministry of the Environment who instead of resuscitating Zrmanja as they were, as they were, I know I had a problem in my neighborhood, those who ran those environmental funds, picked up those money in their pocket and didn't invest in, say, Zrmanja, river, Krka, lagoons as well. We have a huge problem if we're not complicated about these things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186717	Thank you. We have several replicas, dear colleague Slaven Dobrović, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186718	Thank you very much. Dear counterpart Bulj, you are wondering why unreasonable policies are being run, illogical, strange, so because the sector is actually well run by the clientele and therefore the CGO projects are intact, practically intact. Imagine you for the city of Zagreb that 30 million kuna is here when, for a year and a half days it has been signed, for project and study documentation, 30 million kuna. Well, for that money, I won't say half, but a good part of the system right now. So while they were making documentation, the system could be established, it's similar elsewhere. 500 million kuna Dubrovnik, 330 Lečevica, 280 Zadar. Where, who, what, where, where? So the clientele feeds on all those who make it possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186719	I thank my colleague Dobrović. Answer me, Comrade Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186720	Well, you'd agree, I know he ran it seems to me to be the Youtho Environmental Fund, and it's huge money, and it's supposed to take care of certain things like solving mule problems and lagoon problems down there with Zrmanja or other harmful projects or a project down cost in the Long War, ferolegure factories, but these money's been spent and they're gone? Nothing's been solved, we still have that problem. It means the money's been scared. They stole the money and didn't save it for what was intended. So we have a problem with what vermin should be worried about in the environment, essentially, that money has gone to waste, and interest groups. And now we have a huge problem, we have a problem that we've put the Republic of Croatia at risk on sustainable development, and now if we're not in agreement now, if we're now on the basis of who suggested SDP, MOST, HDZ, I have no idea who doesn't, if that's how we talk, then there's no end, and I believe that one day someone will think of it as soon as possible, that this problem has to be solved legally as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186721	Thank you. Next replica, esteemed colleague Davor Lonchar, here's your colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186722	Comrade Bulj, I've had a chance to see several centers across Europe. And in part, I agree with Professor... Well done, however, the way they're put together and we can go here to Celje, you'll see what it's really about. It's about a center that has all this stuff that Professor. Dobrović, and the compost, and the recycling yard and the sortery. And after that process, the municipal waste grinds into a fraction and behind that fraction is driven by the same fraction by trucks for cement production plants. So, you don't need to be afraid of the center, whether they're expensive, whether they're expensive, it's hard to talk at this point but for long-term planning, believe that they don't need to be afraid, here.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186723	Thank you. Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186724	Thank you very much. Sortery, recycling courtyards, waste separation, all of this is very important, however... Burning something, I think you said you were chasing, I don't know which way, no matter, as energy, no matter but what's the problem, the problem is that right now, here's the word for Lečevica. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] 30 million kunas already in 2009 said Ante Sanader, the mayor at the time, that the opening of works in Lečevica would be on the recycling yard where also the speleologists say the caves that are connected deeply to various sources, streams, and whatever the case, we have a problem with the Adriatic, we have a problem with Split which now has no water often when it rains but they continue to push the project. So sustainable development, composts solve farmers, what is produced in Split can end up in my Sun field in farmers or Zadar can be in the flats but we don't think that way. ... It's a profit. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186725	Thank you. The next replica, dear colleague Sasa Djujic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186726	Comrade Bulj, in your debate, you have asked yourself a question which is why this law is not accepted and you are simply wondering, you do not understand why this is not accepted. There are various reasons, you know, people have different reasons. Here's my colleague, Boric, who doesn't accept this law because SDPs wear plastic bags when they go to the store or they won't accept this law because the SDPs when they stand on the highway have a plastic spoon so they mix coffee or drink from plastic glasses of wine or gemist, here, probably now, because you support this problem because I don't know, you may be drinking Dalmatian wine out of a plastic glass in Sinjska. Some have different reasons, here you have to ask yourself how convincing these reasons are now, as far as they are not, I must admit that these reasons of my fellow Members Boric are very firm and it is hard for me to even ask myself a question that maybe this law is really not so good.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186727	Thank you. Answer me, Comrade Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186728	Well, fellow Djujic, he would agree, basically we're all sinful and we're all probably, not being treated by our own house, our own household best to the environment, and first of all, no one should throw stone at anyone here, but it's incomprehensible, really reason why we don't support something that's good for nature. I can't figure it out no matter because now I can say I'm carrying two bags, you three plastic bags, we can talk about it. So I think the time should come for us to focus on these key things, mainly about environmental, sustainable development, that it's high time to protect this resource of ours. We do great in our sea, and it means flora and fauna, and drinking water damage because if we just continue to behave like this, SDP, HDZ, MOST, these, these, they, we can differ in many things, and that's okay, I don't have any problem with it, but around these things I can't figure out why and in Sinjska Alca I believe we'll be from the blue baccare, the wood, that we'll drink wine domestically from Sinj and here, I invite you all to come to the alka. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186729	Thank you. Final word on behalf of the Government, Mr. Mile Horvat's esteemed secretary of state, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186730	Honorable MPs and distinguished MPs. We absolutely support certain attitudes related to the fear or signalling of the dangers posed in the environment by the disposal, the rejection of these bags of specially light single-use bags, but we also appreciate this initiative to make these changes under the Waste Management Act, but what is here according to our vision and this is confirmed through the Government's decision. So, we have the government's decision or the government's opinion which is also the opinion of the Ministry of Environmental Protection, so through these additions, you have only envisaged that you have only partially taken over the provisions of Directive 904 on the reduction of the impact of certain plastic products on the environment, or so on. the sub-directories without providing information, nor did you provide for which other national regulations will be applied to take over and the remaining provisions of the directive, because this sub-directory is a complex matter, so it is not three articles, as we have tried to make these amendments and additions here, it complexly foresees and solves the problem related to the reduction of consumption, requirements regarding the production, composition and labelling of the co-producers, as well as the way in which it solves the extended responsibility of the manufacturer, which is a complex instrument. Therefore, we did not accept this proposal, while at the same time we are in the making of a new, completely new text of the Waste Management Act, it will most likely by the end of the 3rd, at the beginning of the 4th month. be in the first reading, so public debate will pass, it will implement this directive with all its elements. By art. The 17th Directive which defines the deadlines of application or transposition into national legislation, we are not in any time delay, is our obligation to implement it by the deadline of 3 July 2021, we will, of course, do so before and of course, decide whether we will go with the bans of very lightweight plastics one-time long before this deadline is provided for by the directive. So the thing is, we're in preparation, and we're probably going to get out with all these solutions real quick, and with a whole new proposal for the Waste Management Act. And just one digression, so there's always talk here about CGOs with a large questionnaire of their importance and importance and functioning, I have to remind you, this government hasn't built Mariščina or Kastijun, this government hasn't signed the financing of either Biljan Gornji or Bikarac, this government just recently signed the financing of Babina up, Lečevica and Dubrovnik according to this, we're not the ones who financed, it's done the previous ministry as the previous ministry has brought the waste management plan that we now have to implement and act on the content of the waste management plan. It wasn't brought by this ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186731	Thank you. A colleague named Djujic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. ... Thank you very much. [[/Intruder Djujic, you don't understand.]] We have a replica, dear colleague Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186732	Secretary Horvat, Secretary of State, you say the directives are not all respected, i.e. they have not been introduced into this amendment to the law, the proposal of a colleague from the SDP. Well, you could have done it through the amendment, you'd probably accept it as a proposal, and it wouldn't have been a problem if you'd just said what you just said, of course, so that's the problem, but you're strictly and you're just refusing, and that's the key problem. And not only do you refuse, but simply this government now, this government is now calling for sustainable development, it calls for a waste management plan that it does not respect, and that is Vrgorac-Sinj's proof because in the same sanitary conditions is the dump of Sinj as Vrgorac, but it means exclusively that you did not respect any point before it means order but you came here to show yourself to the EU that you did something, you shut down 27 dumps without prior preparation or anything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186733	Thank you. Mr. Horvath, answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186734	Dear Representative Bulj, therefore Directive 904/2019 on the reduction of the impact of certain plastic products on the environment must be fully installed and implemented in national legislation and it will be, in this proposal, not. So we're going to do it in a way that we're going to pass a new waste management law, he's going to be very quick at a public hearing and we expect, as I said, that he in the first reading here before you will be expecting somewhere in 4 months.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186735	Thank you for your response to the Secretary of State. On behalf of the promoter, dear colleague Nenad Stazic, please welcome your colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186736	Thank you, dear Vice President. I thank all those who took part in the debate on this legislative proposal, and I thank the Government representative, Mr Horvat, who has now said in the final word that he personally supports the initiative of this law but the government cannot accept the law because the government will solve this more complexly through the whole waste management law. This proposal has been in the process for several months now, and the government has had the opportunity to invite a representative of the SDP Club, the minister, the vice president of the government, I don't know who, and look, you've made an interesting and very good proposal in the procedure, let's, together with the government, make a bill, and then when we do, we adopt that law, and the government will in 4 months. to make a whole law in which we will be incorporated and this proposal. That would show the maturity of the government. And we would if you had invited us, we would have accepted it by hand, and today we wouldn't have had to have such a debate because that debate would probably be much, much more pleasant. I'd rather you said here, the law is good but the government won't accept it because it's proposed by the SDP, there. ... Then I'd be quieter because the government won't accept it because it's being proposed by the SDP, so we're used to it, and it doesn't offend us too much. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But the fact that the government refuses this law worries us, worries that the government doesn't care about the protection of the sea at all, and certainly Mr. Horvat could have found another solution. Thank you, Mrs. President. Dark Taritate of the Voice, she said a very significant sentence here. Perhaps the most significant in this debate. We need to work together on topics like this, not only do we have to work together, we need to be unique. If there are topics that we can be unique about, then that's this topic. It's not directed against anyone, it protects our country and protects people's health, so how can someone be against it? So how? I also thank my colleague, Miri Bulju, who will support it with good arguments, I hope the Most will do so, we have not heard explicitly from Mr Dobrovic, whether the whole party will support it, I would be happy to support it. Mr. Dobrović here was the least talked about this law. but he was speaking in general about waste management, recycling yards etc., it's not the subject of this law, that if we wanted to, then we would have made such a bill but we wanted to act as quickly as possible, to protect the sea from plastic bags, not just the sea, and the ground, and rivers, and lakes. That was the intensity of this law. What about the presentation of Mr. Lonchar, representative of HDZ? What do you say? A man can't find a grudge in any of this law because if he could, he would find it. His colleagues couldn't help him because if they could, they would help him. But he talks here for 15 minutes about all the harmful aspects of plastic and the use of plastic bags and then says but HDZ won't because it's so good, HDZ won't support it. Well, I don't know when I heard a more pointless discussion, and I've been here 20 years in the Parliament. Now, Mr. Boric, he's gone, he said the SDP rejected HDZ's legal proposals, so we did because they were bad. That's why we refused them, if they were good, they wouldn't be rejected. As now some of the bad ones the government gives as the one on the census today, the number of live births, so why would they need the number of live births in the census, so they have it in the wombs of the born, so they'll take the data there, and they'll have it, but they'll have the wrong data here, and they put the law in the emergency procedure, and now on Friday, it's going to be voted out and so silly, so stupid as it is, that people are laughing. Mr. Boric also doesn't know, he can't dispute the law either, so he talks about everything and everything, about Minister Zmajlovic, about a building that his minister extended the contract three times more expensive than the one who signed Zmajlović, three times more expensive, so I don't know, so I'm in his place, so I wouldn't mention it, so I wouldn't take it in my mouth, so I don't know what Boris is, does he think we're total idiots that we're not going to give it back to him? And who says that, that's the funniest thing, he expects the SDPs not to wear plastic bags now. Well, that's not the intensity of this law because if we wanted to, we would have proposed a law banning SDPs from carrying plastic bags, that's exactly what they'd call it. But the intensity of this law is environmental protection, not the behavior of the SDPs. Why did I speak of patriotism, and why do I really feel that accepting or not accepting this law is an expression of patriotism? We are talking about the protection of the sea here, so we have the sea in the anthem, though Slaviček fixed Mihanović but let him fix it, well that he fixed it because we can really be proud of our sea and now we want to protect it and we don't find that government support and support probably some clubs because if HDZ were left alone, then this law would be passed. This is about our future, our children's future, their health. So how can you be indifferent to that? And why be indifferent? Well, look, this has some economic effects, or it can. So we have a wood industry, instead of exporting logs, what are we doing? We could produce these items from wood, so when this European directive comes, when everyone in Europe has to stop using plastic products, that we have almost a wooden product. We can make paper out of wood, we can make paper glasses, paper plates. So instead of being ready to go ahead, no, we'll be the last. Well, I'm not surprised at Austria, I'm not surprised at Germany, I'm not surprised at Hungary for not rushing, so they don't have the seas, they have nothing to protect, even though it would be in their interest to protect us because they come to summer on our seas and bathe in it and eat our fish that will be poisoned. And look, the sea can't wait until HDZ comes to their senses. That's why we need to act now. The big HDZ will come to their senses, and they might come, maybe they won't come, who knows, who knows. So no, when I was talking about patriotism, it wasn't even an exaggeration, it wasn't even a figure of style. That's true, that's the naked truth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186737	Thank you, fellow Stazic. Replica, dear colleague of Branka Juričev Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186738	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, dear fellow Stazić, on many occasions you called your colleague Boric here, he just wanted to say when you want to protect the environment with this law, that when you fight so hard for a clean environment without plastics, then at least in your life you will all give up plastic glasses, spoons, bags, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186739	Thank you. Comrade Stazic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186740	Now I don't know why you as my colleague Boric's lawyer who left but that's exactly what I said in my closing statement. It's not the law that SDPs don't wear plastic bags, it's the law to protect the Adriatic Sea, so it's not at least hard to understand, so I thought Mr. Boric would even figure it out.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186741	I would like to thank my colleague Stazic for his reply. This is what we've exhausted all the debates. I'm closing the debate. I would like to thank the SDP and State Secretary, Mr. Milly Horvat, once again with my associate. We'll vote on this point when the conditions are met. Dear colleagues and colleagues, tomorrow we will continue to work at 9:30 p.m. with agenda item Final proposal of the Law on the Declaration of Vukovar as the site of a special homeland petite, second reading, P.Z. No. 808. Thank you very much and pleasantly for the rest of the day. SESSITION DISCONTINUED IN 19.20 HOURS
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-19-0.u186742	Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Sustainable Waste Management, first reading, P.Z. Number 752. The proposer is the SDP Representatives' Club, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. The Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Sustainable Waste Management Act is not adopted. Please, let's vote. I find that the majority of votes are 73 for and 1 abstention and 20 against the conclusion proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
